[{"Title":"A Must-See for All 20-Something Males","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"78 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let me preface this review by saying that this is my favorite film of all time.  I'm not saying it was the best, most artistic, original, or most innovative...but it is my favorite.  It's a movie about a 20-something man getting over a nasty break-up, living in Los Angeles.  Pretty simple stuff, but the honesty in the film is amazing.  This film boasts the most realistic, and interesting depictions of male friendship I've ever seen. Some might simply pawn this movie off as a buddy flick, but it goes so much deeper than that.  Mikey (Favreau) deals with insecurity, rejection, depression, an overwhelming feeling of inadequacy.  Something almost everyone can relate to.  And, as an audience member, you live and die with the poor guy.  The supporting cast is very strong, popping in and out as the assortment of friends populating Mikey's social life.  Each is trying, in his own way, to get their buddy out of his post-break up funk, which meet with varying degrees of success.  Swingers is chock full of laugh-out-loud moments, and oft-quoted lines (Our baby's all grows up!) that could very easily lead to repeated viewings of this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"69 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw that someone commented this is the perfect guy movie. I'd like to add that it's not just for guys. The characters in it are just as easy to relate to for girls. If you think girls don't pathetically chase after guys the same way the men of Swingers were going after girls, you need to get out more.(Not meant to be an insult.) My favorite character in it (though I love them all) is Rob. His insecurity is cute, but of course he's also a loyal friend. You can't beat that. And I love the goofy quote. Hi, Mom. I'm goofy. Send more money. That's great! This is one of those movies that I love to watch over and over again. I will never get sick of it. Plus my husband (then boyfriend) introduced me to it so of course I love it. He even picked me up from my classes once by yelling, Hey, do you know where all the high school girls hang out?? from across the street. This movie was incredibly funny and deserves a lot more praise than it gets.  "},{"Title":"As enjoyable as any film in recent memory.","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"55 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think a few of the readers who have commented on this film seem to be missing the point. While it can be said that this movie has no plot to speak of and no central point to it, my response is so what? Not every movie is made to teach you how to live your life. Some of us can watch a movie simply for the pure enjoyment of listening to characters interact. Swingers does a better job of achieving this than the majority of movies ever made. Anybody can make Godzilla or Independence Day, but it takes a truly special movie to become a cult hit with nothing more at it's disposal than no-name actors (at the time) and catchy dialogue. This movie was the springboard for virtually every actor in it, with each going on to more well known parts.Ok, enough preaching, pure and simple this movie is great. Vince Vaughn's character is one of the most likable characters you'll see in a movie. Even if you have nothing in common with someone like him, you can't help but like him. He's hilarious, smooth, and a loyal friend, and he has some of the most quotable lines in the movie. Everyone else on this site has quoted it time and again, so no need for me to, but let's just say it's funny stuff. John Favreau's character, Mikey, makes you laugh while at the same time wanting to slap him for being so stupid. There's so many funny scenes in this movie, I can't even begin to describe them. But the best by far always involve Vaughn, and the part where he's in the trailer describing his experience auditioning for a pilot is classic. You know he's feeding the girls a line the whole time, but it's so convincing and everyone is so in awe of him, it's hysterical. And when Mikey tries to act cool in front of the waitresses they meet, and fails to do so, only to see Trent tell them he's a producer and watch them swoon, I can't see how people don't find that funny.Anyways, if you haven't seen this movie yet, do yourself a favor and go rent it. The buildup offered on this site is only a fraction of what you'll actually get out of watching it. 10+/10 "},{"Title":"This place is dead anyway!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"45 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Money! Having lived the life of Mike, this movie hits home. No gig, no girl...no self esteem... Hangin with the boys. Who hasn't been there? A virtual plethora of one liners and quotes for guys (this is definitely a guy flick) in their 20's and 30's. Who hasn't left a relationship only to wallow in guilt and self doubt. Especially when you find out the ex is seeing someone else. Add to this the inability to land a decent paying gig, living alone in an unfamiliar town, and having bunch of condescending clowns as your support group and its no wonder that poor Mike was about to return to Queens with his tail between his legs.The best part of this film is the self transformation of Mike from the pitiful whiner holed up in his apartment for days after Sue tells him what a loser he is, to the Bear spotting the Bunny (literally) from the other side of the bar. Though Mike is constantly hearing and taking advise from his posse...ultimately, it is himself who shows that through his own experiences (ball room dance lessons with the ex) and his own strengths of honesty, charm and charisma that he proves he is indeed, money, and lands him the beautiful baby Lorraine. It is so on as the hilarious Trent (scene stealer Vince Vaughn) first spots the pensive conversation between Mike and Lorraine. (Heather Graham) The looks on Trent's and Sue's faces are priceless as they spy Mike and his beautiful baby working the dance floor to Big Bad Voodoo Daddy's Go Daddy O. I don't think I have ever seen Ms Graham look better that she does here...It didn't occur to me Mike replies to Trent in the final scene when asked why he didn't call the ex back. Amazing what a little confidence (and a dance with a hot blonde) can do for guy!This is a hilarious movie about real guys (you have known somebody like every character in this film!) set against the surreal back drop of the then-hip LA swing scene in the mid 90's doing what they do best....10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This movie is so money!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"37 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Before watching Swingers, I saw Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn paired off in Made.  Now, I didn't like Made all that much, but that didn't lower my expectations when watching Swingers.  I already knew the two actors had a great chemistry and as long as the script is well-written, they can really go places.  Swingers is a thoroughly original, wonderfully written comedy that's filled with big laughs.  Favreau and Vaughn's characters are like polar opposites, and it's hilarious to watch them argue.  The rest of the actors are also good (I think the black guy is the blind character from Becker--I could be wrong), but Vince Vaughn steals the show as the smooth-talking Trent.  We all have friends like Trent.  Some of us aspire to be like Trent.  Some of us are Trent.  I admit, I would compare myself more to Favreau's character--the more reserved, sensitive type.  But the great thing about a film like this is it's down to earth.  It's about everyday people in everyday situations, and I guarantee many of us can relate to the characters in Swingers in one way or another, just like how many of us relate to the characters on Seinfeld.  This isn't a plot-driven film, so you can call this a movie about nothing.  It's simply about a group of studs on the prowl, hitting the clubs and casinos, and sharing their philosophies on sex and dating.  There are several films that tried to replicate this format and failed (Whipped comes to mind).  If you're in the mood to laugh hysterically and be wildly entertained, Swingers is the movie for you.  About my only criticisms would be a few lame attempts to be stylish.  Come on, would 5 guys really drive in their own cars and follow each other all the way without anyone cutting them off? My score  8 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a hilarious film about nobodies claiming to be bigger than they ever will be!Doug Liman showed much promise and I'm more than sure that one day he will continue to make bigger budget films (Bourne Identity)Careers should also be good for the great Jon Favreau who is just a fantastically witty writer, Vince Vaughn who should get a headlining film and Ron Livingston who is still performing good roles.I love the script in this film, the language is unique and the scenarios are superb... the sad fact is that there are hundreds of guys like Trent, Mike, Rob & Sue (played by Patrick Van Horn)I urge everybody to watch this even though it might not be there cup of tea!9/10 "},{"Title":"Definitely worth checking out.","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The point is, Mike, that it all depends on how you look at it.Swingers is the quintessential guy movie. Not to say that a woman won't enjoy it, or that it's a stereotypical collection of all the things that men are supposed to love in movies, like a non-stop testosterone-fueled orgy of naked women, explosions, and violence. Nope, Swingers is the quintessential guy movie because almost every guy can relate to at least part of it at some time during his life. The uncertainty about your career, the lingering pain of losing a girlfriend you truly loved, the camaraderie (and annoyances) of your friends, the frustrating world of dating and the games and rules that come along with it, and the feeling of that moment when you finally realize that your life can go on without that other person it revolved around so long.The story focuses on Mike (Jon Favreau), an aspiring comedian in Los Angeles who has recently gone through a break-up with his long-term girlfriend back east, and his group of friends. Most of whom try to help Mike get over his break-up by meeting women in and around L.A. and Las Vegas. Especially his two best friends, ladies man Trent (Vince Vaughn) and Rob (Ron Livingston)  Most of the movie follows the group on their nightly romps through the city, or Mike as he struggles with the loss of the relationship that he was very much invested in.I enjoyed the casual conversations the guys had about women, video games, their job efforts, and other things. Swingers really nailed the dynamics of how guys act with each other.It's also pretty funny, though it's not a total comedy by any means. A lot of the humor derives from Mike's painful attempts to talk to women, after six long years off the market. There's a really hysterical sequence about Mike and a woman's answering machine later in the movie that will have you howling. I got the sense that Swingers is the kind of movie that holds up well after repeated viewings, and maybe even gets better. It's not amazing, or anything like that, but it is hard to imagine anyone (especially guys aged 20-29) not appreciating it. "},{"Title":"I wanted to call all of my friends after I first saw this film!","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I chanced upon Swigers one evening after reading an article on writer/star Jon Favreau, and trying to figure out which character he played in Friends (it's Pete Becker by the way); don't you love it when you uncover a gem. From the opening credits, set to Dean Martin crooning You're Nobody Until Somebody Loves You, I knew that this film was the very personification of cool, spawning one of the coolest characters in any film...ever, that being Trent Walker played by Vince Vaughn, with a swinging soundtrack and a real sense of fun which you don't often get in mainstream Hollywood; and this film is effortless in a way which Tarantino could only dream about.The story centres around Favreau's loser-in-love Mikey, trying to make a living as an actor in L.A after leaving his long-term girlfriend behind in New York. His best buddy, Trent, tries incessantly to get Mikey back 'into the game' so to speak; cue a trawl around L.A's hippest night-spots, some hilarious insight into dating rituals (when is it cool to call? 2 days?), and a trip to Las Vegas in which Trent tries to 'pull a Fredo' (bedding cocktail waitresses two at a time). The central duo are ably supported by a cast of lovable rogues, all intent on getting laid.Doug Liman directs in a laid-back manner, befitting of the film, and Favreau's script (based on Vaughn and himself) is full of witty insights and in-jokes, as well as enough movie references to keep everyone happy.Although the characters are almost impossibly cool, they never appear obnoxious due to the over-riding sense that they are just a bunch of lovable losers trying to con their way into the beds of L.A's female population; sometimes succeeding, sometimes not, and there is a certain sweetness added by Favreau's predicament. The pay-off is cool, Favreau finally 'getting digits' and we are left with a role-reversal between the two main protagonists as Trent makes a fool of himself with a woman in the closing scene.Altogether a classy, breezy, often hilarious film, a certain cult classic, and a fine addition to the date movie genre. "},{"Title":"This movie is money.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film could prove that nice guys don't finish last. A truly great and funny movie. The movie is basically about getting a nightlife, friendship and picking up girls. The movie centers on Mike (Jon Favreau). A very brave but not cocky young man who constantly dwells on his ex-girlfriend and unsuccessfully attempts to rekindle his love life. Trent (Vince Vaughn) is always there to give him encouragement and inspiration. In someways Trent is the star of this movie. He has a strong screen presence and is extremely funny.This movie teaches us to always double down on an eleven in black jack and how many days to wait before you call the girl for the first time. The greatest scene in this movie has to be when Trent and Sue are talking to Mike in the lounge and are trying to encourage Mike to ask a girl at the bar for her phone number. The big bad bear and little bunny analogy they use is hilarious.You have to feel happy for Mike when he meets Lorraine (Heather Graham) at the end of the movie. We see Trent and Sue watching their buddy in amazement but we know that they are truly proud of him. Mike really was money and he didn't even know it. "},{"Title":"Vegas Baby, Vegas!","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"21 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Upon hearing about this movie from friends, I was told that it was money. They were right. This is so money and they don't even know it. Entertaining comedy about letting go, and finding new romance and who your real friends are. Enough one-liners to quote for years, friends still quote it today! Nothing but beautiful babies, and a great upbeat soundtrack to get you dancing! "}{"Title":"Too cool for words","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"28 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers is just about the coolest film on the planet.  It's so laid back it's horizontal.  There aren't enough words in a thesaurus to describe how good this movie is!  Watch and enjoy.  The direction from Doug Liman is awesome and the acting matches.  It's funny but not in your face, it's hip but doesn't care and it just makes for a great picture.  Heather Graham looks gorgeous at the end as an added bonus for the guys too! "},{"Title":"Maybe back then..","Date":"28 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie has a laid back feeling. But that feeling is about all there is in the movie. At the beginning of the movie the story is intriguing and sets the viewer in a curious mood and leaves you there and slowly turns it into boredom. The dialogue is terrible and the silences the lead actor leaves in the conversations are are real turn down and slow the movie down unnecessarily. The characters feel shallow and you don't get to know them throughout the movie. From the shallow characters the movie does not develop in any way. At the end I was happy the movie ended. This is one of those movies that should have stayed in the nineties. Maybe it was good in that age but now it translates to a one and a half hour bore.p.s haven't laughed throughout the whole movie, it's not funny anymore just dramatic and sad "},{"Title":"Dispointing","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After hearing tons and tons of great reviews and recommendations i thought i would give this film a try, and seeing as Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau are, at the moment, some of the best comedy performers/directors in Hollywood, i was really waiting to be amazed by Swingers.All i can say is what a letdown! The first 20 minutes had me going as i was getting into the swing of things but the movie just appeared to drag on and on and half way through the movie i simply didn't care. The acting is spot-on and the chemistry between the two main characters is unique, what this film lacked was it's storyline.Swingers dragged on so much that i nearly drifted off into a deep sleep, and this was half 2 in the afternoon. I turned the film off after an hour, hugely disappointed and in disbelief that this was the film that made these two actors who they are today.Swingers may be fun for a lot of people but it certainly wasn't for me, and it has been one of the most disappointing films i have seen for a long time. "},{"Title":"Money Baby?  NOT!","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie aspires to be funny but misses the mark. The few really funny moments mired down in all of the pathetic lumberings of the main characters who are pretty much a bunch of losers.There is no apparent plot, which really keeps the pace of the film slow. And, as films are usually an escape for us, the events are too close to real life for comfort. The acting however, is superb, as the lead character Mike, pulls you down into his doldrums. Perhaps the plot of the film rings too true, as most of us can appreciate trying to get over a relationship, trying to 'swing' in the dating world, and getting along with your buds. Vince Vaugn certainly steals the show in this, as his character is the most interesting and animated.One is also preoccupied by the film apparently trying to be ambiguous as to the time it was taking place it. The characters drive old cars, wear 50's attire, speak in 50's lingo, but use digital answering machines, and a Playstation. One finds this to be more distracting to everything, rather that visually interesting. It also really highlights the fact that these characters are trying to be cool, something they are not.I was really expecting a comedy, but found it to be a drama with few funny moments. That was disappointing. However, the film features great acting, and a superb soundtrack. "},{"Title":"One of the most money movies ever!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Warning, may contain spoilers.First I feel compelled to agree with another reviewer in here that said that after this movie you may feel the urge to call your friends BABY or MONEY.  If that is the case, do not fret it, just go with the flow.  There are worse things that you could call them after certain movies, like Goodfellas or Reservoir Dogs.I think when I was about ten or twelve or fifteen, my wonder years, my only concern was to see the latest film by Spielberg or the latest sequel to First Blood and of course any number of one syllabled, one liner Arnold movies.  I only wanted to see films that I recognized.  When I was about fifteen, I dated a girl named Marnie, who worked at the local theater in Forest Glade in Windsor Ontario.  This was convenient because not only was she pretty but she could get me into movies for free.  This is the summer that I became quickly hooked on movies.  I loved them before, but now I was addicted.  The problem was, the only films I was privy to at the time were films like Rambo, Commando, Secret of My Success, Burgler and so on.  These were all films that I enjoyed thoroughly and they acted as somewhat of a catalyst for me to see some other films that perhaps normally I would avoid.  I can remember seeing David Lynch's Blue Velvet and then films like The River's Edge or even straight to video bombs like Zandalee.  It doesn't matter if these films were good or not, the point is that as I grew in age, my taste and insatiable hunger for films of all types grew.  I was finally ready to see the not so prime time films, the ones that may have a budget of less than $30 million.  I began to appreciate films like Boyz N The Hood, Clerks, Reservoir Dogs, El Mariachi and of course Swingers.  Swingers is a film that if you were pretty much into mainstream films ( in 1996 of course ), you may avoid.  There were no real stars in this film.  It was a film made for $200 000, and it didn't have explosions, car chases and a fight scene every five minutes.  That is why films like this make 4 million dollars at the box office, there is no mass appeal to them.  But when you can find a film like this on video, it makes you appreciate film for all the positive aspects of it.  It makes you appreciate the fact that there are people like Jon Favreau, Doug Liman and Vince Vaughn.  These are people that seem to love what they do and it is exemplified perfectly with Swingers.  That is not to say that you can't enjoy films like True Lies, Titanic, Forest Gump, Hannibal and any other big budgeted Hollywood film because you can, but sometimes the best films out there are films that may not find a true audience until it hits video.  Kevin Smith and Quentin Tarantino can lay claim to that fact and so does Doug Liman and Jon Favreau's Swingers.  This is one of the best films to come out of 1996 and it was made for 100 times less than Titanic.  Swingers is about breaking up, how hard it is to break up, films and the Hollywood scene, friendship, guys, swing dancing and so much more.  Jon Favreau plays Mikey, who has just moved out to California because his girlfriend of six years dumped him.  He has been single six months but still checks his messages every day to see if she has called.  He checks them so frequently that one morning while his friend Trent ( in a fantastic comedic performance by Vince Vaughn ) is in the middle of scoring with a cocktail waitress, he has to use the only phone available, the one in the bedroom.  This scene is perfect but the scene to follow is even better.  Mikey apologizes to Trent for ruining his good time and Trent replies,Don't worry about it Mikey.  I just wanted to get you out and show you a good time.or something to that effect.  Friendship is important to these cast of characters.  That is evident when Mikey's best friend Rob, who has also moved out to L.A. from New York, is the only one that Mikey really seems to be able to talk to.  They share some very real and passionate scenes together and their talks about making it in Hollywood and learning to let go of the past are some of the best written scenes in any film.  This is work similar to the candor and starkness of Smith and Tarantino.  While there are times in this film when you will laugh yourself silly because of the realistic absurdity of some of the characters, you will also find yourself in awe with some of the honesty.  Jon Favreau is a gifted writer and as they say, you should write with what you are familiar with.  Swingers exemplifies the fact that he is very familiar with trying to break into Hollywood and how it feels to have the love of your life break up with you.  There is also a very clever scene where he is talking to his ex and she tells him that she is dating a guy named Pierre.  Is he french, Mikey wonders out loud to her.  She tells him that he is not and I wonder if Favreau ever had that same question posed about himself with his last name.Not only is Swingers a wonderful film about the mysteries of women, it also has two incredible homages to Reservoir Dogs and Goodfellas and without even knowing it, Halloween as well ( Goodfellas and Halloween share a very similar shot.  Halloween at the beginning, Goodfellas in the restaurant ).And of course what has to be mentioned about this film is the language used by everybody.  Friends tell each other that they are gorgeous, that they are money and they refer to each other affectionately as baby.  It is so catchy that when I watched this with my fiancee she was in hysterics after five minutes and we were calling each other money for the next three days.Swingers is one of the best films of 1996.  People that hold the lofty position of revered film critics and Academy members should realize these sorts of facts.  While perhaps films similar to this will never see their reward at the box office, it will see new life on video and perhaps more importantly, it will thrill and invigorate a generation of movie fans.Your money baby!Swingers certainly is!10 out of 10- This is not just a hidden gem, it is an excellent film and props have to be sent out to Favreau for writing this and Liman for directing it.  I really wish that Favreau would write more films.  He has a gift.  Swingers is a perfect example of that gift.One last observation Check out the Sega hockey scene.  It is absolutely hilarious.  With all due respect to Gretzky, it is a treat to listen and watch someone make his head bleed ( in the game that is ).  "},{"Title":"I must have missed something here....","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...namely, the plot of this movie. What was this movie supposed to be about? Given the sensationalism that surrounds this film whenever it comes up in a conversation, I really expected to sit and be entertained and laugh hysterically. Neither happened. There's this little clique of guys that seem to know everyone in Hollywood (other aspiring actors and club bouncers) yet are unable to get employment. The group goes from party to club to apartment (where they call each other 'bitch' while playing video games). As a bonus for the moviegoer sitting through this wretch of a production, Mike, the main character, has this annoying emotional baggage he carries around, and it goes on and on and on ad nauseum. I finally reached my breaking point when he left his seventh message on the answering machine IN A ROW. I walked out on this movie, and I was on an airplane! Two thumbs down! "},{"Title":"boring...boring...boring","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this was a comedy?????? jon faverou at his self-important worst!   a big SO WHAT to this one!!!!!! I cant even come up with the required ten lines for this most forgetable enterprise Vince Vaughn needs to shut up Oh yeah referencing goodfellas and reservoir dogs Brilliant!! when you cant come up with your own ideas reference someone elses' blah blah blah "},{"Title":"Tedious and annoying","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really don't understand why so many people think this movie is fun. I thought it absolutely boring, annoying and utterly tedious. After plodding through the first 30 minutes or so I zapped to some of the remaining scenes in the hope to catch at least one funny moment, but nothing there, so I switched it off. I will now write this review and then erase it from my memory forever.This is not a film but an extended sitcom episode full of the worst of the genre. The only reason I give it more than 1 star is that Thank God at least they didn't include canned laughter.The characters are ultra boring, their conversations are empty, flat, repetitive, decidedly non-funny, and annoying to the point where you cover your ears to avoid screaming . There is no plot, no development, no humour whatsoever. Just to take the Vegas casino scene - it is so predictable, so obvious, so slow, so pathetic in its painful attempts to scream in our faces 'Look How Funny I Am!' that I felt personally insulted. And all that after first having to sit through an endless scene where the guys sit in the car on the road to Vegas and basically do nothing else but repeat the word 'Vegas' a million time in the same droning voices. Yeah, I really needed to see that.Is this humour? It feels more like a permanent hangover. Get a life.fG "},{"Title":"Wow, this is awful beyond belief.","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Actually this film scores a Zero. It's utter tripe, total excrement. There, I had to get that over and said.The only people I knew were Vince Vaughn and Heather Graham. I did know the guy playing Mike, but I never know his name. Isn't the black guy who didn't get the part in Deep Space Nine the same chap who plays the blind guy in the American sitcom Becker?.Basically this is a film with no plot, no storyline and nothing happening the whole time. Someone described it as a real guy movie? Dude, nothing happens in the film ever.We basically follow the life of a guy (who calls himself an actor and comedian but we never see any evidence of either) bitching about a relationship that ended over 6 months ago (get over it!), and his friends who just go out on the club and party scene to try and meet women - mostly with no intent to ever follow up.This film is described as an attempt to create a modern day film in the style of The Rat Pack. Which it doesn't do. The film really doesn't do anything. Even when Mike finally meets a girl in a bar (Heather Graham who looks stunning in the 1950's style hair, make-up and clothes) and his ex girlfriend rings him he ignores her to speak to Graham.We never find out what happens to either relationship as the film ends abruptly after a really awful scene in a diner where Vaughn thinks a women is coming on to him when she is actually entertaining her baby.There is no start, no middle and no end to this film. There is no film, but it still managed to go on for 1 hour and 45 minutes.Avoid this. I'd sooner see Best Defence or Ishtar, and they are bloody dire. So that's saying something. Even fans of Vaughn and Graham are advised to give this one a miss. How they ever sold the idea to a production studio or got anyone to finance this is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Way to go daddio","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Atlanta, Georgia- Been a while since I have seen this movie. But Swingers is a nostalgic look of the swing craze of the 1990s. With a young cast of Vince Vaughan and friends it is fun to watch. In this story Mike is seeking to connect with his lost love of New York after moving to Los Angeles to pursue his dreams. Meanwhile his best friend Trent is teaching him the dating hints and how to be money to those around him. Money is a term that describes a cool Cat. With these lessons learned he then takes on the starlets of Hollywood. With the back drop of the sounds of Big Vodoo Daddy in tow, you can't but love the night of swing dancing and how the world is full of possibility once you get comfortable in your own skin. Swingers is one cool movie Daddio. "}{"Title":"Vince Vaughn sets the bar high with his debut.","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here is a movie that almost made me feel sorry for actors, those poor guys who receive praise and adoration from total strangers, gifts and concessions from wealthy 'wellwishers', and tens of millions of dollars annually out of our collective pockets.But Swingers doesn't deal with your Tom Cruises or James Francos, it deals with guys n gals lured to Hollywood only to find they are better suited to roles as 'onlooker 3' and handing out flyers while dressed as a hamburger.Still, not my fault they ain't pretty enough&#x85; What Swingers did manage to do better than almost every film in recent memory is to coin an entire vernacular that sounded both fresh and ridiculous at the same time, guys calling people 'money' incessantly and sounding like they are chatting each other up instead of merely conversing should be silly &#x96; and is &#x96; but it never seemed cooler.Of course in reality such conversations can only be held with other people who have seen the movie (otherwise they think you're insane) and furthermore only for a day or two afterwards, which should be a word of warning to those who still say Ohhh behave! in their best lousy Austin Powers voice.Swingers follows a small group of aspiring wannabe hep-cat actors as they futilely traverse the LA landscape seeking work, recognition, networking contacts and of course fame. And beautiful babies. Always the beautiful babies. But as alluded to above, not everyone walks in as Brad Pitt the movie star, there are hurdles and roadblocks for the unprepared and ill equipped.The two primary leads are Mike (John Favreau) and Trent (Vince Vaughan), neither are 'IN', though both handle this reality in extremely different ways. Mike is convinced that he never will find the fame and recognition that he craves,Trent on the other hand simply acts like he already is famous and recognizable in a kind of 'live the questions and you will come into the answers' headscratcher.Mike is short, a little dumpy, generally self deprecating and softly spoken,Trent is tall, good looking, slick and constantly talking loudly to anyone who'll listen &#x96; even if they don't want to.The film essentially follows these two and a couple of hangers on through three nights. The first finds Mike and Trent heading down the road to Vegas in an attempt to lift Mike's sagging spirits as he is both disenchanted with his lack of forward momentum, and pining for the girl he left back home (who to his chagrin has latched on to another man).The initial sequence neatly introduces the two characters and neatly displays the chasm in their respective personality types.Trent is insanely confident even in the face of much evidence that suggests he might not have just cause, and Mike is so vulnerable and insecure that a potential hook-up quickly turns into his own personal pity party.The second night sees the duo and a few friends heading out on the town back in LA. This sequence highlights more the image driven nature of Hollywood and those that desperately yearn for fame. No-one ever says what they mean, no-one is ever happy or content, and no-one really pays attention to anyone beside themselves lest they get their precious feelings hurt.It is during this night that Mike has a minor victory that swiftly turns into a morale crushing and confidence sapping personal catastrophe, in a scene that anyone who has seen the film would recognize as the 'answering machine scene'.Then they cringe and purse their lips&#x85; The final night you will have to see for yourself, suffice to say I urge you to seek this film out if you have not already, because a film about a bunch of guys who are already operating in an alternate era when the film starts can hardly then be accused of becoming dated. Swingers is worth watching for many reasons, it is fresh, fun and funny, the language I have already spoken of but it must be heard to be believed, and if anyone ever wondered why a fat, passionless and annoying Vince Vaughan keeps getting work it can only be because Hollywood casting agents have this DVD in their collections, as he has appeared in precious little of value since.In Swingers though he is a whirlwind of energy and self confidence, a jive talking image conman who is unbelievably and instantly repellant, but equally as hard to stop watching.Final Rating &#x96; 8 / 10. Without Vince Vaughan Swingers is a 6 &#x96; just another movie with a couple of chuckles &#x96; with him it becomes a unique character driven film that is worthy of attention.Rewatch this film Vince, and sort yourself out, cos Couples Retreat ain't getting' it done. "},{"Title":"so money","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was a great find. It's from the 90's. But it felt like a breath of fresh air. This is exactly what a guy like my age should see. This is a great guys movie. Swingers is a label which you can call bunch of guys hanging out and flirting with chicks. They have a very high self-esteem and big mouths. And they look stylish. And they are. They're swinging.The story here concentrates on Mikey (Jon Favreau) who's having a difficulties to get over with a broken relationship. His friends try to help him. And there comes a lesson. It shows how important is to have a real friends around you. It's great to see that. The bunch of comedians (Jon Favreau, Vince Vaughn, Ron Livingston) are young here. And they offer more than one or two humorous scene.So if you're a guy over 20, you should see that movie. According to Trent (Vince Vaughn) 'you are so money that you don't know that'. He keeps telling that to Mikey (Jon Favreau) all the time and probably he has right. Well, I say that the film is money and I have probably right too. "},{"Title":"Boys Will Be Boys","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A very funny comedy about a bunch of single dudes trying and failing to hook up.Though the film has a dirty sense of humor that's perfectly matched to the material and characters, it's got a sweet heart at its center. The point is of course that men just need to be themselves, that women appreciate honesty and that nice guys don't necessarily have to finish last.This was the breakout movie for Vince Vaughan, and with the exception maybe of Dodgeball, this is still the best thing he's done.Grade A "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film. The story is original. The characters are strong and go through changes as they try to make it in Hollywood. It's more about their personal internal conflicts and challenges than about the movie business. In that sense, it could apply to anyone. That's part of it's genius. It has a great nostalgic 70s kind of atmosphere, which is typical of the Hollywood scene where things just seem to last through the decades. Jon Favreau wrote and stars as a young wanna-be comedian/actor. He has a personal struggle dealing with a lost love. It's a universal theme and is played out with great originality, over the top acting, a great soundtrack; everything just comes together in this film.  "},{"Title":"In 1996, Jon Favreau establishes the lingo, philosophy and dating apparatus for single 20-something males in the new millenium","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In a single word- Money!  I first saw this film in 1998 as a buddy of mine brought it home from the video store when I was trying to get over a girl. It worked!  Five years later, finding myself in the same predicament, I go to the video store- it worked again!What could be justly labeled a step-by-step video on social aptitude in the new millenium, Swingers lays out the guidelines for today's single man. How long do you wait before calling a girl whose digits you just got?  How do you wing your boy?  What are the perils of decending to teddy bear and ice cream discussions with a girl?  Why do you want to be the guy from the R-rated movie instead of the guy from the PG-13-rated movie guy?  How do you succeed in showing a girl how money you really are?  Favreau's script provides these and many other useful tips for the modern male hoping to survive life in the dating scene.Favreau's character, Mike Peters, is an aspiring actor who works an open-mike night at a local comedy club.  Moving to L.A. from Queens to help himself get over his girlfriend of five years and seeking fame, Mike is down--really down--by his inability to shake her from his system.  The melancholy romantic is consoled by his friend from back home in Queens, Rob (played by Office Space star Ron Livingston); but it is the antics of his savvy and street-wise sidekick Trent Tee Walker (masterfully played by Vince Vaughn).With T-bone's coaxing and pushing, Mikey is forced back into the dating scene.  Rusty at first, he eventually learns to cope and the film culminates in an impressive dénouement and an ending that has me on the edge of my seat, my eyes a-glow and my fists clenched in victory.This film is full of cinematic treats as well.  From Scorcese and Tarantino parodies that follow discussion of the two directors to a cruise down the Vegas strip to walking shots through Hollywood clubs, Swingers has the feel of a late night at a club or an evening at home with the boys playing hockey on Sega Genesis.  Other interesting and original eye-candy is to be found in the repetition of the Club in everyone's car, in the way each key player drives his own car in an almost funeral procession way and in the form of a communicable answering machine.  Although often--erroneously--labeled asrealistic or retro, the formalistic traits of this film are quite amusing and worth looking out for.In the end of the day, Swingers is an exceptional film--entertaining from start to finish, smart, classy and all a man needs to succeed in today's dating world.  The film leads you--or at least me--to re-evaluate things and realize how money you really were all along.  And the hope is rejuvenated somewhere in some smoky, swing club is a beautiful baby--my Heather Graham--waiting for me at the end of the bar. "},{"Title":"The comedy team of Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughan makes for 1 funny flick!!","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Who can't relate to attempting to making a comeback into the dating scene after getting a broken heart?? Jon Favreau is very funny as he gets his arm twisted by his best friend to re-enter the dating scene. His cold feet get him into some hot water. The phone message machine scene in a gut-buster!! Favreau's comic timing and his ability to pause and wait for the other shoe to drop, makes for some very funny moments. Bottom line This flick is money, baby, it's money!! "},{"Title":"So Damn Money!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best independent movies I've ever seen! The actors, the acting and the non-plot were hilarious! This movie tell you how men really think and gives a good look at what LA is like.  Vaughn and Favreau did great, but sometimes I wonder how Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin would have done with these roles. I guess Vaughn and Favreau are the 90's version of Frank and Dean. Just some of the quotes from Swingers brings a smile to my face. It was soo money!!PS...For the people that didnt get it and called it pretentious dont know what life is and wouldn't ever get it!  >  "},{"Title":"i thought it was a great first effort for nearly everyone involved","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i thought this film was great. i think it very well portrayed the art imitates life genre. many are critical of this film becuase it is not constant roll, however, neither is life. this movie was modeled after many of the experiences from favreau's life in los angeles. i think that favreau and vaughn have a great onscreen dynamic. for the time alotment (20 days from start to finish-including editing) and the limited budget(well under 1 million dollars)it turned out far above average. it seems a bit raw, but i think that adds to it's reality. the follow up for the duo, (MADE) is not quite as impressive, though it was triple budget with a studio backing it, however, it still will make my top twenty list any day.  "},{"Title":"This film is so money and everyone should know it!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers  proves that movies don't have to cost tens of millions of dollars and be full of C.G.I. to be great.This film follows the (mis) adventures of Mike, as he tries to get over the break up of his long term relationship.Helping him are his group of struggling actor friends including the ultra cool Trent.For any man going through the hell of an unwanted break up this movie really is the MONEY, because its so accurate but amazingly manages to tap into such a depressing subject in such a light hearted and funny way. Early on in the film Trent, as ever, persuades Mike into doing something he doesn't want to do; go to Las Vegas. Through the course of the evening Mike loses his money and struggles with the ladies, but this half hour segment is handled so well that you can laugh and empathise at the same time.Of course eventually things work themselves out for Mike, but its not an easy ride for him, especially the classic mobile phone scene.I could talk about this movie all day, and have seen it so many times that I know all the dialogue, but suffice to say that this is the coolest, funniest, most heartwarming film you will ever see with great acting,amazing direction(on an obviously limited budget) a killer soundtrack and the most refreshingly funny and honest dialogue you could hope to hear. Even though this film is set in  L.A. it really strikes a chord with guys everywhere.Respect to John Favreau, Vince Vaughn and Doug Liman and the rest of the cast and crew for making my favourite movie!(The parody Swingblade on the dvd is quality too)10 out of 10! A mini masterpiece!Respect to John Favreau, Vince Vaughn and Doug Liman "},{"Title":"This Movie is MONEY...","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know i copped that from another reviewer, but hey, it was so right on.  What a funny, cool movie that just keeps you smiling for like, ever.  Every time I see this movie, and I have seen it 3 times so far, I walk around for like a week calling everyone and everything, money.  Then I wake up to what a jerk i sound like, but for that week or so, it's so much fun calling everything money. Great dialogue, really solid acting and lots of money.  I love this movie. "}{"Title":"Could these two be any funnier? No.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved the movie Swingers. After I watched it the first time I wondered if anyone else would like to see a movie where Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau are paired against Matt Damon and Ben Affleck. Would anyone else like to see a movie like that be made? What would the structure of the film be like? Throw some Ideas around, this would be a fun and funny movie. "},{"Title":"Good, even though it didn't directly speak to me.","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Swingers must be VERY relate-able to some people. People who were trying to break into the entertainment business in the 90's, who were around the age of the characters in the film and were living in LA.To me, I can't really relate to any of the characters either through personality or in the way they hit on girls, or just went out to have fun. I feel like Judd Apatow may have taken quite a bit of influence from 'Swingers' even though to me, a lot of the relationship type themes and scenarios in Apatow's work is easier for me to relate to.'Swingers' has many funny, funny moments. Good pacing (for an 'about nothing film', my fave by FAR being 'Dazed and Confused'), and although Mikes characters actions made me go 'What ARE YOU DOING??' at times, like when he started talking about his ex to the girl in Vegas, or when he called Nikki over and over again, or at all ON THE NIGHT HE MET HER. It is still realistic, there are obviously people that are like that, so it frustrating in an endearing way....and I guess it's what brings the laughs most times.The chemistry between the actors is it's strongest point. There really isn't much to fault with the film. But at the same time there's not too much that REALLY appeals to me in a personal sense, and thats were films like this really stand out.8/10 (Reviewed after 4+ viewings, although first time in 7ish years, so I couldn't remember much at all) "},{"Title":"Jon Favereau's likable  comedy","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Swingers is a comedy about actors being out of work in LA. Mikey (Jon Favereau) is getting over a broken relationship with Michelle.Rob(Ron Livingston), Sue(Patrick Van Horn) and Trent(Vince Vaughan)are on hand to pull him through.Cue a fresh and original comedy.Vince Vaughan explodes on to the screen with his portrayal of Trent.The way he tries to coax his friend Mikey out of his sad state is hysterical.( To build up his esteem  You're so money ... and on his eventual triumph Our baby's all growed up)Rob on the other hand gives him gentle support while auditioning for the role of Goofy. Sue cruelly puts Mikey down as guys often do.They visit clubs and parties. Mikey slowly regains his standing.Where Jon Favereau scores is making Mikey's hurt awkwardness and anxiety hugely funny (His phone call(s!) to Nikki's answerphone is one of the most painfully funny and excruciating moments I have witnessed in a cinema audience -- you want him not to call) Heather Graham is a lovely actress and makes a strong impact in the short time she has on screen. Overall a very funny feelgood movie with a few touching moments. "},{"Title":"How times change...","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just watched this movie today and it gave me a revelation, of sorts, that every movie like this (subject matter centred on human interaction) is a snapshot of a brief moment in time. The way that these guys pick up girls, leave a message on their machine is now completely obsolete! Mobile phones - text messages have come in to play. If this movie were to be an accurate representation of the pick up scene these days it'd have to be remade. I guess there are some things that never change though (always double down on 11, well almost always P) P.S. I made these observations after watching swingers whilst drinking a few beers and proceeding to go to a bar, try to pull out some 'money' lines and f*ck up any chances I had with many beautiful babies. I just decide to keep drinking and here I am, at home, writing pointless comments on IMDb, oh well... "},{"Title":"They were looking for someone who had more Theme Park experience...","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Who's the big winner? Mikey! Mikey's the big winner!An awesome movie, even for armchair Rat-Packers with beerguts living in bland suburbia, USA. We'll never get to Vegas, even to have our hopes dashed with A Dorothy. Hell, we'll probably never even get to hang out at local dives like The Derby. But we can all root for Mikey, as he gets his shot with Lorraine. And hope that this time it all works out, and maybe he can just give that damn answering machine a rest.Is this the only movie ever made with a reference to Steve Larmer?P.S.-be sure to check out the short Swing Blade on the newest DVD, as Karl can walk in slow-motion and chase beautiful babies just as well as Mikey, Trent, & Sue. "},{"Title":"When Will People Admit Heather Graham Is Not Hot","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had a fair amount of anticipation for this film, because I am an avid Vince Vaughn fan. Okay, wait, maybe not avid... but moderate at least. Most shocking thing Vince is so very young in this movie (his breakthrough role). Most disappointing thing Not nearly enough Ron Livingston. Coolest scene the hockey scene, with the blood-soaked Wayne Gretsky and the Reservoir Dogs poster. Or maybe the scene where they say all directors rip off other directors as they do a nearly-identical scene from Goodfellas.Plot Mike and Trent scout the earth looking for girls. Trent's a**hole approach works wonders, but Mike - who just got out of a six-year relationship - keeps botching it up for both himself and Trent. Watch the movie have many Sinatra-themed scenes, one of the most depressing scenes ever with an answering machine, and other assorted goodness.Conclusion I'm fairly torn on this film, but I think I liked it. The subject matter wasn't something I could relate to, and I could use more Ron Livinston and less Jon Favreau. But considering everything, I think the film is worth seeing. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Playing Goofy","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is a film that is smart in that it knows itself and says so. It is a dumb film in that it knows what it has to do to be successful, and that's play to us bunnies -- not be the weak PG movie, but the R rated one.Favreau the actor plays Ben Stiller less well than Stiller. Favreau the writer gets inspiration from and essentially steals from the `talk-across-the-diner-table' genre. Superficially this is Tarantino but of course QT lifted from an old tradition as well. There IS some snappy dialog. There IS some self-reference. But (except possibly for the hockey game) it doesn't cut very deep when put next to, say, `Kahuna' or `Hurlyburly,' both of which mine the same human pathos.The problem is that Favreau the writer is sitting down and thinking I've got to seduce the audience. They're superficial, so the film has to be too. But at least I'll show my friends I'm not really Goofy by making the story about two guys talking about how superficial is the art of seduction. To make it obvious, everyone will be in the film business and have to do scummy jobs (like try to play Goofy).These are better actors than the script. I have yet to see `Made,' and I'm told that they solved some of the problems they had with this project. I was very impressed by Vaughn in the `Psycho' metafilm. He understood what it was all about and was able to deliver both the `straight' performance and the modern commentary on it. In fact his DVD comment on that comment was great, too. "},{"Title":"Cinema at its worst.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If there is a more vile, boring, wretched movie that has ever sprung from a festering cesspool of a writer's imagination, I have yet to see it.  There is no plot to speak of, a bunch of painfully two-dimensional drunkards float from party to party and call each other money.  The writer, after apparently waking up in his own vomit and blearily looking at his typewriter and realizing this attempted to force a plot by having one of the character wave a gun at some straight-edgers.  While in reality this would have resulted in said character being riddled with bullets (as myself and everyone in the room was eagerly hoping for), the straight-edgers just leave.  End of conflict, end of plot.  This movie took away precious minutes of my life that I can never have back.  Save yourselves, avoid this like the plague! "},{"Title":"Boring,mediocre.Do you even know what Swingers mean Favrou?","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must be honest from the start the swingers just didn't do it for me.For starters Jon Favreau's performance is very bad.I understand that this is his first movie which he wrote and probably had the part written for himself but his character just isn't likable nor reletable in any way(Paul Rudd is made for these types of rolls and i am not a even a fan). His portrayal of a sensitive guy is very contrived and dull.The characters in this movie are very one dimensional ,no one ever says something meaningful or remotely funny, for a guy movie its slightly above average because you can see that a lot of creativity was involved but just didn't deliver and in the end couldn't pass for anything else unfortunately.The film itself isn't filmed well either.The camera angles are boring like someone filmed them without any prior knowledge of filming and had Martin Scorsese in mind .Vince Vaughn and Ron Living are okay but they always play the same parts.The reservoir dogs references are weak and deciduous.I understand that this movie is about guys going out and getting laid and showing up whats its like to be in your late 20s in Los Angeles ,New York during the 90s.But it does such a bad job that You thought you would have more fun in some torn third world country (no disrespect as i come from such a country myself)If you happen to like mediocre nostalgic guy movies.Go and watch it.But I've seen way better movies made with even less finance and more heart.Id be happy to recommend them. "},{"Title":"A certain sort of celebration of a certain sort of masculinity","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Doug Liman's lively film 'Swingers' tells the story of a group of young men in Los Angeles, and one in particular, John Favreau's Mike, who is struggling to rebound after the end of a previous relationship. Mike is offset by his juvenile, sexist friends; and yet the film seems somehow to be celebrating as well as mocking their world of sleazy charm and, as they would assert (not always convincingly), easy women. For example, they use the expression you are the money, as a way of hyping up each others' self confidence, which seems particularly unappealing, which the script seems to be both be laughing at and endorsing. Indeed, the overall plot is presented as an essentially happy story where at the end Mike is money once again. Liman handles this material with aplomb; but I'm not sure I'd actually like to live in his world. "}{"Title":"Jon Favreau, Vince Vaughn, and Doug Liman own 1996","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Often copied but never matched, Swingers is a fresh low budget romantic comedy from then budding director Doug Liman and writer Jon Favreau. The premise is one that has been, again, copied to death in recent years; our protagonist (Favreau) has just been dumped by his longtime girlfriend and his friends try and help him get back in the game. Unlike its many copycats however, Swingers has heart and quality writing as well as plenty of laughs, and the excellent performances from Vince Vaughn and co. don't hurt either. Also, the film has a low budget feel that adds to its charm. I especially loved the scenes in Vegas that make fun of stereotypical films that take place there. "},{"Title":"The movie was good, but the characters irritating","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie brings me to a bit of a dichotomy. The movie itself and the character interaction was good but the characters themselves irritated me. Basically we had the main character, Mike, had just lost his girlfriend, who said that she would give him a call. He is depressed (and this depression lasts 6 months) and his friend Trent tries to show him a good time. In the end he meets a girl who is in the same situation as he is and they end up going out.Mike spends the entire movie moping about his lost love and tries to extract sympathy from those around him. The problem here is that his girlfriend means everything to him, and when she is stripped away from him he has absolutely nothing left in his life. In fact he has quite a good life as he has friends, he is attractive, and his film career is on its way with a part in a pilot and hosting a comedy club. Yet he does not realise this, and in fact is so fixated on his ex-girlfriend that he ends up driving other girls away (though he elicits the sympathy of two waitresses in Las Vegas).His friend Trent is the opposite. He goes around with the belief that he is the greatest thing around. He believes that he can pick and chose his girls, and really treats them like sex objects. He cannot understand the deep rent in the relationship that Mike is experiencing. His answer is a couple of girls and pointless sex - that solves everything. His whole belief is undermined at the end when he believes that a woman is making baby faces at him when in fact she is making faces at her baby.What this movie does well is that it draws out the attitudes and beliefs of the characters. Even though they are annoying, they are real. People do feel depressed for six months after losing a love, especially if it is a relationship as such. I personally felt irritated over the characters, but the film itself was good. "},{"Title":"Swingers-An indie movie with style.","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Written by Jon Favreau in just two weeks, the screenplay to Swingers is nevertheless an excellent debut. And, although the film is not directed by Favreau himself, his involvement was such that it made it into an instant financial and critical success- An unveiling vehicle who made the career of Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn which turned them into a lucrative couple in the same manner as Matt Damon and Ben Affleck. Swingers follows in a very realistic manner the lives of single, unemployed would be actors throughout the early 90s. Coincidently, a swing and blues revival period. Main leads, Favreau and Vaughn, play Mike and Trent, two friends who also happened to be the central characters of the film. Mike, the latest arrival of the group to Los Angeles has broken up with his girlfriend of six years and is still having difficulties moving on. It is quintessentially a man's film, yet it has just enough realistic romance to also make it appealing to a certain type of women, the intelligent and sophisticated ones. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Still cool","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a real gem of a movie. If you prefer depth of character, great acting and intelligent dialogue over idiots and explosions, this is for you.Mike (Favereu) and his charismatic sidekick Trent (a superb Vaughn) throw out hilarious and poignant one-liners with a casual nonchalance all to rare for this sort of writing. Too often 'clever' dialogue is delivered in the sort of self-satisfied way which grates on ones nerves very quickly. None of that here.The subject/s; matters of the heart and friendship are bravely, honestly and quite beautifully dealt with as well. Mikeys problems (both internal and external) will resonate with a lot of us, and who wouldn't want a pal (the total antithesis of Mikey) like Trent? In short, I'd say this film just oozes class, it's as cool and relevant today as it was when made back in 1996 and well deserving of its cult status. "},{"Title":"Not as Money as it hopes to be, but enough","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it's me, but i truly don't know why this little film is so much loved. It's merely an OK flick to spend an hour & half on. Yea, a few scenes were fantastic, but it's not the epitome of comedy/dramas (not even King of the Indies) It simply is what it is, a good buddy movie about moving on from past relationships.Where I saw it HBO ComedyMy Grade B-Funniest scene Vince Vaughn tells a baby of his audition for brother "},{"Title":"The definition of guys","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Women, this is the definition of every good and bad guy you will ever meet. If you ever want to understand men this movie explains it all. There are nice guys out there. Many of us care about this picture. I am from the big city (Washington D.C.) and have moved to the south (Auburn, Alabama). Almost every single guy I have seen has expressed respect toward this movie due to how real it portrays men. We want to care, but we live in a society that says we can't. This is the ultimate guy love movie. We all want real love but are afraid to admit it.Damian  "},{"Title":"make Gretzky's head bleed!!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having scanned a few comments for this film, i was horrified to find that some people actually didn't like it! I admit that it's not specifically aimed at women (my ex-girlfriend fell asleep at the start of it, but then again, she also fell asleep during Indy Jones & the Temple of Doom, so ladies, don't be put off!), however at the same time, it isn't at all sexist (where fun is made, it is pointed at the blokes); it is that rarest of things a realistic comedy(although Maltin calls it superficial-?)- I know that many of the situations the lads get in on their nights out certainly remind me of my own experiences, particularly the confrontation with another group of lads/Trent & Sue taking the video game too seriously/Mike's quips lost on the Vegas girls, and the characteristics of the five relate uncannily to various mates of mine!!Lastly, there are only a few parts of films which actually give me a rush inside every time I see them- (For example,Return of the Jedi Darth Vader throwing the emperor into the pit)- and SwingerS is such a film *POSS. SPOILER* When Mike dances with Lorraine (to a kickarse soundtrack)and simultaneously transforms from the shy neurotic he is throughout most of the film to the 'guy who gets the girl' that we all want him to be- I get a kick out of that every time I watch it!All in all, a cracking film made by someone who knows what going out & having a good time is all about, and can universally portray it on screen.. A must for film buffs too!! "},{"Title":"The money!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This slick comedy is superbly observed, written, directed and acted - benefiting from the fact that the two leads are real-life best friends. The group of guys, around which the plot centres, is brilliantly characterised and the incidental dialogue gives the film a sense of realism. Swingers constantly amuses and comes up with three or four brilliantly funny set pieces. In this respect is is similar to 'Clerks'. In my experience girls do not like this film (other than ogling Vince Vaughn), but then again maybe I dont know the right girls. Also if you like your films effects and plot laden, then dont go for this. It is truly a classic and can be watched time and again, you just want to hang out with them. "},{"Title":"Getting over yourself . . .","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story is very superficial and/or quite profound. It depends on how you look at it.  It portrays the tribulations of a bunch of single guys mostly trying to meet and/or pick up women. The main thread works around one of the guys who cries over and over his ex-girlfriend who broke up with him. He screws up his next dating chances because of his bad emotional shape.  When he finally rebuilds his self-confidence, the ex-girlfriend comes back and he doesn't care anymore, he's met someone else.  Duhhhh . . . . as usual. Watch it if you have nothing better to do, or are just feeling sorry for yourself, waiting for that bloody ex to come back . . .  Well, we are all human, we have all been there, so watch it to remind yourself what you already know.  The narrative recourses are funny, subtle, and endearing. "},{"Title":"Its Money!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers, the most laid back, Tarrantino esq. hip film since the invention of the lava lamp. How do you get over your break up with your girlfriend? Trent (Vaughn) takes Mickey (Faverau) under his wing and shows him the way. A movie so true to life that it systematically lines up each step of post break up. Witty dialogue, cooly self referential and as smooth as a single malt on the rocks! Everyone in this world can relate to it. Writing genius, and exceptionally acted. Vaughn embodies this essence of cool. So if you wanna learn to be money, or you wanna pick up some beautiful little babies, this films for you! A definate 9 out of 10! "}{"Title":"You Live Around Here Much?","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers really beats the Dutch, and I'm really footin' it on the lingo.  Foist, we got Mikey Peters, who remains gutless for most of the show, but then gets his Swingerness back.  Second, we've Trent, an elite pick-up artist who is very smooth.  He makes Mike look pathetic by comparison.  Mike gets tossed a little rickshaw when his woman, who was just poured into that dress, no longer cuts it for him.  Mike dumps her and moves out to L.A.  How about a little sugar for Mike?  Thats what the movie is about, his lack of confidence in his sexuality.  Trent has the should I call you or just roll over and nudge you mentality where as Mike has the there's a dance next Friday and I was wondering..Oh., mentality.  Rest assured, the movie has a happy ending and I guess they'll save the rest of the story for the sequel. Rating 7/10 (For a good time, call doctrnoles) "},{"Title":"GO DADDY-O!!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"       I remembered watching this film a long time ago. I also remembered that I enjoyed it a lot. So tonight at the video store I saw a copy and decided to pick it up. I went home and through it in. Let me say my memory has impressed me.     The script is so awesome. It is written in just the way I like it. All of the characters are real-sympathetic, when need to be, people who you wish you could go and hit the night with.     I happen to know someone who is exactly like Trent. Accept my friend is not quite that cool. Trent I think is everyone's character in the film. He steals every scene that he is in, which means he pretty much steals the entire film. The way he acts is just so money. NOTE AFTER THIS FILM I WILL NO DOUBT TALK LIKE THEM.     The acting is excellent in the film. Vince Vaughn is hilarious in one of his first starring roles. Jon Fauvra is a very pathetic man who you are hoping will get all his s--t together. And whoever played Sue also did a very good job.     The film is top class. You will find yourself talking and acting like the characters. Plus, the film makes great mention of other films, (Reservoir Dogs, Goodfellas, Casino). And I had to just say I have that Reservoir Dogs poster hanging in my room too. 8.5/10     P.S. THE REASON I TOOK OFF THOSE POINTS IS BECAUSE A LOT OF THE CAMERA WORK WAS VERY SHAKY AND IT GOT KIND OF ANNOYING. "},{"Title":"Breaking up is easy to do with Swingers","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the ultimate movie to watch after a break-up. It clearly portrays the ups and downs of getting over a long-term steady, with a final resolution that any forlorn former lover could only dream of. Set against the familiar backdrop of a lovable bunch of 20-something guys looking for a good time in LA, this movie tells the tale of one character's attempt to get over an ex-girlfriend and the life lessons he learns along the way. Anyone who has ever tried to get over someone special will relate to his plight and learn a thing or two about moving on and growing at the end of a relationship.   "},{"Title":"If you wanna be money...","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When i first saw this movie i did not think it was that funny, so i had to watch it again to get all of the stuff that i did not get the first time. I have fallen in love with this movie, not literally, but it is in my opinion one of the funniest movies made. Vince Vaughn (Trent) and Patrick Van Horn (Sue) have a style and presonality in this movie that makes them look so good. I recommend this movie to everyone. give it a chance and if you don't laugh watch it again and i am sure you will laugh lots. Cause if you wanna get digits and you wanna be the money, you need to watch Swingers  And it has a cute love story type thing to it also.  "},{"Title":"You can call me anytime....","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very well-written, funny film that has only one downfall  the last fourth of the film is anti-climactic.  The film is distinguished by its comic performances, especially Vince Vaughan, and by its all too familiar (at least from a male perspective) urban social situations.The film is structured in four parts  1. Introduction of the leads and the story of lost love, 2.  Exploration of LA urban lifestyle by its wannabe young actors, 3.  Resolution of the chasm caused by lost love and (un-necessarily) 4. The finding of new love and the placement of Heather Graham.The structure does not undermine the great humor, though.  Males should especially relate to the part in the film when the protagonist agonizingly repeat phone calls the girl he just met at the bar - who hasn't called a girl back too soon and seemed just a bit too eager?  But, leaving phone machine messages SEVEN times!! Don't ever call me either!Also of note is the jaunt to Las Vegas on a swinging Wednesday night!  The guys lose the little money they have then make a date for 601 am at the Tiki bar then on to the mobile home with their dates - an appropriately dire Vegas trip!To this writer, the film is about male bonding in a desperate city.  The resolution of the film's protagonist with his friends as well as his new found comfort is being single should have been enough.  The final dancing scene between Favreau and  Graham had to be cooked up by the production company. "},{"Title":"...Or how to get over being dumped.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I owe this film a lot, without it I might still be lying in bed with the curtains closed. Twenty something is the best time of your life and this film will magnify all the best aspects, friends, dating, and going out. Watch it and let it revitalize your lust for life. "},{"Title":"you are so money and you don't even know it","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  living in an era where many a time a good movie is muffled by the pitter-patter of gen x'ers racing to the next billion dollar block buster blah, Swingers, still gives hope to movie lovers across the globe that a good script and talent do exist. Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn shine in this spectacular film, and make Swingers as enjoyable to watch as a swinging GAP commercial.  "},{"Title":"a neo-classic","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film tonight for this first time ever. Due to my friends, I had high expectations. When It was over, I hit rewind and watched it again. It is soo much fun. Any guymyself especially can relate to Mike and has a friend like Trent. By the end, you are really rooting for Mike. I was proud of him when he asked Heather to dance. This film really connects you to its characters. Even Trent you wanna see end up happy. He is a semi-jerk, but he is very loyal to Mike. This film is really quite brilliant. Check it out. It's MONEY! "},{"Title":"A nice kick-back flick...","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You gotta show the beautiful babies you're money.-TrentSo, what better way of doing this than making them watch Swingers with you? Swingers is a truly great movie. No special effects (aside from a really sweet remake of the classic walking scene in Reservoir Dogs), no cheesy script, just a wonderful film. The beauty of Swingers is the fact that it can either be watched with the guys, girlfriend, or by yourself. The soundtrack is a gem also. "},{"Title":"This film is smooth. VERY, smooth","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is incredible. I have seen this movie so many times that it is beginning to feel like a Star Wars to me. This is the film that really made me want to make films myself. Although some would consider this a shallow, hip comedy, full of one-liner's and witty dialogue that everyone will repeat more than their share, i choose, tackily, to look a bit deeper into Favreau's writing and character Mikey. At the risk of sounding like a complete geek this is the movie i recommend to all of my friends who have just broken up with their girlfriends.  "}{"Title":"Flat and empty","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hyperactive airhead ramblings of Trent, a plot that was deflating, content with punchlines that mainly felt like a slap with an empty bin liner.There was potential in this movie but it flew down the strip like a dragster with only one cylinder firing fuelled by doughnut oil (or chip fat for my fellow Brits). Every so often there was a scene that raised the stakes a little, like the caravan foursome scene early on - no, not one of those foursomes - which is why I gave the three.I wanted it to deliver but the dialogue was flat and, to be generous, the characters mainly unconvincing. The woman with the cigar I thought may blossom into something, likewise the waitress at the casino, and a few others, but they were left for dead and Trent lived on... yawn.Mike was okay in some ways, but at the end it seemed all his potential had been wasted too and I was left feeling I'd been taken on a long ride to nowhere and back. Now I often love movies of everyday life where there is little in the way of fast action and no dramatic conclusion, but they have to engage me in some convincing interactions with well acted characters of depth. Swingers didn't do this by a long way.The filming and production felt choppy and disconnected. The acting was B movie Hollywood. Maybe it reflects real life in Hollywood? Maybe its a film for a young male age group? Not for me. And what was that gun scene about?! Inane. "},{"Title":"are these guys even cool?","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie which shot Vince onto the scene in a performance he has been striving to re-create his entire career. It has some of the best dialogue and camera work you will see in a film, but thats the besides the point...if you ask me.The film does what any great film should do (and swingers is a great film) it creates a real sense of time and place and allows us to live through the characters. We get to know them, we question them, we laugh with and at them and by the end of the film we know them.also, you'll laugh your ass off because above all else, this film is money. "},{"Title":"Cocktails, dreams, problems and friends...","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first time, I saw Swingers by chance and I felt in love for it. Low budget, niche film, young actors, acute dialogs, a successful recipe. Who has never suffered from love? Who has never dreamed to became an actor? Who has never experimented an hard landing? Swingers is this cocktails, dreams, problems and friends. And where did Mike & Trent try to solve their problems? In Las Vegas! A cool city, a mix of people, lights and moneys. But the happiness is not there, every place, every pub, every parties quoting Charles ...Is dead anyways. Why? Because, basically, love lacks. But not dreams and hopes. So see Swingers, it will be good. "},{"Title":"It's like a big bear man!","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First let me say that this film isn't for everybody. But, I was 22 when I saw it, and I'm a guy, so it was definitely for me.Before I say what I'm just about to say, let me say that I've seen about 4,000 films, and my top ten is probably on par with many film- lovers of the same age&#x85; I love The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly, Shawshank, Raiders, orig Star Wars Trilogy, Unforgiven, Wizard of Oz, Pulp Fiction/Kill Bill, Goodfellas, etc&#x85; Don't get me wrong, there are some of my 43 10's that are a bit out-of- the- box, like Chungking Express, Frantic, Boyz in the Hood, U23D&#x85; but in general most of my 10's are scored above 8.0 on here and universally liked.Swingers is perhaps my favorite movie of all-time. Of course the environment where I saw it for the first time only enhanced the experience. In a town full of big theaters(CBus OH), only a small theater off campus called Studio 35 was showing Swingers. My brother, the resident predictor of everything pop-culture told me I should check-it-out.Studio 35 is a steady angle theater with old short padded metal theater seats, sticky floors, with greasy slices of pie to eat and beer on tap. It's not the quietest or best place to see a movie, but somehow, on this occasion, it only enhanced the experience.Swingers is the epitome of bachelor/buddy flicks. No other movie taps into the young guy psyche like it does. Not Old School, not Superbad,not Bachelor Party, not American Graffiti,&#x85; nothing! It launched the careers of Favreau, Vaughn, and Livingston(of Office Space fame). What makes it so great is that the writers(Favreau and Vaughn) were writing a story very near and dear to the own personal lives; the struggling actor in LA living most of their lives in speakeasy bars and diners.The writing is pitch-perfect. I still smile and laugh the whole way through &#x96; well, except the cringeworthy yet effective scene where Mikey keeps calling the girls' answering machine. It looks like a B movie. Not the best production value, but that's not what this film is about. It's about friends. It's about relationships and heartache. It's about facing your fears.The film has that certain something that I can't put my finger&#x96;on, but if I were trying I would point out the writing, the music, the light-hearted subject matter played with such honesty and realism..and the stand-out performances from it's young, future stars.You can just tell that everyone had fun making this movie.David Schwimmer made a very different movie that I think succeeded for many of the same reasons, Trust. Schwimmer had great knowledge of the subject and it showed.Watch this very special and intimate comedy that will forever be a cult-classic. For the 90's college people, the 'son's of the baby- boomers' if you will - it's pitch perfect. There's something very genuine about this.. no gimmicks.. realistic.. hilarious.. amazing chemistry... "},{"Title":"Bittersweet","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is an alright production starring Jon Favreu and Vince Vaughn as Mike and Trent respectively. However I don't think it was that much of a comedy as it was drama. It really had a lot of funny scenes and crazy stuff going on all the time but the drama aspect was also very much there all the time. It was like bittersweet.Favreu and Vaughn were great in this flick. They made a good job getting the message out. Very funny and well done movie by Doug Liman. "},{"Title":"You're like a big bear, man.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ahh, Swingers, a guys movie.  There are chick flicks, but this is a guy flick.  Not some absent minded shoot-em up, blow up everything in sight type of movie.  A movie that explains why guys are like they are, and why we don't care.  I've never seen Jon Favreau the same after this movie.  The Replacements, nope; Very Bad Things, no way.  Just not happening.  And I have to admit, I saw Vince Vaughn's performace in The Lost World before seeing Swingers, but I don't hold that against him at all.  Favreau's script is wonderfully crafted, and beautifully shot by Doug Liman, accenting the Hollywood night life to a 'T'.  A movie I have never gotten bored of, and I've had many chances to grow bored of it. "},{"Title":"Extremely Cool....","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must admit Swingers didn't look very promising from the first half hour, but after that it is very watchable and extremely cool. It was rudely ignored by the Academy in 1996, and it deserved at least one nomination, because the script was great, the performances were outstanding, the direction had noticeable effort and the cinematography and shots made you wanna get up and dance! So, don't be a fool like the Academy. Don't ignore this movie when your in the video store next time, give it a go, and you won't regret it.Rating 8 "},{"Title":"Old wine, new bottle","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every generation needs a story about lonely guys looking for someone. Swingers has enough spontaneous plot twists, cute dialog and LA in jokes to make it interesting. If I were in my 20's maybe I'd think this was a fantastic film. But I'm not. This film with a wink pays tribute to Scorsese and Tarantino but the borrowing goes deeper. Essentially Swingers follows the basic story of Marty, a 1955 film that won the Academy Award. What Swingers does not do is develop any of its women characters. In fact except for Mike the male characters do not change that much. (I sometimes thought that a more appropriate title could be Losers.) The film is fun but shallow. But I think that was the idea. "},{"Title":"Mikey's all grows'd up&#133;Swingers","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The early to mid-90s brought the world an insurgence of little indie films that could. Sure Clerks is looked upon as the movie that gave everyone the opportunity to say to himself, Yes, I can do it, but it is really Swingers that showed what an indie film could do. Kevin Smith's debut was one made very much on the cheap with friends and non-actors waxing pop-culture philosophical. These guys were hilarious yes, but talented no. It was the witty banter, scripted by Smith, which gave that film its legs; the production values are low and the artistic quality little to none. Don't get me wrong, Smith is one of my favorite directors and I absolutely love Clerks. However, a movie like Swingers (ok, so it had a budget of $200,000 compared to $30,000 for Clerks, but still that is pennies in this industry) takes the idea of film-making on the go and runs with it so far that it looks almost Hollywood.Both of these films used a first time writer to be the backbone of the project. Like Smith, Jon Favreau crafted a script so real that it could have been completely ad-libbed. This film is the essence of life in Los Angeles with just dialogue. Much of the story takes place in the principals' apartments; these one-room homes could be anywhere, it is the words that tell the story, not the visuals. Even when the action goes to some of the hip clubs around town and a casino in Vegas, it was all shot by the director, Doug Liman, without emptying out the venues. These guys would come in and rope off half the bar saying that anyone on that side might be in a film. Swingers is guerilla film-work at its best, shooting when they can and where they can. All the sounds are unscripted, the lighting true, and the people local. Everything is so tangential, helping the movie succeed. We are watching a group of friends go about their lives on the prowl for alcohol, sex, fun, and love. This is probably the closest you can get to documentary without it being so.You have to love the way Favreau and Liman have allowed themselves to poke fun at their own on-going work too. Having a discussion about film costs and it being crazy to shoot a scene in a casino due to price, literally five minutes after they just shot in a casino is priceless. These guys love film and they bring that feeling to the work. It also doesn't hurt having a spectacular supporting cast of faces that had yet to make it big in the industry. Classic that guy Alex Desert, Ron Livingston before Office Space, and Heather Graham before Boogie Nights all help add to the flavor. Besides them and LA itself, (a gorgeous slide show of photos for the opening titles and little jabs at the city like the inability to carpool in case you have a chance to take a girl home), Swingers is also the launching of Vince Vaughn's hyper-comedy. The man puts this film on his shoulders and never lets it go. He is the best friend we all want. Sure he is a ladies man going off to get as many women as he can, but he will never leave a friend behind. It is his mission to get his bud back in the game and he will stop at nothing, even if it means his own love life suffering as a result. It was a star-making role that is so money I don't think he can ever top it. He'll get close, (Wedding Crashers for example), but the antics, attitude, and lovability here will not be beat. Vaughn is so good that, in only a few minutes, he was able to display the greatness that was EA Sports' NHL '96. The comradery, the skill, the gloating, and, of course, making Gretzky bleed for Superfan 99. You don't get better than this. "},{"Title":"Yawn.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film about a bunch of struggling actors in Hollywood out to get laid. The focus is on Mike, who's still getting over the breakup of a long-term relationship, and whose best buddy Trent is trying to get him back into the dating scene. The performances aren't bad, and there's some great neo-swing music on the soundtrack, but I lost count of the number of times I said to myself I saw that one coming whenever something happened in the way of plot development. Worse, it's so blatantly trying to be cool and hip that a neon sign reading Hey! We're hip! would have been more subtle. Not a bad way to waste an afternoon if there's nothing on TV, but not one to run out and rent either. "}{"Title":"Terrific Dialogue + Parallel Construction = Great Flick","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having heard my buddies talk about Swingers incessantly, and bandy about words such as money, bitch and Vegas, Baby, Vegas for months, I finally bit the bullet and saw Swingers in early '98.Since then, Swingers has become my all-time favorite movie, surpassing such notables as Pulp Fiction and Braveheart in my book.One reason I love this movie so much is that I completely identify with Mikey.  It is impossible to watch this movie without actually *hurting* for Mikey as you watch his various travails in the dating world.  Particularly heart-wrenching is the famous answering machine scene.  That scene, while hysterical, makes you want to jump up and just slap the phone out of his hand.  The worst part, is that nearly every guy has likely had a vaguely similar experience about calling girls and answering machines.A second reason I love this movie is the witty dialogue.  While several critics seem to denounce the movie as a poor attempt to achieve Tarantino-like dialogue, I believe the film equals and perhaps surpasses Pulp Fiction's conversational quality.  The best movie dialogue always sounds like a natural conversation, rather than a scripted and stilted translation of the writer's vision.  Watching Mikey, Trent, Sue and Ron interact takes me back to my college days and how my friends and I used to talk...Added to the somewhat grainy quality of the film, the dialogue makes it readily believable that the viewer is merely a fly on the wall looking into the lives of real guys.The third reason why this movie is outstanding is the parallel plot construction.  Occasionally denounced as devoid of meaningful plot, Swingers proves anything but.  The central issue of Mikey getting over his girlfriend is a constant theme, and the movie never strays too far. Particularly masterful is the tying together of the first and last scenes, in which Liman brings the entire movie together and provides a satisfying bit of closure to the every-man viewer such as myself, proving that sometimes nice guys can finish first.This is the ONLY movie I have ever purchased.  I believe that it is one of the best indy-movies ever made.  I think that all guys should be required to view this flick.  And for the critics who can't get over their own self-importance and self-styled images as movie buffs, get a grip--this is a movie about men, being men....shut up and enjoy it...you know you want to.  "},{"Title":"If I never hear the words money or baby again...","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It will be too soon. I can't even count on two hands how many times I heard these two words...in a sentence...together.Besides this...minor gripe, Swingers was an average comedy. Vince Vaughn is kind of annoying in here, he's just a little know-it-all and he always seems to get under my skin. However, he played his part perfect as a scumbag.The main character Mike (Jon Favreau), is almost unbearable to watch. He is so incredibly awkward, I can't help but feel horrible for this guy. And although I am sympathetic to his background story, his overall weirdness just didn't earn any brownie points with me.The supporting cast is blah as well, but I do feel like Heather Graham was a standout. She brought a tad bit of class to the film.Swingers has its moments where you can't help but laugh, but most of the dialogue is unimportant blabber on behalf of Vaughn...I'd give Swingers an A for effort, but it was definitely a sub-par comedy. (I also found it strange how basically every scene with Vince Vaughn and another man in it -- the other man always seemed to be all up on Vaughn...kinda strange.) "},{"Title":"Community flick","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is dedicated to the audience that will feel close to the main characters. Well that could be great if the audience was not limited to a community of people living in LA. Away from the place to be where wannabes and losers walk and run in circles, there's not much to be interested in, there's no deep, universal attraction.It's not that Jon Favreau is not good but the character he wrote keeps whining the same way all along. That shouldn't be the main character, only a comic relief IMO. Vince Vaughn is great; it's just a pity that the movie is not more demanding, his character sillier.And obviously Doug Liman did a great job to bring an anecdotal script to life. It's certainly well shot, but there's not much substance to start with. Apart from the technical aspect of a shoestring production and that of scouting Vince Vaughn, the movie is pointless. "},{"Title":"To be honest, I felt awkward watching this movie","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have heard a lot about Swingers and how funny it is, in fact I had a friend almost yell at me when he found out that I have seen so many movies but I have not seen Swingers. So, obviously, I had to save the friendship, P, so I went out to rent this. I am going to feel so bad about what to tell my friend because I really didn't get too into Swingers.I can see why this is a cult classic, I would never deny that it wasn't a good movie. I just really didn't laugh, there were a couple moments where I laughed very lightly, that was it. But the scene where Mike calls that girl Niki like 10 times to leave stupid messages, I laughed, but it was just so painful to watch. Now, I love Vince Vaughn, he is just a crazy and funny comedic actor, but I found him to be a little bit annoying in this movie. I don't mind repeated lines every once in a while, but money was just way too over used.Like I said, I'm not calling this a bad movie, because I can see why people got so into it, but I just didn't really enjoy it. I might give it a second shot just to see if there is anything there. Hopefully there is, otherwise my friend might question my expertise in movies. D3/10 "},{"Title":"The coolest ever","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is one of my absolute all time favourites... The scene where they first talk about slow motion scene from Reservoir dogs, and then re enact it is absolutely genius!!! Another scene that I especially like is where they enter the club at the end of the film, the camera follows the guys as they walk through the kitchen into the club, excellent camera!!I really think this movie deserves a lot more attention! There are so many hidden little hints all through the movie (e.g. they talk about the scene from Goodfellas where they walk through the kitchen, and later in the movie the guys also walk through a kitchen) "},{"Title":"Boring rubbish.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How tedious, a movie about a bunch of losers trying to get laid.  This has been done about 1000 times before, yawn.  It plays like a drama striving to be a comedy but missing the mark by a continent.Do not buy, rent, or otherwise see this movie.  There's plenty more celluloid in the sea.  Zipp0 rating of 2/10. "},{"Title":"One of the most over rated films of all time","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That is not a mis-quote. I hated this movie. I hated every character in the film. This movie is an affront to modern civilization. Gee, good looking white guys trying to live like the rat pack. Give me a break. This movie reeks. "},{"Title":"Twizard Rating 97","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie that made us know Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn will surely not disappoint. It's humor is unique to the two leads, and is organic in the sense that it hits home for them. They believe what's happening because they lived it.Written by Favreau and loosely based on he and Vaughn's life and friendship, Swingers is about a group of struggling actors who are involved in the '90s Hollywood swing revival. It follows Mike (Favreau), a New York native who can't get over his ex-girlfriend. But his friends, most notably Trent (Vaughn), try getting him out of his depression by forcing him back out onto the playing field.Both leads are fantastic. Vaughn wows the audience with his unique brand of fast-talking humor. And Favreau is so convincing as a wallowing sad sack that you genuinely feel bad for the guy.The scene towards the beginning where the pair of friends go to Las Vegas sets the tone for the entire movie. It establishes a style that is vehemently consistent throughout.Swingers has everything that will make you want to drive to Los Angeles and Las Vegas right this second. It ties together the glitz and glamor of both cities, seamlessly connecting the two. But I think what captures the neon vibe of the film's locations is the juxtaposition of failing to make it. This failure, of course, isn't stressed. It's still opportunity. It's optimism.Neither Mike nor Trent have had much success in the industry, but Trent is still having the time of his life, while Mike's only reason to be down on himself is his breakup. The film paints a perfect portrait of confident mediocrity, and being complacent with it.The story's exposition takes its time, but in a perfect way. Every scene has a sincere purpose and contributes to establishing the depth of its characters. But it's beyond just the characters. A movie is refreshingly good if even the circumstances have depth. In fact, that's when it's great.Twizard Rating 97 "},{"Title":"the movie which made Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My favourite feel good movie, young Vince oozes with style and confidence, a must watch! The movie is about a young Jon Favreau who plays a struggling stand-up, who has just split up with his girlfriend and his friends encourage him to get back out there and chat up new young ladies. The plot is loosely based on Jon Favreau's life and Favreau uses his own apartment in the filming of this low budget indie movie. Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn had previously met on the set of Rudy and after they cemented a good friendship together Vince got the part co-staring next to Favreau. This in my opinion is still Vince Vaughn's finest performance as he shows off all his traits confident, cheeky and swagger in his way with the ladies. The movie is not just about Jon Favreau's character (Mikey) bouncing back from his recent relationship but it's equally about the power of friendship. "},{"Title":"Fun & games for the thinking man","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Can't believe that this film passed me by. I really enjoyed it. The film starts slowly, but soon it morphs into a film that both makes you smile & empathize with the characters lives & you find yourself wanting to see how these progress. It has a similar feel to the great film Diner, it's really a film for the boys , but isn't afraid to show its feminine side. Nice touches include the nods to Goodfellas & Reservoir Dogs. The film just gets better as it progresses . As the owner of A Sega Mega Drive, I also enjoyed the NHL Hockey scenes. If you like a story with a great script delivered brilliantly by Vince Vaughan, Jon Favreau & an ensemble cast at the top of its game, this one might just be for you. "}{"Title":"Life After OCD?","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The audience is spoonfed only one redeeming moment in the entire film our man Money finds a new babe and life turns a 180. Simple. Comb your hair, go outside. I guess it's a tad inspirational but total zip on the educational quotient.Given almost 20 years of fermenting, I soured on Favreau's talent with such a sophomoric script. He was just aching to get even with the one who got away and it shows the deepest desperation and underhanded cruelty. Very disappointed that these friends were more like mooches, used each other, mostly ignoring their emotional needs.Having difficulty discerning why nothing really happens here, save the Gretsky blood battle. I decided to watch this after an interview with Favreau and Tim Ferris, where he unabashedly was disarmed at the cult status of the film. Not sure what planet he sustains himself but this um, status, in hind sight would be an embarrassment and only admonition could prove elevating.High recommend for mega juveniles who know nothing of LA. Swingers is a complete miss out of left field. "},{"Title":"If Goodfellas was comedy...","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Swingers is about five guys who are dealing with single life in various different ways, all sharing experiences as they go from one L.A. bar to the next.That's about it. We follow their lives. A lot of people have criticised the film for having no plot. And they're right, it doesn't really. But does it matter? Only if you're really only interested in films with tight and deep plots. If you like your comedy a little on the adult side (and perhaps this film will appeal to guys over girls), plus are happy to follow these people and simply go along with the ride, you should get something out of this.It's kind of like a gangster film, but without the violence and crime. You have many long 'talkie' scenes, set around various bar tables in dingy clubs, while the protagonists sit back and discuss film trivia. This hardly drives the narrative forward, but, if you're into character pieces (and film trivia!) you should find it amusing. "},{"Title":"Memorable character","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mike (Jon Favreau) is suffering from the end of his six year relationship. He obsessively waits for her phone call as he tries to make it as a comedian. His friend Rob (Ron Livingston) from back east is struggling to get into acting. Trent (Vince Vaughn) is his talkative friend with the infamous words Vegas Baby. The gang of friends try to pick up Babies and convince Mike that he's Money.Vince Vaughn is giving a way over the top performance. Jon Favreau's character is a little sad and pathetic. Their combo is amusing until it becomes annoying. What sold me is the scene with the phone calls. The first three calls are amusing. Then the movie goes for broke and gets to another level. There is pathetic and then there is really funny pathetic. As a writer, Jon has created a memorable character with Vince. It's the second movie for director Doug Liman and pulls it all together. "},{"Title":"That PG-13 guy you root for","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Its one of those really smart 90's comedies. And one of the few really good Vince Vaughn movies that I actually like. What makes this movie work is the relatable characters it has. It involves a guy who is just trying to get over his ex girlfriend finding a new guy. And even though he's an actor/comedian he still comes off as relatable to us normal guys just trying to find somebody. Jon Favreau is great and plays well off the other few main cast members. It has its funny moments but isn't as humorous as advertised. Its well written and even has a real good ending that's ambiguous, which as a movie is extremely hard to do. I love the café seen where Vaughn thinks hes getting some weird vibe from the women, as being a fan of the Superhero Cafe on youtube is really cool to see.This movie even surprised me at some parts, because even when you think hes going to finally pull through and get a new girl the story turns and does something else. But i do think the whole story plot with the other group of guys who start a fight was a waste and not really needed for the overall story. Its also worth mentioning how likable Lorraine is as an actress. I'm interested to see if shes been in anything else worth seeing.8.0/10 "},{"Title":"This Film Is So Money!","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I finally have gotten around to watching Swingers and I believe this film will connect with all younger males such as myself. This film is about as authentic as you'll get when it comes to Hollywood and real life. I just felt like I was involved in this movie as if it was my life. The dialog is so real and believable. This indie film is funny and heartfelt as it is about bromances and these men finding their way in life.Doug Liman's film is about two friends named Trent and Mike who like to party it up in Hollywood. Mike is a wannabe actor who is coming off a six-year relationship and Trent is his friend who wants him to move on and succeed in life.This is the film that made Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn household names. I never seen Favreau as that big superstar, but he has the ability as evident by this film. He certainly is capable of an actor as he is a director. Vince Vaughn is funny and very talkative. His catchphrase involving the use of money as an adjective deserves some props even if it does get annoying after awhile.Overall, Swingers is a great comedy that has great themes of young people trying to find their way in life. It's very authentic thanks to a realistic screenplay. There are many laugh-out-loud moments and one that will hold true to your heart. For the kind of film it is, I couldn't help but love it. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite lift-my-mood-up film.","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the most bare minimum of screen-time, this movie does what it's supposed to do, and there's whole lot of fun on the way. Career, relationships, friends, whatever might be the issue you are dealing with, this one might just kick off a brainwave with the solution's idea.The first film that I gift or advise anyone to watch if someone's come out of a messy break-up, especially guys. It just hits you where it should, and never gets preachy. One more thing, for budding screenwriters and film-makers, you guys should devour this film inside out, great things can be learned just by watching this film back to back. The usage of dialogs, the chemistry between the actors, bare minimum camera movements. And a story as nicely told as they should be, in the minimum number of minutes. "},{"Title":"So money","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In addition to being a great, thoroughly enjoyable movie Swingers created its own language. Jon Favreau's script is filled with lines which make you laugh out loud even after you've heard them hundreds of times. And you probably have heard them hundreds of times because people just love quoting this movie. As well they should. Of course a great script is nothing without great performers who can turn what is written on the page into movie magic. And Swingers is blessed with a pair of performers who are absolutely perfect. One is Favreau himself and the other is of course the loud, boisterous, ultra-cool Vince Vaughn. There are a few other important performers, Ron Livingston and Heather Graham most notably having key roles to play. But the movie by and large belongs to Favreau and Vaughn. What a pairing. The back and forth dialogue between the pair absolutely sparkles and the two actors embody their characters so wonderfully. The result is a movie that is so money.Favreau plays Mike, a struggling comedian who recently moved across the country to Los Angeles. He broke up with his long-term girlfriend and to say he is having trouble letting go would be putting it mildly. His confidence is shattered, he has no success with the ladies. Vaughn plays Mike's friend Trent. This guy has no trouble with the ladies and he takes it upon himself to get Mike back in the game. With the rest of their group of friends Mike and Trent do all the things twenty-something guys do. They play video games, go to parties and bars, chase the honey babies. The contrast between Mike and Trent is always at the heart of the movie. And it is always hilarious. When looking for women Mike does everything wrong. Meanwhile Trent has women fall into his lap. You always sympathize with Mike. Who can't relate to this poor schlub? Meanwhile you always laugh with Trent. Every time the character opens his mouth comic gold spews forth. It is a very simple movie. In this case simplicity is a very good thing. The movie breezes by in a tight, fast-paced hour and a half. There are no lulls. The witty dialogue, and the great way that dialogue is performed, lets things keep crackling along. The movie has both a great look and sound to it, the Hollywood scene brought to bright and vibrant life with some great swing music. And the Hollywood theme continues with spot-on homages to some great films. Everything about the movie works. But the most important thing the movie has going for it is the tandem of Favreau and Vaughn, both so perfect for their respective characters. They give the movie its personality and what great personality indeed. Swingers is just about as much fun as a movie can be. Money. "},{"Title":"Magnificent Indie Film","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie! Towards the middle of the movie, you really start to care about Mike and feel sympathy towards him. I really like the proverbial journey that the audience goes through of seeing him, side-by-side with his friend, Trent, go through internal obstacles and get over the painful breakup with the girlfriend he once had.My favorite part is where Ron Livingston's character does a monologue about being in L.A. and moving on with your life, by thinking about the stuff you do have. Keep your eyes peeled for this scene.Overall, it's an excellent low-budget film and it keeps you hooked on, until the ending. "},{"Title":"How comedies should be done","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Swingers is the story of four wannabe actors moving to New York and trying to make it big. The main thread follows that of Mike (Favreau) who had to break off a six year relationship in New York in order to move west and pursue his dream. Six months later and he is still distraught over the break up and his friend Trent decides to teach him how to get back in the game and become 'money' (irresistible to women) as he likes to put it. In doing this they travel to Las Vegas, back street Hollywood bars and parties up mountains where Mike manages to meet women and ultimately destroy any chance of a relationship in less than an hour. The film is very relatable for most men out there who lack the confidence when talking to women compared to Trent (Vaughn's) abundance of it.The film is written by Favreau himself and I have to say the script is fantastic. The dialogue really works for the film, and the performances and delivery of the lines by the actors really help the script look great. The story is paper thin and not much to it, but the dialogue within it is brilliant and very funny. One of the scenes involving Mike ringing a girl he met in the bar that night and leaving several messages as the machine keeps cutting him off is brilliant and had me laughing in hysterics. Many of the lines done this and it was a breath of fresh air for some of the comedies released now days. Writer's need to look back at this comedy to see how it should really be done.The performances in the film are good and are perfect for the tone of this movie. The dialogue must have been hard to learn as there are many occasions when people ramble on in a rant, which is all filmed in one shot. These moments fit the film really well, especially with many tracking shots that cut off peoples head and it is as if you are actually walking behind the actors. The camera work and cinematography isn't great but it works with the film so you can get over it. This is what is great about this film is that it looks low budget and very studenty but that is what makes it such a treat. I wasn't expecting much and found myself pleasantly surprised.When you watch this film, and I say when because you so should, you will be surprised to see a really young Vince Vaughn, and if you know him Jon Favreau, with them both looking the part as normal everyday guys. I think this is one of Vaughn's first films, before he really hit stardom, and it is plain to see why he was pulled into bigger roles as he is very funny here. Favreau, by all accounts, wrote this script based on his own experience of moving to Hollywood in search of stardom, and his friends who helped him through this time. Those friends were in fact Vince Vaughn and Ron Livingstone who portray themselves with different names in this film. This was how they all were and it is easy to believe that this could be the case, with the performances, camera work, script, and cinematography really keeping the film grounded. I have to say I was pleasantly surprised by this film. It isn't the best comedy I have seen but it is one of the better ones. I think it is due to it being so relatable and different to over blown comedies out there. The film has a lot of heart and you route for the characters throughout. We are even treated to a late cameo from Heather Graham, who despite her being a little more famous than the other actors at the time, doesn't seem out of place at all, and if anything adds something special to it. There is also a fantastic final scene which had me in stitches and wrapped up the change in characters completely. I advise you to go rent this film it is very, very good.3.5 / 5For more reviews www.tolli-movieworld.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"This movie is so money!!!","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Prepare for one hell of a ride when you sit down to watch Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn paint the town red in Swingers. Mike (Favreau) is a down on his luck actor and comedian who is heartbroken over his lack of contact with his girlfriend of six years. His best friend, Trent (Vaughn), tries desperately to help him out by taking him out on the town and getting him back in the game. The film follows Mike, Trent, and their other screwball friends as they invade the neo-lounge scene looking for chicks, booze, and a good time. It surely sounds like a dull concept that can't go anywhere, but with the fast driving dialogue and hip acting the film becomes a masterpiece of suave and a pitch perfect portrayal the Los Angeles night life.Slick, smooth, and suave. That's what Swingers is. But it's not a film that gets too wrapped up in itself and it never forgets that it is a comedy. And what a comedy it is! Even in its most seemingly sincere moments Swingers is still hysterical, whether through irony or satire. It's also a higher quality brand of humor. It is true wit and true intelligence used to get a big laugh. This is a movie where you have to be hip to pop culture as there are a lot of movie references and things like that. If you don't get the reference then you don't understand the joke, thus you feel left out. But if you are savvy with those types of things then you will surely love Swingers for all of its clever humor used in uniquely hilarious ways.This film really succeeds not because it is just really funny, but because it follows a golden rule of comedy. Characters. Most of the time the characters in a comedy will do certain things just to get a laugh and they are things no normal person would ever do. Rather than actual human characters they are more vehicles for ridiculous jokes and situations. Swingers, on the other hand, does not fall victim to this common comedy occurrence. What's so great about the film is that the characters are all so real and convincing. When I watch this movie I feel like I am watching Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn out at a bar enjoying themselves. The characters in this film talk, act, and interact exactly how you would expect a group of young guys like them to act. Nothing is forced or over the top in this movie. Swingers is a film that produces an uncanny amount of authenticity, with incredibly entertaining results.This is a film all about the characters and dialogue. If it hadn't hit those two elements right on the nose then it wouldn't be half the amazing film that it is. I loved every second of this 90 minute film and I'm sure I'll spend plenty of time quoting the movie, calling this and that So money! Seldom do you find comedies this smart and this hilarious at the same time. This film only furthers my longing to live in LA now that I've seen such a perfectly authentic portrayal of the bouncing and wild night life that Swingers details. "}{"Title":"Swingers 101","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For starters, everybody is entitled to their own opinion, hence the term 'Beauty is in the eye of the beholder'. I had heard of this movie back in the 90's but didn't actually watch it until only a couple of years ago because I remembered a friend telling me that it was great. And I must say, I absolutely LOVED it and laughed my A*s-off.I moved near L.A. (at age 26) in late '94 and moved away from there in late 96' (essentially when the movie was being made there and roughly around when it was released). Though I never went dancing, let alone at 'The Derby', the whole 'Swing' aspect is really just background atmosphere and a catchy title. But the movie worked for me on many levels because of it's honest take on guys (buddies) being 'guys' and trying to pick each other up during the trials of heartbreak and subsequent dating.Trent (Vaughn), is a guy who's a little too 'Cocksure' about how he fits in with the times for his own good. His character intentionally gets on the viewers nerves (baby and Money every other word) as well as Mike's nerves (Favreau) for a reason. The ending.There are some scenes a viewer will find even MORE amusing if he/she were indeed 20-something living in, or around L.A. during the mid 90's, but this is by no means a prerequisite for enjoying the film, you'll just find it THAT much more amusing is all.If your a guy who has ever hung out with his buds, playing video games, partying, and trying to pick up girls at bars and clubs, you will most likely love this film, it is definitely more of a guy flick. If your a 30-40 something year old female who lived in L.A. around this time you'll probably love it as well.I won't go into details about everything I found funny in the film (and there's lots), but the scene with Mike leaving phone messages for the girl he just met an hour or so before was one of the funniest and well played scenes I think I've ever seen in a comedy. There are some on this board who said they HATE that Scene which totally baffles me? The only reason I can think of as to why they would say that is that they too (at some point in their lives) were 'that' insecure and desperate that it hurts them to to see our beloved protagonist in such an uncomfortable scenario. Well I say, Lighten up folks, it's a movie and a brilliantly written AND acted scene by Favreau.I like many movies made from different time periods and genres and this 'independent' gem is on my top 25 All-Time list for it's honesty, it's humor and it's good-natured take on being in your 20's, out of college, on your own, out of work and out of luck in 'Love'.If you can relate to any of the above, watch this movie, either alone or with some friends, you WILL laugh and you WILL relate. "},{"Title":"Comedy is Pathos","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My brother had never seen this movie, so I made him watch it recently. I talked it up a bit, how funny it was, etc... It had been awhile since I had seen it, and it was totally different than I remembered it. I guess now that I'm older, I realized how incredibly sad this movie is. I mean, yes, it is very funny at times, but over the course of the movie you realize how pathetic Vince Vaughn's character truly is. Man, one's outlook changes as they enter their late 20's from that of their early 20's. Of course watching it sober might make the difference as well. ) Jon Favreu's(sp?)character, I think, realizes this and decides to move on. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Everything I love about independent film","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Swingers is one of my favorites of all-time, and the first movie I actually purchased on DVD, and I hold it dear to this day. What Sex and the City has done for women as far as expressing the underlying feminine reality of modern day city gals, Swingers does the same for men and maybe even exceeds these myths. It provides a certain truth about what it is that guys do when being guys and what it is that guys think about for that matter when not drooling over a half-naked female in a halter top and leather pants ensemble at some trendy hot-spot on Melrose. The script is top notch, all of the comedy plays, and as far as acting is concerned; all of the characters in the movie are late 20 something guys looking to become future actors in Hollywood (ironic, eh?), and they are outstanding. The flick is well written, well acted, well done and clever as can be, but best of all, it is absolutely horrible shot. Probably one of the worst shot films in the history of the medium. And thats it's most charming attribute. 70% of it is out of focus, and the other 30% is mis- framed, yet the editing is so genius, and the characters are so entertaining, that the storytelling overrides all of the formal inadequacies.And that's what independent film is all about; find a great story, try to tell it in a unique and interesting manner, f*ck it up a bunch along the way, and if it's truly good enough, let it stand on it's own two feet.I applaud this movie's existence. "},{"Title":"1990s Rock and Roll","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mike and Trent are about to hit the big time, give or take a few months of working Starbucks to pay the bills. Trent - Vaughan, in a minor breakout role - is a bundle of starry-eyed, testosterone propelled energy working the back (and Front) streets of LA to further his career and gene pool. Favreau's Mike on the other hand is still trying to upright himself from a wiped out relationship and hasn't got the mojo for the perpetual party.The men need each other though - Trent needs Mike to listen to his stream of consciousness about their transferable value (how 'money' they are) and Mike wants someone to be a sounding board for his woe. In an unfortunate, if hackneyed sequence his need becomes so great that he turns to his ex's answering machine until the tape runs out...It's a film which manages to catch something of the energy of Tinseltown's periphery and has a great deal of fun with two friends who have obviously just made it playing two friends who obviously haven't. It's also got fantastic performances from the garishly clothed swing band Big Bad Voodoo Daddy. 5/10 "},{"Title":"True to life, and a work of genius","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think in order to fully appreciate the genius of Swingers you have to have lived as a twentysomething single in Los Angeles, otherwise a lot of the best references are just going to go over your head.  Stuff like everybody caravaning to a party in their own car, that's so true.  Women at parties who ask what kind of car you drive, and if you give the wrong answer you've just turned yourself invisible -- yup, that happens too. Unemployed guys out about town trying to pick up women by calling themselves producers -- been there, done that.I can't think of any other movie that I can relate to as completely as this movie, and that alone makes it an all-time favorite.  The thing about Swingers is that it's loosely written around the retro lounge scene that had been percolating in L.A. and San Francisco since the late-80s.  It's really a frozen moment -- being single in Los Angeles in the mid-90s --  and it captures that moment about as well as any movie I've ever seen document a particular slice of life in a particular place at a particlar time.All of those bars and bands featured in the movie were real and in their natural element.  Marty and Elaine still play the Dresden, The Derby still has swing nights (although Big Bad Voodoo Daddy has since gone onto platinum charters and playing much bigger stages, and doesn't do the Wednesday residency at the Derby anymore), and the best bars in town are still the ones with no signs.  The dancers at The Derby were actual regulars that I've seen before.  Even a detail as mundane as a Pink Dot convenience delivery, the movie got right.  And yes, hotties on the caliber of a Heather Graham did show up regularly on Derby swing nights, and a regular guy can dance with them if they know how to.But, even if you've never set foot in L.A., there are still so many great scenes in Swingers that are at times painfully true to life.  The answering machine scene with Mikey and Nikki -- I've done that faux pas before and still cringe at the thought of it.  The fights over a stupid video game, that's also close to the truth.  Guys you fighting with in a parking lot a few nights earlier become your best buddies later on, that happens too.I read a lot of reviews that criticize the film for having no point or plot, but to me the point of the movie was to create a quasi-documentary masquerading as a comedy.  Expecting a movie that depicts life in L.A. as some kind of linear logical storyline, with a conventional plot structure would completely miss the mark and come across as contrived.  Just show a day in the life of a transplant living in L.A., his struggles, his friends, his activities, his pratfalls, his triumphs, etc.  Mikey's story is like thousands of others in L.A., and I can fully relate to his character.  And that the film can make an audience laugh with Mikey, while never getting overhandedly meanspirited or making him overly sympathetic, is what makes it great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Vegas baby Vegas  (quoted spoiler)","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was so Money and they know it. Well made, great acting, some good laughter, and it was just money what can i say.9/10 ....i know it should be a 10 and it is but the filming was kind of like the t.v series 'undressed' on MTV dont get me wrong Swingers is one of the classics.tagged for RENT it. BUY it. LOVE IT. "},{"Title":"Intense, High-Octane Entertainment","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Alright, maybe it's not anywhere near intense or high-octane at all...but I bet I got your attention.Before you read, there may be a few comments in this review that, I suppose, can be considered spoilers (though I wouldn't classify then that way). So, if you really want to go into the movie knowing absolutely nothing, you may not want to read further.Swingers is the kind of movie that you can watch over and over again just because of the vibe it sends out during its duration.  You watch Mike and Trent and the rest of the guys hanging out all the time, bulls****ing, playing Sega Genesis, talking about and trying to pick up girls and you automatically relate to them (well, the guys in the audience will anyways). Think about how you feel after just lounging around with your friends, talking about nothing in particular and then calling it an early night. That's exactly how you feel after watching Swingers. It has one of the great anti-climactic endings of all time, as well as one of the funniest scenes that I have ever seen in a movie (answering machine sequence).  The characters are surprisingly complex for a film of this type.  Trent is the perfect example of the asshole friend that you hang around with all the time, but you don't know why. And Mike is the textbook down on his luck, wrapped up in a depressing love, sidekick that Trent loves to first belittle and then console.Overall...great movie...very cool...very entertaining...highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Funny Funny.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every aspect of the movie hits the mark. This movie doesn't strive to be cool. The joke is the way the characters in the movie consider themselves to be men about town. They're just guys with no idea trying to score but always believing that as a group they're something akin to the rat pack. Witness the entrance to the party where the boys stand in the entrance way and the crowd turns and looks at them briefly before going back to ignoring them.  "},{"Title":"this movie is so money and people dont even know it!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i watched this movie last night on tv i wasn't even pushed to watch it since i hadn't heard anything about it but i luckily decided i would and all i can say about swingers is 'VEGAS BABY VEEEEEGAS!!''  this movie is so funny i cant believe it!  the cast is excellent vince vaughan rocks in this movie he is so funny  the script is top class,     listen just rent then buy  swingers coz this movie is so!! money and people dont even know it!! "},{"Title":"absolutely INCREDIBLE","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers is one of the  very few films that i have enjoyed watching time and time again.  Both Jon Favreau's script and performance are impeccable.  The character of Michael Peters, struggling to overcome the loss of his college sweetheart, perfectly complements Vince Vaughn's Trent Walker, the 'fun-loving, out-going party guy', who pulls girls wherever he goes. Easily one of the funniest comedies ever written, Swingers is the epitome of an undescovered secret, for it certainly deserves a renown it does not have; simply put, it is a riot. "}{"Title":"Third Greatest Movie of all time","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  BehindGodfather II and Apocalypse NowNot much more to say then what has already been posted.  I personally am in love with this film due to the honest and relatible dialogue, humor and dimension to the characters.  This movie is not original in plot or deep in meaning, but it does not try to be so; what is does do is show a slice of life of guys who could be or I would want to be my friends.  "},{"Title":"This movie is money, Baby!!!","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    Swingers is by far the hippest movie made in recent history.  Though it is set Hollywood and Las Vegas this movie manages to capture the spirit of these swingin' spots without shoving them down the viewer's throat.  John Favreau and Vince Vaughn (Mike and Trent respectively) manage to play their parts to perfection as the pathetic love sick romantic and the buddy who's main goal in life is to get Mikey to realize how money he really is.  By dragging Mikey out to the parties and clubs and almost forcing him to talk to the ladies Trent finally makes Mikey realize that there is happiness after his ex-old lady.   There are a number of qualities that make this a good film.  The most noticeable is the dialogue among Trent and Mikey's group of friends.  This group of aspiring actors/comedians has a very unique outlook on life and a language all their own, much of which depends on the word money as a noun, verb, and pronoun.  While the overuse of any word usually becomes monatonous after a few minutes, the characters in Swingers manage to consistently use this word in a fresh and entertaining way.  Furthermore, the party scenes in the movie were incredible.  Rather than glamorize the Hollywood scene Swingers manages to maintain a certain level of reality throughout.  The music in the movie was also great.  One scene features Mikey breaking out of his shell by swing dancing to the sounds of Big Bad Voodoo Daddy with a money baby he just met.  What really made this movie for me, however, was Mikey's transformation from a pathetic, heart-broken sucker into a self-confident player who finally realizes that what he has in life is far more important than what he doesn't have.  This movie is a must see for anyone who has ever been a sucker for love, likes to party, or just enjoy's a hip, fresh comedy.  While this is not the kind of film that will change the world it will definitely entertain from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"So money!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In 1996, unconventional-looking actor Jon Favreau set out to make a film he had written with $250,000 director Doug Liman had access to and a cast comprising his similarly oddly-visaged actor buddies. The rest, as they say, is history. The shoot went brilliantly, Liman did a better job than anyone could have hoped and the film was very well received all over the world. Nearly five years on and people are still discovering it, watching it and loving it. Why is that? Why does Swingers deserve to become an all-time classic?For starters, the characters are fantastic. All exaggerated versions of the actors who play them, they instantly ring a bell &#150; you know people just like them, you even identify with one or two. Favreau plays Mike, a stand-up comic struggling to find work and get over his girlfriend. He's under-confident, but his friends know he's money. His best friend, Trent (Vince Vaughn), is the ûber-ladies' man &#150; so confident it's like the Jedi mind s***. The boy can talk, what can I say? There's Sue (Patrick Van Horn), a wannabe bad dude, Rob (Ron Livingston), who's just moved out to L.A. and Charles (Alex Desert), the coolest cat west of New Orleans.The story, if you can call it that, follows Trent's attempts to get Mikey back in the game. They start by going to Las Vegas to find some beautiful baby cocktail waitresses. This serves to introduce us to the two central characters and their world- view, which is fine. It gets better when they go back to L.A. and hang out, playing golf and Sega hockey, partying and going to bars and clubs. It's all very sharply observed, with some great little homages to Tarantino and Scorsese. It paints a great picture of a very cool town, with the dialogue just drawing you in. Let Swingers into your life &#150; watch it a few times with your best mates and I guarantee you'll love it forever. Or your money back.  "},{"Title":"A True Hidden Gem","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is perhaps the most honest, humorous and insightful movie ever made about 20-something men and relationships. In spite of a low profile during it's cinematic run, Swingers has reached the status of cult classic, and deservedly so.  The story centers on a fledgling actor - portrayed flawlessly by John Favreau - who is still trying to cope with the pain of a not-so-recent breakup.  Vince Vaughn is outstanding as the best friend determined to build his confidence and get him back in the game.  But perhaps the most enduring part of this movie are the phrases that will forever be in the lexicon of all who have had the pleasure of watching this wonderfully scripted film (You're so money baby, and you don't even know it!).  Even the soundtrack was superior - so much so that it warranted a second album of music from and inspired by the movie.  Favreau, who also wrote and produced, has firmly established himself as a capable film maker.  "},{"Title":"One of the top ten on my list","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers goes down as one of the top ten on my list of truly great films. It was in the year that indies ruled the oscars and went virtually unnoticed by audiences. It seems to have found a comfortable home though on video. Swingers chronicles the ups and downs and more downs of Mike, a neurotic good guy suffering post-breakup with his girlfriend. He lives in L.A. where he hangs out with his group of other wannabe actor buddies who try to show him a good time. Most of these efforts from Trent who tries to cheer Mike up. Swingers featured then unknowns Jon Favreau, Vince Vaughn, Heather Graham, and Ron Livingston who have shown up in almost everything now. Not to mention director Doug Liman. It's a truly great film that a lot of guys will like and will be quoting for a long time. "},{"Title":"this film breaks all the rules, bravo. three stars ***","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    John Favreau has baffled big time hollywood. This film has no car chases, no nudity, nothing gets blown up, and no digitized special effects, and yet it is a great film. A character study of men, not the men that you women know as husbands and boyfriends. This movie breaks even more rules, as Favreau takes us inside the secret society of Guy's Night Out, he exposes the way we think, the way we speak, what we search for when we are out and away from the women in our lives. This film is an alltogether honest portrayal, of relationships between friends and lovers. An interesting look at the Los Angeles we never see in films, the underground life of the struggling actors and writers and less glamorous people, not living in Malibu opulence as seen in other weaker films. Vince Vaughn is cast perfectly, and flourishes in his role. Favreau is a generous man and doesn't hog all the best lines for himself. There are many good lines in this script, and delivered with subtlety and dead on timing.  Three Stars out of a possible four.   "},{"Title":"The most hip movie ever made","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is something that almost everyone can relate to. Everyone can relate to one of the characters from this film, whether it's Trent, Mike, Sue, Rob, or Charles.Trent is the definition of cool. While Mike is the shy guy that doesn't know how cool he is. And finally, Sue is the ill tempered type that you just have to like. These characters are embodiments of the different kinds of people living in the '90's.This movie redefined dating for everyone who saw it. With it's 2 days rule and being so cool and not even knowing it. This movie also teaches the lesson to live a little, take chances and most of all, have fun with life. "},{"Title":"Modern Day Classic Comedy","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is funny and classy, unlike most of the comedy movies that are out today.  'Swingers' proved that films don't have to be vulgar and obscene to draw audiences' attention.  Movies like 'American Pie' needed to use cheap form of entertainment such as nudity and vulgarness bringing in people to the theatre, whereas 'Swingers' used witty script and talent of actors as strength to charm the fans.  For anyone who wants to watch a hilarious classic-style comedy that's not filmed towards the MTV audience, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Mad movie! Its sooo money!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you like movies with catchy dialogue, and like all the fuss surrounding the movie business, then this is for you. Most people I have shown it too have hated it, except for close friends. But they try to see more than the movie is. It doesn't try to be more than just a movie, it just potters along and does what it wants. It doesn't hurt anybody, doesn't try to anyway. Its just a cool little movie, and one of my favourites. Check it out. You won't be disappointed. Or maybe you will.  "},{"Title":"Great nightlife fun!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think in the first 1/2 hour of the movie, many people have problems getting over Trent's use of the word baby.  Once you get past that, this is a pretty entertaining film.  We get to see Mikey's progression through the break-up process.One note Watching the scene with Mike leaving several messages on Nikki's answering machine is literally PAINFUL to watch!  I guess it just illustrates how mired in living in the past Mike really was.All in all, you'll find yourself rooting for Mike and also having a well-deserved laugh at Trent's expense at the end.I also must say that this movie can also be a learning experience.  It literally changed my brother's whole outlook on the world of dating.  He used to be a Mikey; now he's a total Trent. "}{"Title":"Vaughn and Favreau are awesome","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the most funny and 'real' films ever made. The writing is awesome and it could have been a boring movie, because of the lack in plot, but it was completely opposite that. I have seen this movie over fifty times and I suggest that you go out and buy the DVD. Truly unforgettable......10/10. "},{"Title":"Definitely Money","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best all-time guy movies. (Fortunately, I have met a few females who enjoyed it too) Just about everyone I've watched it with has loved it, because it has so many real situations that people can identify with. It's about getting over heartache; it's about friendship; it's about finding beautiful babies who are ready to party. What more could anyone ask for?  "},{"Title":"A good example to the rest of Hollywood","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is the perfect example of how you don't need a huge budget, expensive FX, the biggest stars and a massive publicity machine to make a great movie that will stand the test of time. All you need is the right script and the right people. Everything that happens in this film is so true and so funny but it is the lead character Mike who grabs you from the start. I've watched this film hundreds of times and it entertains me every time. A truly wonderful story. "},{"Title":"This movie has one of the best scenes ever!","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The EA Hockey scene is brilliant!  This the guy movie all women should watch... "},{"Title":"Great film, should of been longer","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very well written and acted.  Vince Vaughn at his best here and all the guys are just so fun to watch.  That's its only flaw, you like the characters so much that when it's over you want so much more.  It could be up to 20 hours long for all I care, you just want more and more.  Great film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"It's so the money baby! (and they make Wayne Gretsky's head bleed)","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is so the money! It is funny sad and exciting all in one film. It is so funny because it isn't outlandish it is very realistic in it's portrayal of the characters I love John Favreu and Vince Vaughn and everyone else. RENT IT TONIGHT! "},{"Title":"This movie is so money, and not a lot of people know it","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is part of the growing independent-movies-that-are-so-cool-you-needn't-bother-going-to-see-mainstream-rubbish-anymore genre.It all began with Sex, Lies and Videotape, the movie that started the indepedent-films-are-cool movement.  Then it was Clerks that extended that to independent-films-are-cooler-and-better-than-mainstream-films and now with the addition of Swingers we have the ultimate, unofficial Independent Trilogy.Swingers is really a great movie because like Clerks the dialogue is interesting and stimulating, and if there's something about Clerks that you could complain about, it'd be the poor (but understandable) quality, and Swingers corrects this by providing slick acting, and cool dialogue as well as some characters that will stick in our minds for a long time.Long before people starting saying SHOW ME THE MONEY! from Jerry Macguire, we were saying simply MONEY and as usual after about three weeks we realised how stupid we looked because NONE OF THE PEOPLE IN OUR IMMEDIATE AREA HAD SEEN IT.Do yourself a favour, if you haven't seen Swingers - see it, and if you have - see it again. "},{"Title":"Perfect Ten","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers gets a perfect ten from me.  I do not understand how anyone can bash it.  For one thing, it's funny, very funny.  I related with the slang, not because I talk like that, but because I understand that my friends and I have slang that's different but sounds just as strange to an outsider. Also, the acting is unbelievable.  I know who Trent is.  I have friends that are Trent, and some that are Mike.  Aside from the realistic acting, Swingers has a somewhat solid plot that is a perfect vehiclefor smart conversation.  If you don't care for Mike at the end of the picture, you must have a heart of stone.  In closing, Swingers is a perfect ten, and it goes on my list as my favorite comedy of all time. "},{"Title":"Hate to say it, but, IT'S THE MONEY!!!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Only hate to say it because it's soooo shop-worn by now.  For me, this movie was a sleeper.  I only watched it at the insistence of my teenage daughter. I am 45 years old, always an avid movie- goer (and armchair critic), and thought this was going to be yet another mediocre 20-something sit-com that I really didn't care to try to relate to.  I was VERY wrong.  Right from the opening I was pleased by the images, music and style.  I am very much looking forward to more product from this director, and I think the main actors -- especially Vince and Jon -- were very interesting and appealing.  I predict Jon, with the right projects, could go quite far.  His timing is wonderful!  His facial expressions are on the money!  I think Vince might garner more (well-deserved) kudos, but Jon is an extremely talented young artist that I am very much looking forward to seeing more of.  "},{"Title":"greatest movie ever","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie Swingers is by far and away the most enjoyable movie that I've ever seen,  I can watch every day and not get sick of it.  It's just so realistic that any guy who's ever gone out on the swinging scence can relate, it's that real.  SEE THE MOVIE! "}{"Title":"It was like So Jedi Mind S*** about the L.A. scene","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just got through reading the user comments regarding this movie and let me just say that all of you people (who are not from nor have ever lived in Los Angeles) don't even know how on the Money this movie was about the L.A. Nightlife and Wannabe actors.   Being a native Angeleno-Slash-Actor and actually hanging out at all of these places and knowing alot of people like the ones in the movie, well my hat's off to everyone responsible for this little gem.  You people don't even know how many Inside jokes you probably missed (i.e. 310 area code Growing up in Anaheim Parties that start at eight but you don't get there until 12am The Pink Dot delivery guy and many more) but yet you were able to get every other one without missing a beat.  It seems to me that Jon F. tried to go overboard with the Stereo Typical L.A. nuances but in doing so, he is not even close to being over the top with it!  Unlike Steve Martin's take of Los Angeles with the movie L.A. Story (Think of Mikey's results after making numerous calls to Nikki) which didn't translate with anyone who had half a brain, Swingers made up for it by Doing that Thing with the Thing! "},{"Title":"It's so F**KIN' MONEY! I don't even think it knows it...","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When this movie came out in theatres, I was there opening night. When it showed up at my video store, I rented it that Friday. I continued to rent it at least once a month for every month thereafter, and when my Blockbuster-employed friend informed me that it would soon be available at a take-home price, well, you're damn straight that I bugged him until the damn thing went on sale. This is quite simply my favorite movie ever. Better than ANYHTING, swear to God. Not only is it just a really, REALLY money movie with many, MANY cool scenes, but I can also rattle on to my friends and even conduct entire conversations with my friends with dialogue directly from this movie and they have NO clue what language I'm speaking. Especially creepy are the video game hockey scenes...it's like looking into a mirror of swing. Really though, Liman, Favreau, Vaughn, everyone outdid themselves on this one with dry, convincing performances, incredible writing and just a really hip ambiance. See this movie or consider yourself business class. "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie, but forgettable","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first watched Swingers about two years ago (picked it up in a two pack of DVDs) and quickly forgot about it. It sat on my shelf forever before I noticed it again and decided to watch it. Swingers is a movie about Mike Peters, who has moved to Los Angeles to become an actor, leaving his longtime girlfriend in the process. This movie is about Mike's friends trying to help him get over her, and bring him into the LA club scene.The movie was written by Jon Favreau based on his experiences in moving out to LA. Favreau plays Mike, while his best friend Trent is played by Vince Vaughn. Being friends in real life brings great chemistry between Favreau and Vaughn in the movie. The guys are hilarious together. Most guys will relate to the friendships populating this movie.The movie is fun while you're watching it, but, at least for me, it is forgotten shortly after the credits have rolled. The movie isn't bad, it just never left a lasting impression with me. "},{"Title":"Tripe from start to finish. Unlikeable characters.","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nothing interesting goes on in this movie. Nothing funny. No likable characters. Terrible acting; faces like stone. Endless idiotic bickering. Even the sets are uninteresting. I gave it until the first commercial break and then let it finish as background noise while I finished a proofreading, occasionally glancing at the movie to see if the director should have changed his mind to the better, but the disappointment was the same at every glimpse. What's the idea with this movie? I don't get it. Did I overlook something? Like the director had to fill the movie with something, so I am told by the system that I have to fill in some more lines for this comment to be allowed. I hope these last phrases do the job. "},{"Title":"One of that  years worst films!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To sum it up, and put it in a mild way, this movie is just horrible! The acting is pitiful, the script absurd, the directing pathetic, the actors untalented, and the story is nonexistent! I hated this movie. Its stupid!!! The writer of this film felt that instead of a coherent story line, he'd use toilet-based, rock-jock jokes, tetosterone laced bumbles and moron antics to weave a nothing of a story about wannabe actors attempts to cheer up a friend whos 6-year relationship just went belly up. Yawn! So without a story, without any likable characters, without inspired directing, without talented cast and crew the viewer is left with celluloid trash! Its hard to imagine who would like this film, but there are people who do. Hummm! Most of them seem to be moron guys who are balding failures. Hummm! Whatever. Showgirls had more artistic merit!!! "},{"Title":"Real Swingers","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is a joke i hated it and the title swingers is misued, swingers are primarily couples that swap partners for intercourse, for more on this is what the encyclopedia has to say - http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swinging. So two lonely guys trying to get laid in a caravan is really not representing the title of this movie at all. The acting is also at best mediocre and the one liners are tacky. I do not recommend this movie to anyone, it demeans swingers, single guys and single women. Looking at the comments I cannot perceive how anyone enjoyed this or found it funny, everyone to their own I guess, but don't tell me i haven't warned you "},{"Title":"A bit slight but quite enjoyable and money","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When released in 1996, Swingers became an indie film sensation on par with Sex, Lies, and Videotape and Reservoir Dogs earlier. To be honest, it didn't really deserve that status, because it doesn't have the power either of those flicks held. Still, its quite enjoyable and easy to see why it became a favorite among dissatisfied twenty something males, with whom the flick touched a nerve. The characters spend their time cruising the hip nightspots of Hollywood trying to pick up chicks, and often failing either due to their bloated egoism or social awkwardness. Some critics of the film thought it was a bit misogynistic, and maybe it was, but it was also a rather accurate depiction of how many males in similar circumstances feel.The technical credits all around are quite good for a low-budget picture. The direction by Doug Liman isn't anything extraordinary, but it keeps the film moving at a quick pace. Its a shame that after this and the equally enjoyable Go, he graduated to lousy mainstream products. The script by Jon Favreau is full of memorable dialog, classic scenes, and surprisingly a sympathetic protagonist. As the main character, Favreau creates a likable individual. Its a shame he didn't become the star that Vince Vaughn did. Vaughn is charismatic here, but hasn't really done anything worthwhile since. All in all, this isn't an extremely powerful motion picture or anything like that, but its a breezy and amusing way to kill an hour and a half. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Very relatable and surprisingly perceptive for a comedy","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While the title and publicized images may pass Swingers off as a gimmicky comedy, the film is a lot more down to earth than one might expect.The film stars Jon Favreau, who plays a struggling comedian in L.A. named Mike that has just ended a serious relationship of six years. He turns to his buddies--the most important two of which are played by Vince Vaughn and Ron Livingston--to help him get back on his feet again.Favreau, who makes his debut as a writer and producer with the film, delivers a performance and screenplay that are very natural and realistic. While there is no gut-wrenching humor in the script nor in any one actor's performance, (though we see the roots of Vaughn's now thriving over-the-top comedic success in the film) it is clever through the painful reality of a single man who is clearly having troubles moving on with other women. We laugh at Favreau's struggle, but ultimately it is a result of identification with the social unease his character feels. Most comedies have you laughing at other characters, but many times in Swingers we find we're really laughing at ourselves, something that does not happen often in comedy, which allows for enough serious conversation to enter the film while at the same time not feeling overbearing like a drama might. Though Vaughn's advice and Favreau's pick-up skills are clearly laughable, there is a reality to them that strikes a chord.It is easy to want Swingers to be over-the-top and full of belly laughs, but it must be looked at as something else. The film could have done with a few bigger laughs and still managed to keep the overall down-to-earth tone, but the truth is it is more about the comedy of real life, which while not as entertaining, is much more honorable in many ways. As a result, it may not ever be known as a great 90s comedy, but it will not go completely overlooked. "},{"Title":"Jon Favreau and Vince Vauhn are great in this low key comedy","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Swingers is about a comedian named Mike who has moved from New York to L.A. in search of being a star and to shake off his depression over the break up of him and his girlfriend 6 months back. His friends (Trent, Rob, Sue, and Charles)try to help him out by taking him to bars across L.A. in search of a better girl. Swingers is a good movie. The performances were all good, especially by the two main characters, Jon Favreau as Mike and Vince Vaughn as Trent. The direction by Doug Liman (Go) and the script written by Favreau is terrific. They put a lot of great work into this low budget comedy. Overall, swingers is a fun film that is highly enjoyable. I recommend it.Hedeen's Outlook 8/10 *** B "},{"Title":"good","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I never appreciated it at first, but I feel it's a great icon of the 90's and will last with time.If anyone in this World has felt loss of a past relationship, this is good for You.If You've ever not gotten over some person that you spent some time with (maybe a lot) than this film is for You.If You wan't some ending to a unhappy life that you need to escape from then...good movie and stuff.If You like to laugh at comedy and don't care for the cheese, then You'd like this one.People who like to party and go out to different places will like this one... Roadtrip Films for example.If you like to get wasted or DONT like being that way then it still has something.Even Women (movie is geared towards Men) can enjoy a journey into the mind of loss and the positive outlook towards being free with yourself.Are there rules to dating? When has something gone too far? There are so many questions in the dating World. "}{"Title":"Swingers definitely going to be a classic!","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only thing I have to say is that this movie is going to be a classic on my list. You knew Vince Vaughn was heading in the right direction starring in this movie, look at him in Wedding Crashers!!!This is definitely a movie I can watch again and again. It reminds me of me and my friends and the good old days. You know how some movies you can relate to or some movies hold special memories? This is one of them. I know this may sound absurd but bring on a sequel, lol. I've never laughed harderRobwww.swingular.com "},{"Title":"A definitive and essential 90s film","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off, this film is ESSENTIAL viewing for any twenty-something male. Just needed to start with that.Swingers is probably the definitive sleeper/cult hit for non-geeks. It is also probably one of the most decade-defining films of the 90s. Now I realise that is a grand statement, but I also believe it is a justified one. It details the lives (or at least night lives) of a group of single twenty-something guys living in Los Angeles in the mid 1990s. They go out, get a little bit drunk and try to meet women, and it makes for some entertaining, but uncomfortably accurate viewing. All guys will recognise at least a part of themselves in one of the main characters; either the brash and extremely self-assured Trent or the sweet but very self-conscious and slightly needy Mike as they try, with varying degrees of success, to meet women and get them into bed.Mike (Jon Favreau, who also wrote the screenplay) has recently broken up with his girlfriend of six years and just wants her to call him. However his friend Trent (Vince Vaughn) is only interested in getting laid, as are their friends Sue (Patrick Van Horn) Rob (Ron Livingston) and Charles (Alex Desert). If any girls are curious as to what guys get up to and how they behave on a typical lads night out, here is a good example of their group dynamic. They're all on the pull, but they back each other up as well and encourage, congratulate or console each other when needed. But for guys, this is the perfect antidote to a chick-flick, without having to resort to a violent action or science-fiction film.The film is genuinely funny, but also by turns toe-curlingly embarrassing (Mike's early self-pitying and his one-way conversation/relationship with a girl's answering machine in the space of a few calls in a few minutes), possibly because at least part of it rings an uncomfortable note of truth. It's the film's unashamed honesty, coupled with a deep underlying almost child-like innocence at the heart of the main character as he tries to get over his ex that make the film a joy to watch.Swingers also created some extremely memorable and quotable dialogue, including 'Vegas baby', 'beautiful babies' and 'you're so money'. Also watch for a terrific speech from Trent, telling Mike to be the guy out of the R-rated movie, not the one from the PG-13 movie. It really captures the essence (if not the actual vocabulary) of how guys boost each other's confidence on a night on the town.This is one of my favourite films, not only because the story itself rings rather true and familiar with me, but also because I feel completely comfortable in the company of these characters on the screen. At the end of the day they are just a group of normal guys discussing normal guy things &#150; girls, movies, girls, work, girls, bars, and girls. The characters feel real, not only because they are in an ordinary situation, but because they are a diverse group and have real depth. What I particularly love is how Jon Favreau's character discussing movies is mirrored in Favreau's scripting of the film; he cheekily manages to make homage-style references to other films. One of the best shots of the film is as the group sit round a table playing poker and comparing the merits of Quentin Tarantino's films, the camera pans round focusing on each of their faces, calling to mind the scene at the breakfast bar at the opening of Reservoir Dogs itself. He immediately follows this with a tongue-in-cheek shot of the guys walking down the street in the style of Madsen, Keitel, Roth et al in the same film. There is also a lovely tribute to Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas as they guys skip the queue at a club and enter through the back, passing through a series of kitchens and corridors, greeting the staff as they go &#150; much like Ray Liotta did in the original film. These and other references are what make the film so fun. With these discussions of, and homages to movies, I feel right at home with these guys who so obviously share my interest.I cannot write a review of Swingers however without drawing reference to the soundtrack, which is a separate, vibrant entity. At the time of the film's release a revival of swing music was underway in America, and the clubs of this film echo the beginnings of this revival, showcasing some real neo-swing bars in LA that have gone on to become extremely famous. The music is fantastic and it is just a shame that the revival did not gather more pace in the wake of this film. However, the band playing in the final club, Big Bad Voodoo Daddy, are one of the best examples of the neo-swing sound, and it was through them that I discovered I loved this kind of music. So for introducing me to them, I thank Mr Favreau.Although this was Favreau's film, Vince Vaughn was the real winner out of this, as a certain Mr Spielberg spotted him in this and immediately cast him in Jurassic Park The Lost World, and he has never since looked back. And I defy anyone to not fall in love with Heather Graham in this film; any twenty-something bloke who says he doesn't is either gay, dead inside, or simply lying.Again, this film is essential viewing for any twenty-something male, and for anyone serious about being a movie nut. "},{"Title":"At least its not Goofy....","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To adapt a quote from a Sally Struthers infomercial is the essence of this movie; Remember when we were single. Sure. We all do. For me this is the quintessential singles/dating scene movie, for my demographic (namely 21-34 year olds dating in the 90's). That is probably why I can relate so well to its subject and why I like the movie so much (and why Saturday Night Fever is a good movie, but feels somewhat dated to me).The story revolves around Mike (Jon Favreau), his group of cohorts and their various adventures. Mike has lived most of his life in New York and has recently (6-12 months) moved to Los Angeles to get a boost in his career (he's a comedian). In the process, his relationship with his girlfriend of 6 years is terminated. So in essence we get the fish out of water story. Mike is in a new city, has a few friends, his career is slow and he can't seem to buy a date.His peers consist of the leader Trent (Vince Vaughn), a boy named Sue, Mike's Goofy friend from back east Rob (aka the guy from Office Space) and the guy who could have been Commander Sisko, Charles. Mike is the focus,however, and the group is his peer counsel.Mike seems to have trouble talking to women and can't seem to let go of his ex. Trent is constantly supporting him and encouraging him. This is by far, Vince Vaughn's best role and the prototype for most of the roles he has had since with the exception of Norman Bates (I'm not sure where he got the motivation for that). Trent is a player. He isn't the PG-13 guy, but rather the Rate R guy. He's likable without being the nice guy. Trent is the leader and he leads by example. He knows how to play the game. He knows all the hidden rules, body language,etc of the dating game. He tries to impart some of that knowledge onto Mike. For the majority of the movie, Mike is just sulking or awkwardly trying to use what Trent has taught him. Its not the Mike is not experienced, he is just out of practice and not in touch with the LA scene. To quote Trent  You are so money. Mike's quest is to gain the inner confidence to go with the money exterior. This is the hysterical ride of the movie.This movie is also a plethora of potent quote-ables  You're like a big bear man. This place is dead anyway. Our baby's all growns up now. You're so money and you don't even know it. I'm gonna make Gretzky's head bleed for super fan 99 over here.Always double down on 11. This movie is all about the quotes. Some of the best dialog occurs between the characters. It is quite funny and sometimes true. You can't help but laugh and at the same time think (or say, or even take notes) yeah, that works or I remember when something like that happened to me.Well as you can imagine, Mike eventually gets the confidence (through much trial and error) and starts getting the attention of the opposite sex. For me, the thing I will remember always, is not to be a Mike. Namely, the scene in the movie where Mike calls Nikki and proceeds to leave messages on her answering machine. Never do this. And remember to wait at least 2 days before calling a girl you just met, always double down on 11 (blackjack), and VEGAS BABY!! VEGAS!! "},{"Title":"What a cracking film...","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Vince Vaughn again at his very best, this film is funny from start to finish. It propelled Vince to stardom, as we have seen with his more recent efforts, there all crackers. I just loved his reference to HTTP//www.swinger-personals.co.UK it was hilarious! Keep up the good work Vince!I think it was the attitude shown by the director and the producers which allowed the film to flow in to the comical masterpiece it is. I think it is a film that could almost be said to be genre defining in the comedy area, it was top notch from start to finish and well worth a watch! "},{"Title":"Party with these guys!","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow. What a fun movie. I keep it on top of my stack and whenever I feel totally light-hearted, I pop it in.I had never even heard of this until a few years ago, when my brother turned me on to it. I am sure their marketing budget was as borderline as the one for production, so that might be the reason. No matter. Now that I know about this gem, I'm set.All the main characters were believable and totally understandable, in spite of the somewhat quirky world in which they lived. I could certainly identify with most of the main bits in this movie as I am sure a lot of guys do, and of course that is what makes you bust a gut.There's nothing wrong with letting the girls know that you're money, and you want to party.Or being either awkwardly stuck with the other one, or getting (or giving) the tour.Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn were fantastic. Favreau played the part of Mike, a sad sack who's really only being kept alive by his friends, and he did it to a tee. Of course, the truth is that these friends all needed support, and their brotherly love was pretty cool. They weren't comfortable in places where there was so much going on that you practically needed to bring your own oxygen. This place is dead, man, Charles (Alex Desert) uttered more than once. They needed calmer places like The Dresden or even The Derby, that they could navigate. That was another aspect that rang true to me.Trent (Vaughn) was basically the leader, although despite the slightly better handle he had on the situation, he was still as vulnerable as the rest.I was almost embarrassed that I was smiling so much when Mike and Lorraine (Heather Graham) got together. The scene where he first met Lorraine, while Trent and Sue (Patrick Van Horn) sat blubbering in the booth, was an absolute classic! God bless that kid!I thought that Lorraine's character was a perfect match for Mike and that made the ending all the more satisfying.You also can't beat Mike's phone messages to Nikki earlier in the film. If something similar hasn't happened to you at least once, you haven't lived.This flick is money. Run out and get it and lighten up your life. "},{"Title":"It's money, baby, money!","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Swingers was released in the era of independent films -- heavily influenced by Quentin Tarantino, there is a reason that one of the characters in this movie has a Mr. Blonde poster on his wall and discusses Pulp Fiction vs. GoodFellas in one scene. (One of my favorites in the film, actually.) Swingers is mainly about Mikey (Jon Favreau), a guy who's just come out of a six-year relationship and can't focus on anything else. His best friend Trent (Vince Vaughn) is only worried about trying to get into bed with any woman in sight.They head out to Vegas for a night and Trent makes some money and picks up a girl, but Mikey loses $300 and winds up thinking about his ex-girlfriend again.Essentially the film follows Mikey as he tries to learn to forget about his ex, and move on with his life, which is a very hard thing for him to do. This film is based around shame and embarrassment, and the most uncomfortable scene has to be the one in which Mikey desperately calls a woman he met at a bar and leaves about 12 messages on her answering machine. The punchline to the scene is hilarious and cruel.Swingers isn't quite as influential as it could have become. It inspired a cult following to go around saying things like, Money, baby! and it's definitely a guys' flick. (The male version of a chick flick, really.) It's not the huge breakthrough that Reservoir Dogs was but for its extremely low budget (I read $200,000) it certainly made a lot at the time of its release and solidified the careers of Favreau (who has gone on to direct and star in other productions), director Doug Liman (The Bourne Identity) and of course Vince Vaughn, whose career has gone somewhat down the drain since making this.Overall Swingers isn't flawless but it is a great insight into a jilted man's life and is more honest than about 90% of the films that are released through Hollywood nowadays. Its characters are very likable and three-dimensional and it entertained me throughout its short running time. "},{"Title":"gets funnier and funnier","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film gets funnier and funnier as it goes on. In the beginning it is entertaining but not really, really funny. But later on it gets VERY funny. There are some very memorable moments that will probably leave you laughing for ages. Although some people find the humour annoying I thought it was still funny. it is probably more of a boys than a girls movie movie but you never know. Overall I thought it was very entertaining and i highly recommend it.If you enjoy this movie you will probably enjoy MADE which has same two lead actors ( Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn) and is written by the same guy ( Jon Favreau) "},{"Title":"Great flick","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is a little piece of magic.Thrown together on a shoestring budget, Jon Favreau writes and stars as Pete. He and his merry band of swingers hit the town to hit on women, they go drinking, they spout catchphrases that have entered our language, the banter alone is priceless. The soundtrack and the whole vibe of the film picked up the zeitgeist and it did very well, it fitted snugly into the hip, swing/jazz music market that was on the way up at the time. A perfect photograph of that space in time.Film buffs will enjoy the in-jokes and references to other films, non-film buffs will enjoy the film because its so damn funny and likable.Watch this one my friends, the special edition DVD has more extras than your average Biblical epic. "},{"Title":"money","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Money.Favreau's writing is flawless in this movie. Each character has a specific way of delivering the lines so that they don't miss. Heather Graham's performance is lacking but that isn't a fault of her own. Her character is limited and she hasn't really impressed me to date, yet. This is Vaughn's best performance maybe challenged by Clay Pigeons or even Old School. Forget all that Frat Pack trash (Will Ferrell, Ben Stiller, and the Wilson brothers) this is a funny movie. Some of the filming aspects fall short but are forgivable for the dialogue. This is a movie that one can watch again and again and laugh at more and more of the lines. "},{"Title":"One of the best ever made","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent movie that is written with some of the funniest and human dialog. It is one of the coolest movies ever made as the guys who try to be money crux LA to Vegus in search of Beautiful Babies. Young actors who mimic the greats from the rat pack era are trying to survive in LA during the resurgence of the Swing era in the late 90's. A very clever movie that really captures true friendships and personal confusions. The main character , Mike (Jon Fraveau) and Trent (Vince Vaungh) are dead on one of the best movie duos ever. Mike comes to LA to become a star, a New Yorker who still pines for his ex girlfriend and constantly burdens his circle of friends with his concerns while they try and couch him back into the dating scene. An awesome ending.A MUST SEE!! "}{"Title":"great and most original screenplay in a long time!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers is a great film and so very realistic, it has normal guys looking for love, lust and all that vegas and la have to offer, its very well acted by vince vaughn and also the other actors as well, the screenplay was excellent and the great thing about this movie for the most part is it can relate to anyone in there 20's and 30's male or female, it is a very intelligent film but not overly done mentally in that way, i actually read one schmuck's review on this film and he lives in brazil yet he said that the movie was not accurate on how the city of los angeles is!...haha gee i wonder if this guy from brazil has a satellite in his room ?? how does he know , for the guy who wrote that from brazil, comment on the movie blame it on rio and leave the rest of your comments at home, i happen to live in los angeles and the whole movie was authentic , anyways this film is very well acted with a great screenplay and as i said before it relates to anyone, i never like to give the story away some do on here, basically its about fun friendships and finding yourself ..trust me its a good film, 8 out of 10 (  "},{"Title":"Great party film that works well at home by yourself.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This great, somewhat independent-feeling film brings home all the bang for your buck by casting great leads Jon Favreau & Vince Vaughn, whose friendship and miscaps in the LA dating scene of '96 take you back to the swing-dancing trend of the time and the ongoing difficulty of finding yourself in a new place.I loved the film because there's a feeling of genuine awkwardness from Favreau's character which lives inside a lot of the club going scenes. It's pretty much a cult movie that could reach a wider audience because of its usage of great actors, both in the lead characters and the extra characters, and it's great touch of humor and reality.I gave it a 9. It's not so boring because the grip you get on their plight throughout Las Vegas and LA, which deals with getting acting deals, girls' numbers, and keeping your friends in check with reality, is entertaining, well-thought-through, and comedic. Great party film, as well.  "},{"Title":"It's my favorite","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved Swingers.  It's probably my favorite movie; not necessarily the best movie I've ever seen, but definitely my favorite.  I think every guy has been in Mike's (Jon Favreau) shoes at some point in his life, and the acting in this movie is better than most other movies I've seen.  Jon Favreau plays Mike better than anyone probably could, Vince Vaughn is superb as the sarcastic yet loyal and supportive best friend Trent, and Ron Livingston's performance as Rob, Mike's best friend from New York, probably could have (and should have) gotten him an Oscar nomination had this movie been more mainstream. It's not a blockbuster, it's not shot with special effects or glitz and glamour and Johnny Depp, but it's still the best movie I've seen.  A feel good movie that that I learn more about every time I watch it. 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"love it to death","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think Swingers is a very intelligent and funny movie. It seems slow if you are expecting some kind of noisy party flick, but when you pay attention it's really hilarious. Great writing and acting by Jon Favreau, supporting actors (namely Vince Vaughn) also seem to fit their roles perfectly and are funny. Recommended for comedy fans, especially guys... "},{"Title":"A very realistic and funny movie","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not many films can be said to have changed people's lives, but this film changed mine! It echoed emotions I was feeling at the time and it gave me hope. Call me sad, but I really did feel the way Mikey was feeling and this film helped to cheer me up.I'd recommend this film to anyone who wants to see intelligent humour and help for their problems... it will make you laugh and cry.10/10 "},{"Title":"All around good comedy...","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Even though this is really a guy movie, by that I mean really from a guy's perspective, everyone can relate to the humor in a guy on the dating scene. I love the dialogue, Favreau and Vaughn are truly money.  One of the coolest movies of the 90s. "},{"Title":"too cool for school","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  one of the best films of 96 is a loose, often improvised movie about several men going to several parties. that's it. simple, but mesmerizing.It mainly follows the story of mike, a recently dumped twenty-something looking to get back into the singles game. with help from his friends. including cool as ice trent.  the comedy is not easy, not slapstick, just great gags within a highly realistic script. it's almost like every night out you have ever been on. only this is about those nights out, the intimate details of trying to talk to women, gaining the confidence and what to do when you get the girl.the characters are immediatly identifiable, as they are just like our own friends. just human. and the actors dont even seem like they are acting.it all goes to make a brilliant slice of dumpee advice. it's funny, moving, and technically brilliant enough to make it a classic.   "},{"Title":"The most likeable characters since Butch and Sundance","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers is my favorite movie of the 90's.  Some people see themselves in Westerns, or in a police shootout ending of an action film, or getting the girl at the end of a romantic comedy.  I see myself playing video hockey with Mike, Trent, and Sue.  These are the most real, normal characters that have appeared on film in a long, long time.  I would venture to say that every man can relate to these characters in one way or another.  Maybe we don't all play video hockey, or swing dance, or live in L.A., but the bond between a group of guys just being guys is universal.  The reason that this is illustrated so well in Swingers, as everybody knows by now, is that these are real life friends acting out their own personal experiences. If you're a fan of this movie, you owe it to yourself to purchase the special edition DVD and watch the commentary with Vince and Favs.  Hearing them tell the real life stories behind the best scenes in the movie is definitely worth it, even if you're like me and already had the original Swingers DVD with no special features.  Is there a better description of a movie geek than a person who wants to go to LA to hang out with the stars of their favorite movies?   "},{"Title":"Sweet natured look at life","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  indie films, by their very nature seem to bring out the worst aspects of life. Let's face it, many of these festivals of disfunction and rarely accomplished sexual mores are as unrealistic and pandering as Pearl Harbor is. In other words, I don't connect and I dont have the requisite fascination to enjoy or find these films compelling.Then there are films on a human scale - The Apostle, Sling Blade and yes, Swingers. If you've ever been a lonely guy in a new city, you'll appreciate what the film is about. Instead of the character having a threesome with a nun and a dominatrix, he worries, he messes up, he fumbles. He's human. His friends are annoying. He reaches peaks and valleys. Swingers looks at isolation and alienation as we actually know it - not as its displayed in Crash or Exotica, but how I suspect 95% of us actually live our lives. Oh, and it's also very funny. "},{"Title":"Well done movie, and great hair too!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented Swingers because I was intrigued by the mention of LA nightlife. I am pleased to report that this is a very satisfying film that makes the Hollywood club scene (at least in the mid-90's) look hysterical.I love Jon Favreau's script! I cringe each time he boofs an encounter with a girl, whether in a bar or on the phone. And the answering machine as counselor, well, that's terrific.I truly enjoyed watching all these young enthusiastic actors working together.  But the reason to watch is unequivocally Vince Vaughn.  Mr. Vaughn has delivered one of the finest comic performances in modern filmdom. The cool jivin', the dressing, just oozing the style, and incorporating it into his lifestyle, yet with such a subtle emptiness, to me was absolutely side-splitting. Notable are his interactions with waitresses. But say what you will of Trent Walker's (Vaughn) intentions, he's got FANTASTIC hair!!!Swingers 9 out of 10  "}{"Title":"One of the funniest films of the 90s","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The very best part of this movie is in the last scene, where a suddenly at peace Favreau is just about to make a point, just about to explain why he's changed, just when he's about to give this movie a deeper meaning, Vaughn does his I'm getting vibed in a wierd way here bit. I love how this movie is only about real life, and how perfectly Favreau's script captured the ups and downs of romance, the pointless conversation of male friendship, and the simple bonding experience of playing NHL '95. The dialogue feels so real that you feel like Sue, Mike, Rob and Trent are the guys you hang out with. Favreau is good, but Vince Vaughn really shines here. This is his breakout role, and it is completely brilliant. This movie is a lot better than what some of the jerks who've dismissed it on this page think it is.   Ten out of ten. Anyone who says otherwise gets a kick in the face. "},{"Title":"Gets Better Everytime","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Ultimate Guy Movie.  Absolutely Hilarious from start to finish.  The dialogue and jokes just get better with time.  Anyone whos played video games against a friend will immediately find similarities with the hilarious NHL video game scene.  Trent is one of the most likable characters in movie history and youll find yourself copying his smooth talk anytime your with a lady.  The perfect movie too make ya feel good.  "},{"Title":"Great!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was at work someday, i was sitting in the pro shop, when a co-worker was talking with one of his buddies about the movie swingers, granted i have never heard of the movie, after hearing him talk it up, i had to go rent it. So i did, boy i wasn't disapointed, i laughed so much i almost fell off the couch and landed on the floor, Vaughn was incredible (he was money!!!) Favereau was also great, i loved the old answering machine bit, this was a great oh wait, Money!!! Movie. All i have to say is go and get this film. Oh and thanks George for recommending it.  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This comedy made me laugh out loud from beginning to end. Trent (Vince Vaughn) is the funniest character i've ever seen in a movie. This is a great comedy because the situations the characters get in are realistic. This movie isn't about shock value  and gross out tricks. Its a movie regular guys can relate to. They made me laugh about how they basically have a guide to approaching females.. and how they have rules on how long to wait to call a girl when you get her number. There is  a classic scene where Trent talks trash on his friend when he scores on him in a hockey video game. I've seen Made than John Favreau wrote also. I thought that was great and they both worked good in that but after seeing Swingers, I went to my computer i gave it a 9 out of 10. I rank this among my favorite comedies . Rushmore, The Jerk, Stripes, Ace Ventura, What about  Bob and now Swingers is among my list. Please rent, buy or borrow off a friend and never give it back. Great film about friendship, moving on to better things and the club scene. "},{"Title":"That was so MONEY!","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers is such a great movie.  It's endlessly fun, slick, and hilarious. With inspired spoofs of shots from GoodFellas and Reservoir Dogs, along with the use of money as an adjective, Swingers is pure entertainment. Simply put, this movie is MONEY, BABY! "},{"Title":"Great movie, especially when going through a breakup","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie about 3 years ago when I was going through a breakup and it was total therapy.  Everyone can relate to at least certain aspects of John Favreau's character, even women.  Vince Vaughn is awesome in this movie along with the rest of the cast.  The setting is perfect, the ending is perfect, it's just an all-around great film.  If you haven't seen it yet, what the hell are you waiting for??? 10/10 "},{"Title":"Inconsequential","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jon Favreau stars as a jilted New Yorker who attempts to start a new romantic life in Los Angeles while pursuing his career as a comedian. He's mentored by best friend (Vince Vaughn) in the art of picking up women but proves to be tentative and clumsy. Favreau, who wrote the script, has a bad case of the Woody Allens and both his whiny acting and his morose writing owe Allen a great debt of gratitude. Though the film is intermittently funny (a bit concerning an answering machine works very well), director Doug Liman lets too many scenes go on far too long and both he and Favreau have trouble creating interesting supporting characters that could at least offset Favreau's inconsequence--every male seems to have one disconcerting character trait that renders him unpleasant. The total effect seems to be contrary to the filmmakers' intent instead of getting under your skin, after a little while it starts to get on your nerves. "},{"Title":"The best 'buddy movie' I have ever seen!","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Forget Butch and Sundance, the best depiction of male relationships/interaction/bonding is here to view in Swingers. Mike (Jon Favreau) is depressed. He and his now ex-girlfriend have split, and he's feeling the pain and torture of being alone and confused. Poor guy. He is hoping that one day she'll phone him out of the blue, but she never does. We've all been there, so we know how it feels!!I first saw this film when I was in a state over my split with my now ex. I thought it was the end of the world, then I saw this and rented it thinking it would cheer me up, and by God it did!!! Who needs women when you have a great bunch of mates??!!This film should be watched by both males and females! But primarily males!! It's quite simply amazing and it's all to do with the astute and witty script written by Favreau himself!!Vegas baby - VEGAAAAAAAAAAAAAASSS!!!!!!!!His best mate Trent will seem familiar to everyone, most probably cos you know a Trent type character! He's the one that will always try and get you drunk, happy, laid - anything so that you'll get on with your life.It's a very funny and witty film and the acting is superb especially Favreau and Vaughn (Why did he play Bates in Psycho??!!why oh why!!). Good direction and loads of intertextual jokes make this a great film be it if your sober or drunk, this is definitely one to own!Heather Graham is beautiful too and the way Favreau's Mike just literally dances her off her feet will make us go out and take dancing lessons.Very contagious. I showed this to my mates, and they have done the same to theirs and no doubt they will do the same again. This film will succeed for years to come due to word of mouth!You're so Money!9/10 "},{"Title":"You're so money and you don't even know it.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie rocks.  I thought the plot was thin, but with a movie like Swingers, don't come for the plot - come for the atmosphere.  The characters in Swingers throw around slang and profanity like they're talking another language - only a film like this could use the word money as an adjective. It brings a very cool vibe to the movie and that's why the movie works. Well, that and the fact that Sega Genesis NHL Hockey is heavily featured. I'm gonna make Gretzky bleed!Both Favreau and Vaughn stand out with their performances as the sad-sack Mike and the ultra-hip Trent, respectively.  The surrounding cast also works well, but if you're onto this one for Heather Graham, she's only in it for a few minutes.Vaughn's performance alone makes this movie a keeper.  After the movie was over I went back and watched a lot of his scenes over again - it's that good.  Daddy rates this one an 8, baby.  It's so money. "},{"Title":"too cool for school","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a good film, and what a surprise. After watching this video gather dust on my flatmate's video shelf, I finally decided to dust the old boy down and give it a try. And boy am I glad I did. It's a winner. But you don't need me to tell you. When I sample the reviews of certain stubborn-hearted, 'proper' critics on this site, I wonder if these men have had their heart broken, because if they haven't, they're not gonna get how accurate Jon Favreau's impersonation of someone who has, is.  Team this performance with Vince Vaughan's portrayal of a friend that every guy should have, and you've got a winner baby. Come on guys, admit it.And my final point, I understand this film was made for $250,000. What do you critics want for a quarter of a mill? As value for money goes, this is solid gold cinemaFive years later, it's still money "}{"Title":"It's so money","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a welcome experience from all the male bashing films that seem to keep coming out. This movie really opened my eyes about men and how they relate to one another and how they relate to women. As a younger woman I spent a lot of time, especially in the company of women, bashing men. The usual bravado of men are pigs and only want one thing.After watching this movie I felt ashamed of myself. This movie and my experiences online chatting with men have really opened my eyes to the fact that men have feelings that are just as valid as any woman's. I think because men don't express themselves women tend to think of them as unfeeling. Men get hurt in relationships to. On top of this little realization was also the fact that this movie is hilarious. I like the homage to the different directors. I loved the dialogue. This is a fun movie to watch. It's also got a lot of great one liners.  "},{"Title":"Great Flick, Great Film!","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What Sex and the City has done for women as far as expressing the underlying feminine reality of modern day city gals, Swingers does the same for men and maybe even exceeds these myths. It provides a certain truth about what it is that guys do when being guys and what it is that guys think about for that matter when not drooling over a half-naked female in a halter top and leather pants ensemble at some trendy hotspot on Melrose.You want to know how to act in front of women? Need some pointers? Do you ladies want to know why men are the way they are then forget about all of those blase sitcoms and redundant man's magazines and see this movie for any and all necessary information and ask no more questions. All hestitation about the opposite sex will be clarified by the end of this film and one will be guaranteed to be smoother, more suave and simply appear to be just that much more cooler than before you saw the film in the first place (guys at least).As far as acting is concerned, all of the characters in the movie are late 20 something guys looking to become future actors in Hollywood (ironic, eh?), and they are outstanding. Trent, Vince Vaughn, is the smooth talker, never one to fail with the tail and the one-liners. Watching and observing closely behind him is Mikey, Jon Favreau, who helped to write and produce this movie and one who continues to wreak himself over a past loved one during the course of the swingers' journey. Also worthy of mention in this high-powered entourage of groupies you'll find a sincere Ron Livingston, a slick, hard-nosed Pat Van Horn and a genuine Heather Graham as well as a host of talented and believable others. Well written, well acted, well done and clever as can be. I am at a loss for words of how money this movie is. Stop reading my review and just simply go see it. Vegas baby! Vegas! "},{"Title":"Swingers, baby, Swingers!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Swingers is in one word Money!! Extremely entertaining, very witty and super-cool. This film is an excellent example of a independent film that wasn't huge at the box office, it wasn't very well noticed but it was surprisingly good. It is always fun to discover a film that you know nothing about, you make no expectations and it turns out to be so amusing. Swingers is indeed, that kind of a flick! The script is great, and very hip. The movie is packed with funny and cool dialogues. l laughed through the whole film, sometimes just because I loved the conversations so much. The main characters are very well written. The acting is good.Specially  Vince Voyer, he was fantastic. His character, Trent. A smooth talking player, who knows all the tricks of the hustling trade, was the peek of the movie. I enjoyed that guy so much, I could sit and listen to him talk for hours. The film is written by Jon Favreu, who also played the main character, Mike. He was very believable as a guy trying to get over his long-time girlfriend. Mike and Trent made an excellent duo.The look of the film was kind of amature, which made it pretty cool. I am really looking forward to seeing more of Jon´s work in the future. He seems to be very promising as a writer. The score 8/10.   "},{"Title":"This is one of the funniest movies that I have ever seen.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Holy sh$t!!! This movie is absolutely hilarious.  Jon Favreau has written an absolute masterpiece of a script that will have you roaring with laughter.The chemistry between Favreau and Vince Vaughn is perfect.  The dialogue between them is what really makes this movie a hit - Besides being side-splittingly funny, the characterization and situations that this group of friends wind up in is SO realistic!  I swear, I feel like I know all of the people in the flick - We're talking about picking up chicks and fighting over Sega ice hockey here!!!!A+++++ all the way around.If you have not yet seen this movie then you should go rent it or buy it RIGHT NOW!!!! You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"great entertainment","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw half this movie on tv at my friends house and i decided i had to rent it for myself.  I found the movie to be very entertaining, funny and it had a great story played by great actors.  That one scene where the camera doesnt cut is amazing.  I loved the ending too. I'd suggest this to anyone who likes to laugh and have a good time. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Hi Michelle? It's me, Mike...","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Proof positive that a film does not need a huge budget or a name cast to be great.  I first saw this film about 4 years ago and it has remained, since that day, one of my favorite films.  Jon Favreau's script is nearly flawless and infinitely quoteable (You're money, baby!).  This is a film that knows it's main audience will be single guys, and therefore rewards us with very realistic characters that are easily related to.  Who among us has not experienced  similar situations to Mike's answering machine relationship breakdown?  I can't even watch that scene because it's too tragic and heart-wrenching.  This is a film that I'd describe as a realistic comedy.  So many comedies today feature totally unrealistic situations that are totally contrived that they lose the feeling that the characters are human.  Swingers is a comedy, don't get me wrong, but kick-to-the-gut scenes like Mike's breakdown give the human touch that actually makes laughing in the right spots easier.  By the end of the film, you feel satisfied because you haven't just watched some vapid, shallow comedy, but rather you've seen a film where you genuinely care about the characters, because you've seen them at their best and worst.  "},{"Title":"Too cool for words...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Too cool for words doesn't do the film justice, although its the most appropriate one liner out there!  The film has to be seen to be realized as the true gem it is, as the descriptions don't allow you to really feel what it's all about.  After numerous viewings -including the original viewing in the theatre - it never looses its' shine!  My favorite comedy out there by far.  Probably enjoyed most by single guys (or guys who remember when...) as the inside jokes are killer, but a good date flick as well.  See this one! "},{"Title":"Don't we all want to be Trent?","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie we turned it off after the scene where Mikey's answering machine started talking back to him.  At the pleading of my friend (a girl none the less) we took a second look.  As the movie went on, our laughs got bigger and bigger.  The great part of this film is how well it captures each character and makes you feel almost as if you are part of the group.  Sitting around playing sega, early mornings in the all night diner, 5 separate cars to the party, the little subtleties of a group of bachelors to which we can all relate.  Vince Vaughn does an excellent job as the smooth talking player of the bunch, but the character I most relate to would have to be Mikey.  Jon Favreau does a great job playing, as far as I can tell, himself.  You can see that his heart is just a little too big to be a player like Trent, but his frustration in not being able to let go of his ex-girlfriend and sweet talk the ladies is painfully evident, especially in one scene where about everyone in the room started yelling at the TV, one of my friends hiding his eyes.  As the film resolves itself, we all cheered for Mikey because you know what?  We've all been there.  This is a movie you could watch every night for a week, perfect for the summer.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest contemporary films - why such a shoddy DVD?","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers provides a truly brilliant commentary for the modern dating scene, with a soundtrack free from the fear of being out-of-date a couple of months after it came out (as seems the case with most movie soundtracks these days). Why oh why did Pathe release it with a trailer? Not just that, but they've released it in Dolby Surround! No 5.1 remix, DTS is wishful thinking, and this is a film which practically stars the soundtrack! Back to the film, though, it truly is a classic - hopefully a special edition will turn up with a better presentation at some point. "},{"Title":"How Mikey Got His Groove Back","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An absolute inspiration for all of us who aren't true players.  Every guy needs a friend like Trent who makes him know that he's money(even if he's not).  I was coming off a bad breakup and after seeing this flick, I got off my ass and met some really cool women.  I love this film!! "}{"Title":"Yeeaaah Nightlife","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen it a few months ago but I still can't forget it. How simple but really cogent view of nightlife and people who wants to be something more...something more than only Goofy or some other kind of vulgar jesters in TV industry. Life is real and this film is the same. It doesn't lack anything which belongs it...it's funny, it's a little bit tragical and mainly, it's perfect...and I love it!    "},{"Title":"close to home","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie has got to be one of my favorites. the swingers in the movie remind me of me and my friends each and every weekend.  one of my best friends, and fellow swinger, recommended that i see this movie when my long time girl left me. i was completely relating to Mike in the movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best written movies ever","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First, let me give you a scene from Doug Limen's Swingers. Mikey, Trent, Sue, Rob and Charles are single actors trying to make it big in Los Angeles, but tonight they're playing poker and talking about their favorite movies before a night on the town. They talk about unforgettable moments like the kitchen follow-though shot in Goodfellas and the slow motion opener to Resevoir Dogs. One person comments you gotta be nuts to shoot in a casino.The brilliance of the writing lies in the subtext. All three of these scenes play out elsewhere in the film. At the beginning, Trent and Mikey are at a casino in Vegas; at the end, Trent, Mikey and Sue go to a club, entering the club through the kitchen; and immediately following the aforementioned poker game, the whole gang walk to their cars in slow-motion.With a script so self-aware of its surroundings, how can we go wrong?The story is focused on Mikey, as he tries to deal with the single life after a six year relationship ended aburptly after he moved to LA. He's been single for awhile, but he's still heartbroken and can't even look at another girl without thinking about his ex. Enter Trent, his friend and guide to the LA dating scene. Trent uses slang that is so addictive, I don't know anyone whose seen the movie and hasn't adopted phrases like beautiful babies and you're so money. It's Trent's personal mission to break Mikey away from his tedium.Another moment of great writing Mikey is apprehensive of approaching a girl who was obviously flirting with him. Trent takes him aside and gives him this pep talk I don't want you to be like the guy in the PG-13 movie, you know, the one everybody's REALLY hoping makes it happen . . . I want you to be like the guy in the rated R movie, the guy you're not to sure about, you're not sure where he's coming from, you don't what to think . . .  What an amazing allegory to Mikey, who is from a PG-13 movie, and Trent himself, the epitome of the rated-R bad ass.If you watch closely enough, if you look between all the parties and video games and bad golf, Mikey slowly progresses. It's an uphill battle, and Jon Favreau plays him with complete realism. As Mikey looks at the pictures of his ex after a long night, tears swell in his eyes. It's not really crying, its trying so hard not to cry that it happens anyway, a method Trent mentions while telling of his auditions.There is nothing not to like about this movie. In the final stroke of genius, as Mikey attempts to tell Trent his sublime moment of clarity, Trent interrupts him to flirt with a girl at the far end of the restaurant. Trent bellyflops, and tries to return to the conversation. Mikey simply gazes out of the window, with a very clever smile. End of film.10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Low budget gem - and best film of '97","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Group of 20-something guys cruise the L.A. lounge scene looking for women - and failing hilariously. We all have mates who behave like the guys in the film, and this recognition makes the movie all the more appealling. Made on a shoestring budget it puts Hollywood to shame. Chuck in a terrible Vegas road trip, an endlessly quotable script from Jon Favreau which hits on many of our male insecurities(e.g. how long before you call a woman up after meeting her), the funniest answering machine sketch ever and you have, in the words of Time Out's Tom Charity - 90 minutes spent learning how not to pick up girls. Genius! "},{"Title":"great debut film by Doug Liman","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers is a warm amusing comedy about some hardworking actors looking for love in LA. It teaches about the dos and do nots of dating using some colorful characters that are very intriguing for the audience. It is a well written and well acted comedy. Jon Favreau who plays neurotic but lovable Mikey is slowly realizing he is a bachelor having left his girlfriend in Brooklyn. The dialogue is hip, up to date, and helps define the characters so well. A great debut film by a new filmmaker in Doug Liman who will be making many more films for years to come. "},{"Title":"The greatest breakup movie ever (at least for guys)","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We get so tied up in the idea that good movies have to be Meaningful with a capital M that movies like Swingers get overlooked at the Oscars. Which is a shame, because Jon Favreau (as screenwriter) has an incredible eye for detail, and this movie is full of brilliant (though simple) insights into human nature. If you've ever broken up after a long relationship, if you've ever said no girl/boy here is as attractive as my ex, if you've ever been whupped at Sega hockey, you need to see this movie. Under its cynical, hip exterior, Swingers is a movie about friendship and the sweetness of everyday life. There are no gut-wrenching death scenes, no heavy-handed messages, and you won't leave it feeling like you've learned something you didn't already know. But you will leave it wanting to call old friends and go out, and you'll leave it feeling refreshed and optimistic; which is ultimately both a more difficult and a more worthy accomplishment for a movie. "},{"Title":"Favreau, Vaughn, and Liman are great","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Vince Vaughn (T) and Jon Favreau (Mikey) are reunited in one of the all-time rental classics.  (They met on the cast of Rudy, another fine film.)  This film is a stylized view of the Los Angeles single scene.  Favreau gives a tremendous performance that captures the not-quite-at-ease feeling of being a New Yorker in Southern California.  Vaughn nails the T character, which is really a caricature of a cool guy.  It works because he has enough confidence to not be an *obvious* caricature.Liman captures the feel of So Cal well and the soundtrack is great.One of my favorite films. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Vince Vaughn is such a great actor and is so funny in this movie. The 50's style of talk is also great. Jon Favreau is another huge upcoming star keep your eye out for both him and Vince Vaughn. If you like the 50's this movie is a must see!  "},{"Title":"Pancakes and the Age of Enlightenment","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This comedy, written by its star Jon Favreau, is one of the genuine surprises lurking on the shelf of your local video store.  I first saw this film about 2 months after its video release and it now has a home in my DVD collection, making its way into the player every couple of months.  The film starts as typically as any film of my Generation X, in a coffee shop with two guys talking, takes a road trip to Vegas, and swings back through the LA club scene. It is a comedy that knows how to go for the subtle laugh (Talking about the movie Casino ...You'd have to be nuts to film in a casino. The  movie sets itself in a casino in Vegas for part of the first act).The real charm of the movie is its dead on writing.  The guys actually do GUY things, they play golf (not very well), they hang out playing video hockey, they go out drinking and looking for women.  It may all seem a little cliche, but its what single guys do.If you've only seen Vince Vaughn in Clay Pigeons or god forbid the Van Sant Psycho remake, then you truly haven't seen the actor at his best. His comic timing and delivery shine through in this film. (If you'd like to see him at his dramatic best, then Return to Paradise is a great choice)From the hip LA lingo to the great locations and soundtrack, Swingers is a just a fun film.  On a recent trip to LA, I actually went scouting out a few of the film's locales -  The Hollywood Hills Diner on Franklin, the Dresden Restaurant on N. Vermont where I got to see Marty and Elayne play a set.One warning, you may start referring to your friends as Baby or calling them Money after seeing this film.  (9 out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Excellent hang out and crack open a cold on movie...","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers captures what life's like for many 20-somethings, especially in la...thoughtfully written, well executed, a movie that brings you on the ride and make you feel for these guys...a definite must see! "}{"Title":"very, very hip","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers careens onto the screen in a haze of ultra hipness. Smart, witty dialogue blends with the impeccably cast characters to give the viewer a satisfying experience.      The film is not roll round the floor hilarious, rather, subtle and almost seinfeld-esque in its deliberations which do prove to be very amusing. The soundtrack also helps and the locations are fabulous.     Very satisfying.   "},{"Title":"It's Money Man!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Doug Limans Swingers, written by leading man Jon Favreau has to be the hippest and coolest movie for a decade.  You must be soooo shallow I hear you cry and yes, like the majority of the characters, I'm as shallow as a puddle. If, like me, cool clothes, hip phrases and classic one-liners impress then this is the movie for you.  Any single man caught in the never ending tour of clubs and parties in an effort to impress and meet women will easily identify with the characters desperate need to be accepted by their peers.  Some of the dialogue is so sharp it slices like a razor (similar to the clothes and style) and the answer machine scene will have you cringing with embarrassment.  Is it style over substance?  Possibly but in any case it's a great movie enhanced with repeated viewings.  "},{"Title":"Sharp Dialogue and really good acting","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers is such a good film, Vaughn and Favreau fit the roles perfectly, you could almost believe that the characters are not actors at all, but real.  The story is just a few months in the lives of some washed up actors and what they get up to, but it's easy to relate to and you soon become absorbed in the characters.  The comedy is not in your face - its real, and cleverly done. It's like a really well written movie-style soap crammed into an hour and twenty minutes, and everyone who has seen it will probably be able to relate to something in it, and you don't have to be from L.A.! "},{"Title":"A hilarious classic.","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Many people I've spoken to don't like this movie; they dismiss it as a movie about a bunch of white guys who don't do anything.  However, I quickly became a huge fan of this movie when it came out on video, and most people I've shown it to have loved it. The lines and vocabulary have been used within my group of friends for years now, and quoting the movie never gets stale (the key is moderation!).   Unfortunately, the DVD is very bare, so hopefully the creators will release some sort of collector's edition soon with more features. "},{"Title":"This movie IS the guy experience","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is a rare occurrence when you truly identify with a movie.  But while watching Swingers, I did scene after scene.  I have felt as pathetic as Mikey after he leaves the messages on Nikki's answering machine, but I also know how great it feels when you hook up with a girl like Loraine.  I have a friend who IS Trent.  My friends and I have probably had the same arguments over the steadicam shot in GoodFellas vs. the slow motion opening credit sequence from Reservoir Dogs. From my experience, the scene with the guys playing video games is one of the truest ever put on film.Where this movie excels in in its subtleties.  I love the nicknames they give each other and how they get 8s on the 3 par golf course.  No matter how many times I've seen it, it is impossible for me not to laugh at the bunny/fangs sequence.To those who complain about the lack of a traditional plot, I say so what? The informality and lack of focus pretty much mirrors these guys' lives. And it makes for one of the most exhilaratingly entertaining movies in recent memory.I could go on forever raving about this movie, but I just have to say that if you haven't seen this film, go rent it tonight.We all have stories  and Doug Liman and Jon Farveau have teamed up to tell us a few great ones.  "},{"Title":"You are so money...","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is such a fabulous movie.  The first Vince Vaughn movie I ever saw was Clay Pigeons and I claimed that I would never see another movie that he starred in.  Then, a bunch of my male friends talked me into seeing this one, and now of course, I absolutely love Vince Vaughn.This movie has to strike a certain chord to appeal to you, but if it does, then you will always enjoy it.  I've had people  tell me that it's a dumb movie, that it's stupid, and I refuse to believe it.  Because of the superbly-crafted script, the immensely talented acting, and the general attitude of the entire show, Swingers is untouchable.  It is so absurd but so off-the-cuff that it oozes charm and humor.I think the type of people to whom it appeals are the people, both male and female, who have observed groups of twenty-something guys for extended periods of time.  I know that this was one of the main reasons I loved it. I've seen guys go through exactly what Mike, Trent, et al., go through in this movie.  They have their ingenious schemes to attract women,  their allotted number of days before calling someone, their inside catch-phrases, the walk, the talk... it's all there.  And you can tell that even though Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau themselves may even believe in some of the things their characters do, they also see the humor in Mike and Trent and the relationships that they and the other men have.My roommate claimed that this was one of the dumbest movies she ever saw. My boyfriend shouted at the TV when Mike checked the clock at 232 a.m., yelling Don't call her!! before Mike even reached into his pocket to get Nikki's phone number.  He was rolling on the floor laughing the entire time and I will definitely side with his view of this movie.  I would recommend it to anyone.You are so money and you don't even know it... "},{"Title":"Best movie I have ever seen!","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The lingo, the storyline, the wardrobe; everything about this movie was money! Jon Favreau did an amazing job on this script. Each time I watch it, I find something new that I missed the last time that makes me laugh. Anyone in this age range (20's) could identify in some way with this movie. I just wish some of my friends were as smooth as the T-man. We'd have all the beautiful babies that want to party! "},{"Title":"About nothing?","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sure it's not about anything. There's no denying that. It's an exaggeration of the male experience. The whole thing is really about the character development more than the plot. Full of catch phrases and funny lines this movie is like the bomb. It's so money, and you don't even know it! There is a lot of objectionable language, but it is refreshing not to see any gratuitous nudity. The only heads that bleed are those of electronic video game characters (99 Gretzky), and though there are threats of violence, none occurs. Not a family film by any means, but not the typical teenage boy movie either. See it! "},{"Title":"This movie is MONEY !! $$","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a must see for any guy that's ever had a relationship with a girl. Swingers is definitely a guy flick, but I think some girls could enjoy it. I've seen the movie at least 15 times, and each time I pick up something new. The script was written brilliantly, and deserves much praise. There needs to be more movies like Swingers out there- there's just not enough. There's so many great things to say about Swingers, but I wouldn't want to spoil for you. So go watch it, Money!! "},{"Title":"It's money, baby!","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What an absolutely brilliant film!  Excellent characterisation, great introduction of believable dialect, wonderfully funny and absolutely worth watching!It's a show not based on a story as such, but on life.  Basically it follows a guy getting over a girl, in LA -- on it's own, not much.  But throw in an outstanding cast and a side splitting script (good old subtle dry comedy) and you've got yourself a movie you'll want to watch again and again.10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Little-known and under-rated comedy of life. Watch it and be surprised.","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the type of film that is funny the first time you watch it but just gets better with each additional viewing.  The catchphrases are money, baby and the use of hip-hop quips are very Ali-G (only the UK audience will get this).  The scene with the answerphone IS funny but is over-rated compared to the bunny and fangs set-piece which just had me in stitches. This is a much un-unheard of and under-rated comedy of life.  Watch it, you'll be surprised. "},{"Title":"A winner","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No money, no big-names, no complaints.  This film is absolute class.  From the photograph montage with Dean Martin at the beginning to Trent's discomfort at the end, this film is a winner.  The Jaws, Reservoir Dogs and Goodfellas homages deserve respect.  Mike's you've got to be nuts to shoot in a casino is hilarious.  The scene where they enter the party in the Hills is spot-on. There is also one of the most surreal, yet funny, scenes in recent memory.BUTThe film isn't all about humour.  You want these guys to be happy because it will make you happy because if you're a guy, you are these guys, and if you're not a guy, you know these guys. This film cannot be recommended enough.  Watch it, like it, understand it. The first is your choice.  The second two are inevitable. "},{"Title":"well, we all have stories...","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  were can i possibly begin?  for the few of you out there that haven't yet seen this movie, you are definitely missing out.  swingers is not only one of my absolute favorite movies, but it seems as if my friends and i could have written the exact same script!!  this movie is treasured by many 20-somethings because it speaks volumes about the type of lifestyle many people in our generation live.  the scenes where they attempt to seduce beautiful babies is so lifelike that you might imagine this is more of a documentary than a fictional film.  (ie...not calling a girl for 2 days, attempting to build up a friends confidence to talk to a beautiful baby, etc...) even though my parents can not relate to this movie as well as i did, they still found it humorous enough to laugh out loud at the type of lifestyle the lovable characters (ie...my friends and i) lead.  it is as if all of us have a little mikey in us sometimes, especially when our confidence is down!  but eventually with the help of our friends, we all come out of our shell and return back to form.  i am sure that many of us even have friends as money as trent that can do no wrong with the ladies. i cannot possibly explain how much i enjoy this movie other than to say that my apartment and i watch this movie at least once a week, especially on nights when we ourselves go out and party with the ladies.  we constantly quote the movie as if we just watched it for the first time the night before and still laugh like we did the first time we all saw it three years ago. this movie is one of my classics.  a timeless movie that ranks up there with the breakfast club (or any other john hughes film), beautiful girls, go, and american pie.  the type of movie that becomes an underground classic simply because it tells it like it is.  10+ out of 10. "},{"Title":"Tarentino-esque picture","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great film. Seems very much like it was an homage to such great films as Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction. It's a fun, exciting ride in the life of a modern day swinger. Excellent acting, and story (or the lack of a story) made this a modern day classic. Vince Vaughan is awesome! "},{"Title":"You are so money, and you don't even know it.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the weakest trends we've had in the nineties is the horrid return of swing music. I'm sorry, but I have no wish to jump into a zoot suit and jive and wail to rockabilly played by jerks whose minds are lost in an era when they never even existed. Nostalgia is one thing, but can we move on TOWARDS the future as the millennium closes?I think Doug Liman's kicky, clever nightlife movie SWINGERS is somewhat guilty of pulling underground swing music into the mainstream (it launched Big Bad Voodoo Daddy into a brief success on MTV and music catalogs), but who cares. Jon Favreau gives us a story that's funny and so true of men, no matter what their taste of hip is.Jon Favreau plays Mike, a comedian from New York who now resides in sunny L.A. and slumps into the depressing stages of being dumped by his long-time girlfriend. It's funny watching other people's reactions to him. Either you think he's a chump or a really sweet guy. He is, honestly, the latter, because you are either the kind of guy who wants true love in a relationship or a long list of digits from girls you met at a club just so you never have a boring night without sex.The foil is Mike's best bud Trent (showstealer Vince Vaughn) who desperately tries to get Mikey back in the game. Trent drags Mike to Las Vegas in one of the movie's best scenes.The main point of this film is to show the nightlife rituals of young single men. To show their real feelings under a slew of masks they wear just to attract some pretty babies. Oh, and Jon Favreau's script is chopfull of hip lingo from Swingers sub-culture money, babies, etc. Most of it sounds like oldskool hip-hop slang (i.e. the Nike commercials with Spike Lee and Michael Jordan), but whatever. This film rocks.And it's not just the screenplay. Doug Liman has a flare with his optical lens as he paints the town of Los Angels, adding so many in-jokes and smirky, sharky point of view shots. There's also an appearance from Heather Graham (post-DRUGSTORE COWBOY, pre-BOOGIE NIGHTS) near the end in a sweet, lovely role no matter how small.This is a good movie to watch with the guys, but probably (in a strange way) makes an even better date movie with your own personal baby. Are better still, if you can't stay still on the couch, check out the nearest bar and nightclub to get your game on. Just watch out for the old couple live entertainment playing Staying Alive out of tune.    "},{"Title":"If you read this review, you'll be money baby and the beautiful babies will dig ya!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers is the ultimate guy movie about explaining relationships. It is a movie that is so fun and hip to watch that it makes the viewer go out and buy a copy. Its status is solidified by the fact that while it was only made for $250,000 that it has influenced an entire subculture of America. Most of its stars have gone on to bigger projects but this remains their best work to date. If I could recommend twenty movies to watch on a deserted island, this would be one of them.  "},{"Title":"Swingin'","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers tells the story of Jon Favreau, a down on his luck comedian who has come to LA from New York to pursue a career but he can't get on with his life because of a girlfriend he left back at home. The film concentrates on his friends attempts to get him back into the swing of things.Favreau who also wrote the script gives such a lovely performance that you can't help rooting for him even if he is a loser. His friend Trent (Vince Vaughan) is a much more confident guy and is one of the most likable guys you will ever see in the movie. Swingers made Favreau and Vaughan stars and it's not hard to see why.The movie references are a plenty. Reservoir Dogs, Goodfellahs, Jaws. And all this adds to the LA feel. Not every actor has it easy but they can dream of starring in the best parts. One of the swingers gets to dress up as Goofy at Disneyland. It's not really an acting part but hey, it's Disney.It's a guy's romantic comedy and I don't know would girls get it. But for guy's it's a must see. Rent it but I recommend buying it because once you watch these guys you're not going to want to stop. "},{"Title":"This is the money and it doesn't even know it!","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw Swingers, I felt that I had found the ultimate film about young guys dealing with the sort of problems all young guys have to deal with.  Finding work, pining over some girl who you broke up with 6 months ago, pretending you are the money, even though you don't even know it (or whatever), waiting the right amount of days before you call a girl, drinking too much etc...  This film has such an amazing unassuming style.  It brings back memories of the brat-pack (from the fifties, not the eighties), swing clubs and Sinatra.I read an interview with Doug Liman the other day, which said that the film was only made to show to Hollywood producers!  It was not even supposed to make cinemas, let alone become the cult hit it has become.  I LOVE this film!  Excellent performances from actors, especially Vince Vaughn.  Reall "},{"Title":"THERE IS ONLY ONE WORD TO DESCRIBE IT MONEY!!!!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is without a shadow of a doubt, one of the most entertaining movies of all time.  All guys will end up liking this movie.  I imagine that some girls will like this movie, because they can see what guys are thinking.  The movie made me think a lot about how real life it is.  I'm 10 years younger then most of the late 20 year old actors in the movie, but I've already experienced some of the issues that Swingers dealed with. The dating, the wondering when you should call a beautiful baby, how to talk and how to act.  The friendship that Mike has with different types (Trent, Rob, Charles, and Sue) shows how guys that at times don't have much in common can interact and be friends.  The scenes where Mike tells a joke that isn't that funny is so sad, but so real.  Any guy will admit they've told a stupid line to a girl, and wished they could have taken it back.  The dialogue is witty and fresh.  The monologue which Mike explains to Trent about why he doesn't like the girl's at clubs and bars had me rolling. Trent's pep talk to Mike about being the guy in the rated r movies is also one of the best parts of the movie.  This movie is more real then the blair witch project, and 100 times better.  Watch this movie on cable, rent it, or buy it because the movie is so MONEY. "},{"Title":"Truly the story of guys in the 90's.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the first REAL guy movie in that it is actually about what life is like being a late 20's early 30's single man in America, or at least LA. The group dynamics of a pack of males is so accurately portrayed here it is amazing.  There is the alpha male Trent, the alpha in training Sue, the submissive thinker Mike, and the followers Rob, et al.  The intragroup discussion is dry, witty, bordering on cruel, but dead-on. You probably have to be from LA to truly understand how accurate to LA this movie is. Pure fun, the joy of dialog. "}{"Title":"Better than Titanic!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I finally caught Swingers, since it's a movie a lot of people have been blabbering on about. I honestly did'nt expect too much from this film, as I, I don't know, just thought it was all going to be too clever for it's own good. So that's what I had in mind when I sat down to watch it. Boy, is this a GREAT movie. I have to say, it's been a while since I've enjoyed a movie THIS much. I just love everything in this movie, the acting is bang on, the story (really there's not that much of one) is great, but it's just the chemistry between the two friends that make this movie TOTALLY work. Hell, this is better then Titanic. By Far. "},{"Title":"my second favorite","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i loved it the sega hockey seen was perfect and trent's crack of there's no clocks in this town was genius.  and the music was perfect for every scene.  also mike calling trent double down in the second hockey scene was great. have to watch it over and over. enjoy the small things. "},{"Title":"The plight of the single man. Homo Desperatus","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The title of this film suggests to many the promise of many nubile, naked, open-minded, free-spirited nymphs looking for a night of romping sexual liberation.Sadly, this is not the case. Swingers is however a humourous peek into the male thought process in relation to the pursuit of the opposite sex. In essence, it's a real guys film, but the chicks dig it too.Some of Swingers finest moments are simple portrayals of the weakness and desperation of the single man who is trying to get over a break-up with a long-term girlfriend. His friends push and prod him into re-entering the meat-market of L.A. night-life and attempt to boost his waning self confidence, with little to no success.The making of this magical independent film is the stuff of fairy tales. The dream realization and star making of a number of gifted actors and filmmakers has transpired. Vince Vaughn is charming and convincing as the kind of guy who would take much pleasure from seeing his buddy getting laid and moving on. Jon Favreau is the pained, desperate victim of heartbreak and struggles to feel comfortable in the dating scene. Ron Livingston plays the truly helpful and sympathetic friend who knows what it's like to have loved and lost. All three of these fine lads have moved on to varying degrees of post-Swingers success. I honestly can't say how much Swingers has done for the now superstar Heather Graham. In this one case, I believe she did more for the film than it did for her. Perhaps she has a different take on that, though. All I mean to say by that is, by the time this film was out, she was well on her way already.As for Swingers success itself, it has done tremendously well for a film financed by numerous maxed-out credit cards of cast and crew, (so the legend goes anyway). It's impossible to tell how many other films have been made in such a fashion and then not rescued or picked up by a distributor. It's kind of disheartening just to think of all the never-was'. But with its undeniable appeal, it's not hard to see what inspired these bold filmmakers to take a chance and double down.  "},{"Title":"Yer money baby","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first viewed this film after reading a review which described a bunch of guys turning their back on the healthy living of modern America. After watching Swingers, I decided the guy who wrote the review must have been talking about some other film. Swingers was beyond my expectations. An immense film which I watch again every so often. Story cool, actors immensely cool, music very hip, and loads of great catchphrases to pick up on. Could this be the first really cool love story?Loved it. "},{"Title":"It's so money and it doesn't even know it.","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film manages to be a character driven indie on a low budget without ever being contrived or trying to be too clever, Vince Vaughn is the personification of cool and Favreau plays the Allen-tinged hapless romantic with subtlety. An excellent example of how to make a great entertaining movie on a moderate budget without reverting to arty cliches. The cinematography is also great fun and expertly managed. A great film on all counts, make sure you see it if you haven't already.  "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest movies in recent history","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers -- the only movie I could watch after a tough night with some beautiful babies and serious drink.  In all seriousness though, this movie is one that anyone can relate to.  It's made for my generation, and it is something that we all see within our lives.  Mikey's struggle with life after having his heart broken and Trent's love for the ladies; it's a story about life.  It's a story about everyone you will ever know and everyone you will ever meet.  We are all someone in that movie, and most of us -- the lucky ones -- can relate ourselves to Mikey.  But, we all want to be viewed as Trent -- the funloving, outgoing, party guy.  We love this movie for all that it stands for, and all it can help us achieve.  And Rollergirl Heather Graham (Lorraine) doesn't hurt either. "},{"Title":"Only Mike gets a Clue","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Entertaining film, well written and very well acted. This is probably the way a lot of guys of this generation think and operate, just like every previous generation had guys who thought they had to be hip, cool or money to feel good about themselves and impress each other and women. What I really liked about the film is how the guy who seems the most insecure on the outside, in pain and never refers to himself or anyone as money. ( actually seems to cringe at the word) is the one who gets real and honest and subsequently meets a great girl. The final scene is great, Mike seems truly transformed and moving on in his life and there's his buddy Trent still playing his pick up games with a woman who in reality hasn't even noticed him. The disparity of the two men at this point is paramount. This movie is funny and contains material I think a lot of men can relate to, and whether intentional or not also contains strong commentary on how men deal with their feelings of inadequacy in life. "},{"Title":"Its so money you don't even know!","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to say, before I saw this movie, I had no clue who Vince Vaughn was, no idea who Jon Favreau was, and whose Doug Liman.  After Swingers I became a big fan of all three.  Other then the terrible remake of Pycho Vince Vaughn has been up and coming.  He was very good in Return to Paradise and I loved his character in Clay Pigeons.  Doug Liman has been able to back up Swingers with another movie, highly underrated, Go. Jon Favreau has yet to find that good movie role because Very Bad Things was very bad.  I did like his cameos in Friends so lets hope that his movie Marciano does well for Shotime.  As for Swingers I got three words Get a nightlife.  What a tagline, perfect for the movie.  Doug Liman does a great job directing this group of talent.  And the movie really does show how most guys think.  Whether you are more like Trent (Vaughn) or more like Mike (Favreau).  Overall this movie gets a 10, It was money.  I really loved it, I thought the characters were unforgettable and found myself wanting to hang out with these guys. "},{"Title":"One of the best independent movies.","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers, along with Clerks, really define an indepandent movie.  If a big studio were watching over this movie, the dialog would be nitpicked to make it appeal to more demographics, and most of the humorous scenes would be cut for they would ask, what does that have to do with the story.  In fact, Swingers has almost no story, it is simply the events that happen around a struggling actor who has broken up with his girlfriend 6 months ago.  It is all about the language and attitude and image.  That is where the movie shines.  Sure it looks a little gritty but that gives it character.  But you can forget about everything I think defines an independent and just watch this movie, it is excellent.  10/10 "},{"Title":"Mikey's The Winner!","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jon Favreau has done an outstanding job with writing this film.  The cast was superb, especially Vince Vaughn.  His performance was acted perfectly as the character of Trent.  It's no wonder his career has propelled into what it is today. The perfect guy movie, is what I'd call Swingers.   "}{"Title":"Accurate portrayal of the quirks of guys","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although you may not be able to relate to the situations in this movie (either you are not in Hollywood/LA or you are a female), the script incorporates many of the common features of your typical 90's guy.  Right on, dry humor and sly wit.  The scene of them playing the Hockey video game is me in College.  People who don't like it probably don't get it.  That is OK, it is pretty specific humor in a different vein.  "},{"Title":"Very Funny Guy Movie","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A guy movie that doesn't involve machine guns and cars blowing up - actually I believe it would be entertaining to men and women alike.  I found myself laughing out loud in several spots, and grinning like an idiot.  Though I'm dangerously close to middle age, the feelings and conversations of the characters in this movie were similar to those I had in my twenties, and most adults will be able to identify with the plot. This movie is not without an edge, though.  If you, like I do, wince a bit every time you hear the F-word you may have a problem with the language. This movie is not for young children.  All in all, though, very entertaining and I expect I'll be watching it again.  "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining movies ever.","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was possibly one of the most entertaining movies I have ever seen! Nothing more really needs to be said.  "},{"Title":"Who's the big winner?","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers.  Swingers wins.  Or at least it should've.  1996 was the year of the independent, unfortunately this movie wasn't noticed by the critics, well at least when it should've been.  There is no way that The English Patient (Yawn) was better than this.  "},{"Title":"This movie was MONEY!!!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the most masterful films I have ever seen.  It couldn't have been directed more ingeniously by Doug Liman.  Jon Favreau couldn't have been more on the money with this script, I couldn't believe that such a story could come from one insignificant man.  Vince Vaughn is the definition of charisma and because of this movie I have decided to see Psycho (the remake).  Jon Favreau also acted beautifully.  I am trying to describe this movie, but there are no words to describe its excellence and greatness.  Everyone has to see it.  After it you kind of feel like you instantly want to go out on the town and learn how to swing, pick up babies, and be as money as you can.  This movie gives you self-confidence while telling you that you have to be yourself in order to find the right person. I am forever changed because of this movie.  I'd like to thank Jon Favreau for bring such a script to this world and Doug Liman for directing such a masterpiece.   "},{"Title":"This movie was MONEY!!!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the most masterful films I have ever seen.  It couldn't have been directed more ingeniously by Doug Liman.  Jon Favreau couldn't have been more on the money with this script, I couldn't believe that such a story could come from one insignificant man.  Vince Vaughn is the definition of charisma and because of this movie I have decided to see Psycho (the remake).  Jon Favreau also acted beautifully.  I am trying to describe this movie, but there are no words to describe its excellence and greatness.  Everyone has to see it.  After it you kind of feel like you instantly want to go out on the town and learn how to swing, pick up babies, and be as money as you can.  This movie gives you self-confidence while telling you that you have to be yourself in order to find the right person. I am forever changed because of this movie.  I'd like to thank Jon Favreau for bring such a script to this world and Doug Liman for directing such a masterpiece.   "},{"Title":"It's so money, Baby!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie!  It's funny and heartfelt, keeps you interested in the plot as it keeps you laughing!  Swingers is so money and it doesn't even know it, Baby! "},{"Title":"A true-to-life film, with a down-to-earth feel.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's rare when you encounter a film like Swingers. For me, it shows one of the biggest hardships that a guy can face, namely women. The movie itself is like a testament to guys everywhere. Whether it be scouting the nightclubs, lookin for beautiful babies, or just hanging around the house playing hockey on your old Sega Genesis. You can relate with the film in one way or another. The acting is truly splendid. It's almost as if this film is a documentary, solely in the fact how convincing the performances are. Especially Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau....for this is still their best work. Humor and friendship has never been so cleverly displayed.Bottom line....and I think I speak for many in saying this.....IT'S MONEY BABY!!!! "},{"Title":"There's movies that touches you and there's Swingers that gives you a big hug just like the ones your best friend gives you when the both of you are drunk.","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swingers portraits life itself ...at least as it is for five guys that get to taste the non-always sweet but mostly fun flavour of the nightlife.The conversations and some particular quotes make out of Swingers a Bible for many of us where is written almost every passage of our life. The story is fine but it's the way it has been told what makes this movie the classic it has become into. The characters are good but the core of the movie is the fantastic duo composed by the cool and cheering up Trent (Vince Vaughn) and the always depressed and recently dumped Mike (John Favreau) both opposite poles that couldn't match better.The laughing never stops but they are moments where actually you don't know if laughing is the right thing to do because the movie features really unpleasant situations portrayed in a very realistic and sometimes raw way.The movie got style the story's rhythm is fantastically taken but it is what they do and say what makes of Swingers...so money!  "},{"Title":"Pure Quality","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the movie that proves beyond all doubt that a big budget and big name stars do not make a classic. Clever plot, great acting and slick direction make Swingers a movie that everyone should see, but unfortunately probably won't. It's a bit of a non-event film- nothing really of note happens, but the dialogue elevates Swingers into the realm of the films of the decade. See it. "}{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the essential movie to see.  Incredible hipness.  A simple week in the life that has changed the way we talk, think, and act.  I haven't seen anything this original in a long time.  And when was the last time we had a real guy movie?  This one is a classic!  So, I ask you, who's the big winner? Swingers is the big winner! "},{"Title":"This Bunny Thinks It's Money!","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film on video 6 months ago. It became the first movie I ever watched again the next day before I returned it. Now, I have DSS, and I thank the Sundance Channel for providing me with my Swingers fix every few days. This is the ultimate movie for Gen-X film buffs. It's the ultimate movie for anyone who's ever had a gang of friends. What can I say, it's the ultimate movie! "},{"Title":"Several friends in LA try to cheer up one of the gang by going around parties and bars trying to pick up girls.","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is probably the most true-to-life fiction movie ever made.  It depicts a life of several good friends in their 20's, which mainly consists of playing video games, ordering pizza, drinking, and picking up chicks.  There is both a lot of sarcasm and silliness.  As a result, this low-budget film has an air of intimacy with the viewer and is very easy to relate to. "},{"Title":"Money!","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     This movie has invigorated a new kind of hipness around the country  nowadays. Not only is the swing era back on the scene, but terminology like  money and beautiful babies have taken on entirely new meanings. And yet , all that hipness serves only as a backdrop for this story of a man's  struggle to forget about his old love and try to move on. Jon Favreau has  such a sympathetic air around him that you constantly want to see  everything work out for him, just like those guys in the PG-13 movies. And  with this film, Vince Vaughn has established a name for himself as one of  the most charismatic new stars around. So here it is, a film destined to be  a cult classic for years to come. "},{"Title":"Mikey's (Jon Favreau) phone call late at night to Niki just has you dying!","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Vince Vaughn as Trent really made his break out role. Most people in high school / college had this smooth talking guy who always seemed to know where the party is and how to get the girl's number. He's a mile-a-minute jester who is trying to get a girl and be a good friend to Mikey (Jon Favreau). Mikey's phone call late at night to Niki just has you dying. For every guy who ever was lonely and weak -- that scene should be the wake-up call of your life.Some of the greatest one-liners are from that movie -- You're money, baby! -- Buy the DVD and keep it in your library for when your guy friends break up and need to go to Vegas Baby! "},{"Title":"An amazing Feel good film..for guys however","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In my experience, not generally accepted by women, they don't seem to enjoy it. For guys, however, i haven't met anyone who hasn't loved this! I've even met people at parties who i've heard randomly quote a line, which I've noticed and joined in with the quote, only finding out that a good number of the guys at the party adore this film!as a final note, i don't know many men that have only watched this film once, i watch it every now and then, sometimes a few times a month or more!It's an amazing, feel good film that can pick a guy up from ANY breakup or down moment!Extremely recommended, one of my favourite films!!!! "},{"Title":"favreau's best?","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you're a fan of jon favreau or vince vaughn then watching swingers is a must. The film, written by favreau, follows aspiring comedian Mike Peters (favreau) and some of his buddies after they move from New York to Hollywood, hoping to make it big. The change of scenery proves not to be as fruitful as peters had hoped. In fact, after six months he still hasn't been able to land a good gig and, also, can't seem to get over Michelle (his ex-girlfriend of six years). In order to to get Mike back in the game, Trent (Vaughn) forces him to go out to the bars and even to Las Vegas during the middle of the week. All in all, I enjoyed a favreau script that was filled with countless quips and great dialogue almost as much as the acting. A young Vince Vaughn steals the show with a breakthrough performance as the humorous and energetic Trent, a role quite similar to the one he played in Wedding Crashers. In addition, Ron Livingston is excellent in a supporting role as Rob, who Mike often turns to for guidance with his women problems. So, if you're looking to watch a movie with witty writing, solid acting, and a lot of laughs then Swingers should fit the bill. "},{"Title":"Very funny and cool thanks to a natural and witty script, shame it is so heavily misogynistic at times","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Set in a world of unemployed actors working in Los Angeles, we join Mike Peters as he tries to get over being dumped by his girlfriend of six years. Unfamiliar with the scene and not wanting to leave his apartment the task of rehabilitation into the world of the single male falls to his friend Trent. A trip to Vegas is the first step of their journey across a barren landscape of beautiful babies, parties, call backs, video games and discussions on the art of picking up women.To some degree it does depend on your age and your circumstances as to whether or not this film will do anything for you. With Favreau's personal connection to the world of the film, he has plenty of sharp lines and funny characters. With more of a vibe than a narrative, it will appeal mostly to those of a similar age who can relate to the world of the cocky single male because the strength of the film is not in a linear story but in the characters and the place. As such some may not like it because it is rather misogynistic at heart but yet expects us to like the characters and care about their journey round LA picking up girls (or failing to in Mike's case). Strangely though, it works, because we do like the characters and I found myself with them at the same time as laughing at them. It is to Favreau's credit as writer that he delivers some good characters and plenty of quotable and memorable lines that made me laugh regularly.Favreau is spot on with his awkward, defeatist character who always finds himself on the edge of the group and manages to say the one thing that kills the flow of a group. He is tragicomic and his delivery is mostly convincing and it was only the odd moment where I felt he was doing a Woody Allen impression. He carries the story well but he does have every scene stolen from under him by Vince Vaughn doing what we love him for. Watching him doing his wonderfully smarmy lounge lizard act is a joy and highlights some of the time recently where he has been doing the same with lesser lines. Here Favreau gives him some great lines &#150; his character is an arrogant a$$hole perhaps but he is great fun to watch from a safe distance. The rest of the cast fill in with well-observed guy roles and do well enough although you do have to wonder why Graham and Langton turned in cameos given that the script offers so little in return for them to do.Overall this is a smart, slick comedy with great lines and an engaging world of single men. It is convincing and the script doesn't let them have it all their own way (the final scene is a nice way of reminding us this) and the only downside of it was that it is a very male film and does have a thick streak of misogyny running through it. "},{"Title":"Money","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of those periodic movies that briefly reinvents the language, Swingers is, there's no two ways about it, money.  It centres around a bunch of guys who shoot the breeze, go to Vegas, play poker, try to pick up girls and generally make themselves look foolish.  This is also the plot.  It's a little movie that made big stars out of its cast, although the director has yet to live up to its promise.  And the answerphone scene was an instant classic. "},{"Title":"Great Movie for Guys, OK movie for Gals","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every guy can appreciate the plot of trying to get back into the (dating) game after a long-term relationship.  In this movie, you see how he comes through it both in terms of his swinging friends AND in spite of them.  The tone of the dialogue is very similar to the movie Clerks but with a much better tempo. There is also some great music cameos by Big Bad Voodoo Daddy. This is a good movie for the guy's night of poker or drinking. However, I doubt many of the gals will be too keen as the fellas on this one (mine couldn't get into it and she likes Swing Music). Otherwise, have a gin and tonic with this one with the boys and enjoy. "}{"Title":"This movie is so *&^%$# money!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really don't know what it is about this movie, but it's one of the better movies I've ever seen.  Its got a super simple plot with the coolest characters.  Maybe it's just that the characters are very similar to people I know.  Trent, Sue, Mike, Rob, Charles, they're all awesome!  This is one of those movies that you can quote all day long and just have a blast with your buddies.There definitely isn't anything bad I can say about this movie, it's great from start to finish and never boring.  I truly hope that you will enjoy this film as much as I do.  I can't really say much else, than PLEASE SEE THIS MOVIE!  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Best film I've ever seen","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Impossible to describe how good this film is. The characterisation is fantastic. The focus of the film never wavers. There are layers of interpretation and observation throughout, which make the film come to life. It is like real life on the screen, it's like going out with friends and savouring their defeats and their triumphs. Swingers inspires a feeling of vitality and continuity in life beyond any other film I've ever seen. It doesn't deal in global issues, the rich, the powerful, the important, or the unfortunate. It doesn't deal in drugs, or crime, or violence. Other films do that well enough, but not one other film captures the essence of feeling good in your life the way Swingers does.Watch it, it's the money. "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" wow i cant believe this movie. it was in the free movie section of my com cast and i thought alright. right from the beginning i liked this. its kind of like roger doger and i liked it 4 the same reason. but its definitely an individual. everyone did a great job in in and played there parts well. great funny drama. Vince van and the guy from office space were in it. i just really liked this movie I'm going 2 show it 2 all of my friends. its a great movie 2 watch with everyone except your parents i guess. such a great film. no other film is like it really. everyone should see it, love it, and buy it. vegas baby vegas. thats money. im going 2 start saying all of these things. man i loved this movie. im going 2 show it 2 all my friends. "},{"Title":"Should be in the top 100","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can not fathom why this movie is not in any of the Top Movies list. At the very least this stands as the greatest guy movie I've ever seen. Hollywood loves to churn out those hey, we're regular guys just like you! movies, but they rarely work. The jokes are contrived, the chemistry is forced, the characters remind me of no one that I know in my life, and the dialogue is written by middle-aged men. People in their 20's are supposed to relate to that?? This movie worked because these guys really WERE friends and, essentially, filmed their lives. Would Jerry Bruckheimer have thought to include the immortal NHL 95 scene? Of course not. Could any writer that was not in their 20's give us so many quotable lines? I was 20 when this film was released and it instantly went into my HOF. Not to sound corny, but there are very few films that I feel connected to. Swingers is one. Aside from the laughs, this film is extremely intelligent at times. Rob's advice to Mikey remains one of the most poignant monologues I have seen in any film. Luckily for us, Favreau was smart enough to deliver a movie that can cut to the core of a problem that every guy will experience at some point in his life without trying to get too preachy or sentimental. I hope to see Swingers break into that top movies list soon. "},{"Title":"Girl Problems","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Enjoyed this very down to earth film about a bunch of guys who are all looking for something special in the gals they meet and the boredom of the routine dating system everyone goes through in order to find a lasting relationship. This one guy goes with a gal for six years and then all of a sudden they drift a part yet the guy never stops thinking about her even though he meets other women and nothing seems to compare to this relationship. For some reason, this guy never seems to realize that he is deeply in love with this gal and needs to made her number one on his list of dates or better yet a simple phone call. Lots of comedy, drama and fantastic acting by all the actors. "},{"Title":"Just so cool, I mean, money!","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I won't waste my time trying to explain why this movie is great. Let's just say it's one of my favorite's's. If you liked High Fidelity or Chasing Amy you might also like this one here. Don't be fooled this is a comedy, OK, but also a very sensitive movie. Since this may also be misleading, simply be aware that this movie depicts the young male psyche in a very real way. If you're a woman, watch this movie and it will help you understand men better you will know what we do at night and what we're looking for. Yes, we're childish, but also sensitive, at times. For the men, you'll probably recognize yourself in one of the characters, reminisce your night outs and maybe learn a few tricks. "},{"Title":"Swingers Top 10 Reasons Why this Movis is Good","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Swingers could be a hip movie, a Guys movie, great-sagacious-advice movie, a warm-amusing movie, this-is-what-friendship-is-about movie, or simply one of the most facetious for-a-lark flicks of the 90s. But whatever tag you wish to stick on it, this honest, low-budget humdinger from Liman is very very money! Top 10 reasons to get your hands on this movie now (1) It's fast-paced, well edited (not one wasted scene) and frequently laugh-out-loud funny. If you hear people dismiss this as an inconsequential narrative about a bunch of losers trying to get laid, I'm afraid they just have not watched the entire movie. I am not into the Spy who shagged me genre of humor, but this movie will truly grow on you.(2) It'll ring a bell with almost anyone, particularly guys. Mike -- a crestfallen loverboy (Jon Favreau) is in the throes of a breakup, and his confidence has hit rock bottom. (Sidenote Favreau is a very ordinary looking guy, which in fact imho is the power of his character.) Under the aegis of his friend Trent (Vince Vaughn, in top form, a lot better than his controlled acting in, gulp, The Psycho) Mike re-learns how to get back up on his feet and take reins of his life/emotions again. While this happens, we are treated to a bunch of every-day faux pas that we all can identify with in a blink. Interested yet? (3) The boys' camaraderie is infectious. If you watch this movie with friends -- and this indeed is the best way to watch it! -- you'll know what I mean. This has to be one of the most honest portrayals of relationships between friends -- both the lover and the platonic variety.(4) Call me weird but I loved the sound track, a delectable blend of underground jazz and triphop.(5) Some of the get back on your feet dialogue for Mike is truly marvellous, and makes for better, more down-to-earth, more inspiring advice about life and relationships than Dr. Ruth and Oprah put together.(6) An interesting look at the Los Angeles we never see in films, the underground life of the struggling actors and writers and less glamorous people, not living in Malibu opulence as seen in other weaker films.(7) Some great Sega Genesis NHL ice-hockey footage (to use a dignified term) and an unusual preview of seeing Gretzky's head knocked.(8) This is to men what Sex and the City is to women. (Ok, SATC has had a lot more time than Swingers to entice us with the workings of the Modern Woman, but you get the idea) (9) A wide assortment of one-liners for you to conveniently plagiarize from. Not seen in a single movie since Roxanne with Steve Martin.(10) Oh, and it's so laid back, its horizontal. No spiffy visual FX, no crash boom bang, no cheap frills. But still a high handsome homerun. "},{"Title":"One of Top 10 greatest","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the greatest movies that I have ever seen. Its the most accurate movie depicting what the nightlife is like for guys looking for love. John Favreau's character is great as an out of work actor with no confidence or self esteem. Vince Vaughn is also great as one of Favreau's best friends Mike. It depicts what life is like when you have no money or no job. Livingston is also great as Favreau's closest friend. Because we all have that one person that we can tell our insecurities and feelings to and Livingston is great at guiding Favreau's character into safer waters. Helping him understand women and why they do the things they do. This movie is great because men and women can enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Swingers, a man's man movie.","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Swingers is such a great guy's movie. Maybe you just graduated from college or are looking for a great job or trying to get over an ex, this movie says it all so open, honest, and funny. I think this movie started new trends and the soundtrack should be in everyones collection. I would love to see Mr Favreau do a sequel or another movie like this. I love when in the end, they are going to have a substantial and deep conversation and are distracted by the woman. They never get to the conversation, which is so true when it comes to guys. I know this movie is almost 10 years old, but it is one of my favorites, you must own the movie and the soundtrack. Jon, I would love an extra role in your next movie! "},{"Title":"Save the Derby!","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Perhaps my favorite scene, the turning point of Mikey's character, takes place here, at the Derby. Perfect culmination of music, emotion and risk-taking on the character's part. I can watch it over and over again. No other band than Big Bad Voodoo Daddy could have done a better job.Please help! All of you guys who loved this scene and this movie must help preserve a little part of Hollywood history. The new owners of the Derby (featured in Swingers) plan on tearing it down and replacing it with a huge chain supermarket and condos. The neighborhood is devastated and we're fighting with all we have to prevent this from happening. Please google Save the Derby and do what you can. "}{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There have been some great movies in my time (and times before me), but none have compared to the true-to-life feeling created by Swingers. Each character represents some part of every man, and even women for that matter, in the way we conduct our every day lives, the aspirations that we strive for, and most importantly the relationships we have with our friends, family, and girlfriends/boyfriends/spouse. I have watched this movie at least 50 times, and never fail to laugh at the same jokes and always manage to find some new nuance to the film that I had never noticed before. This is a classic of our time, and I would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"classic comedy","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Whenever I think of great comedies, Swingers is at the top of my list. Favreau and Vaughn are a great comic team and this film delivers more laughs than just about any film I have seen in the last ten years. You especially appreciate it if you have ever lived in Southern California. The scene where they all take off to a party in their individual cars got especially big laughs from me and my wife as we recall how car crazy it can get in that part of the country. I think Vaughn is one of the great comic actors of this era and this is definitely one of his best films to date. I recently saw Some Like It Hot again after many, many years and I think Swingers is on an equal basis. "},{"Title":"A movie that will change... the way you talk","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This kind of movie paradox comes once in a few years - it has flaws in directing, writing and acting, yet it stuns you and leaves you wanting to get into movies no matter what. Or at least get packed and go the Vegas. Vegas, baby, Vegas! It an absolute must-see, absolute cult buddy-movie, and no matter that 10 years have passed, it's dialog will get under your tongue. Show it to your friends and watch them start swinger-slanging' the next day. Hell, it even makes 90s look great.With all it's shortcomings, Swingers still has what moves 'perfect' movies lack - the magic of cinema of being the life itself. "},{"Title":"Swingers is a classic","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is such a classic for one simple reason. Mike's life is a lot like all of our lives. The tale of lost love of trying to find comfort in a new life is reality. It is something we all go through. I think that is what attracts people to this film. We all have those friends who try to help us to our feet. Trent is the guy who really looks out for you but comes off strong. Rob is the really good listener who you trust the most. I think this film is an excellent look into our way of dealing with romantic problems. It is, so to speak, a guy's chick flick. I think people should view this film for its comedy of course, but also, for the reality of the film. Jon Favreu did an excellent job of capturing reality. He also opens the door for other aspiring film writers to do the same. "},{"Title":"Funny and uncomfortable","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mike (Jon Favreau, who also wrote the screenplay) lost his girlfriend Michelle six months ago and still talks about that everyday. He needs to be cheered up so Trent (Vince Vaughn) takes him to Vegas. They hook up with some waitresses, Trent gets what he wanted from one of them and Mike keeps talking about his lost girlfriend to the other one. After Vegas we follow Mike, Trent and others like Rob (Ron Livingston) and Sue (Patrick Van Horn). They go to coffee shops and talk about nothing, they visit parties where they try to hook up with girls.The movie starts with one uncomfortable scene after another involving Mike. You feel sorry for him, not because he lost his girlfriend but because he doesn't stop whining about it. Trent keeps saying how money Mike actually is.I don't think she liked me anyway.Oh Mike, I'm telling you man, she thought you were money.The scenes are uncomfortable but inventive in their own ways as well. Oh, and they are pretty funny. There is a scene where they talk about movies. First someone is mentioning the opening sequence in 'Reservoir Dogs' where the gang walks in slow motion. Then another one says Tarantino steals from Scorsese in his movies. The third one ends the conversation with I don't see what the big deal is, I mean everybody steals from everybody, that's movies. This conversation is followed by the gang walking in slow motion as in the opening sequence from 'Reservoir Dogs', and a scene with cars driving away definitely taken from 'Goodfellas'. Yes, this movie steals from other movies, it knows it does so, and it only improves this movie. About fifteen minutes before the end we see the first scene with Mike that is not uncomfortable. It made me kind of happy to see he also can do good and nice, that he really can be money.Not the greatest movie you have ever seen, but definitely worth watching, very funny with some very nice dialogue and some good movie-stealing. "},{"Title":"So money! Indie gem Favs & Vin are a modern day Abbott & Costello","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" SWINGERS (1996) ***1/2 Jon Favreau, Vince Vaughn, Ron Livingston, Patrick Van Horn, Alex Desert, Deena Martin, Katherine Kendall, Brooke Langton, Blake Lindsley, Heather Graham.Hilarious independent film about a group of LA swingers led by recently transplanted from Queens, NY lovelorn Favreau (who wrote the above average screenplay) looking for love in all the wrong places with his pseudo hipster babies who think he's money despite his self-deprecation. Part Diner , part Tarantino/Scorsese film with some truly riotous moments particularly Favreau's pathetic yet poignant run in with an answering machine that perfectly captures the desperation we all have in the courting game of love. Directed smartly by newcomer Doug Liman. "},{"Title":"A Movie of Subtle Charms","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I own Swingers, but for a long time I didn't.  I saw it on video, enjoyed it as pleasant fluff and that was that.  But it's a movie that stuck in the back of my mind, and whenever I'd be at a video store I'd ask Have you seen Swingers?  Sometimes to total strangers, but that's really another story.  Anyway, the damn thing itched at me until I bought my copy.  Now I watch it every couple of months, and it's a film that gets better with each viewing.Don't misunderstand, I still think it's little more than pleasant fluff.  But on repeat viewings you appreciate the subtle humor (This is a funny movie that doesn't have jokes in it), and the fine direction by Doug Liman, as well as the wonderfully personal script by star Jon Favreau.   You can tell that everyone involved in this movie cared about what they were doing.The supporting characters are all well observed and highly believable from the fish-out-of-water Rob to the wild-ladies-man Trent. Like another movie I enjoy very much, High Fidelity, this is a simple film in which the characters seem as if they are real people that one could bump into on the street.  That's a quality that's not often seen in films, and one that works even less of the time (Generally we go to movies for escapism).  In Swingers it does.  Again and again. "},{"Title":"good for a few good laughs","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this was part of a series of boy movies that all seemed to come out at the same time.  it is very amusing although at times a bit much.  vince vaughn and jon favreau are fantastic.  pretty run of the mill story but the characters make it very funny and worth watching.  great dialogue. "},{"Title":"Here's a better title for this movie Losers.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If this is the best someone could do with a million dollar budget, then some people really don't know where to invest their money. This movie totally sucked. There was no plot device or point to the outcome, and the characters were much too annoying to be interesting. They were yaking. Yaking Woody Allen-style. Yet Woody Allen films can be funny and colorful sometimes. This movie wasn't It was a long  dull, boring talkfest. And it was only 90 minutes! Reminded me of the film Kicking and Screaming. An independent film which started out funny at first until it proved itself as being a one-concept premise. Swingers is similar.  The best part of this movie is when Favreau (One of the most interesting characters in this mess) calls that woman he met at the bar until he gets so desparate that he leaves 6 messsages on the message machine. She finally answers the phone, tells him never to call again and then hangs up on him...If only I did the same for this movie a minute after it started.  "},{"Title":"Not completely money but still good","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps I would have loved this movie if I was more into the cocktail, or lounge, culture portrayed here.  I don't mind retro, but this movement turns me off.  Still, as a guys romantic comedy, this is good.  As one critic said, this works because it understands most romantic comedy takes place before boy meets girl(in that respect, this movie reminds me of DINER, which was also a study of guys trying to relate to women, though that one was better).  Unlike many, I thought the answering machine scene went on too long, but otherwise, I liked Favreau(as everyone else pointed out, who can't identify with him?), and of course liked Vaughan a lot.  And I loved the RESEVOIR DOGS and GOODFELLAS parodies, and of course that final scene is a classic. "}]