[{"Title":"not too shabby","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Solo is a pretty good movie.  Mario Van Peeble is good as Solo, the andriod soldier that learns to think for himself.  When he escapes from his superiors and takes refuge in a small mexican village, he agrees to help the villagers defend themselves against a rebel and his army.  The action scenes are good, and the fight at the end between Solo and the bad android is awesome.  "},{"Title":"Frankly, I Tuned In To See Adrien Brody!","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I stumbled on SOLO on cable TV and realized Adrien Brody, one of my favorite actors, was third-billed in this Mario Van Peebles action flick, I decided to record it and check it out later for the heck of it.  Turns out that was a good idea, since I got the most enjoyment out of this derivative SF/action/adventure when I simply gave up and fast-forwarded to Brody's scenes as Solo's endearingly scruffy creator Dr. Bill Stewart (sounds like the kind of bland name they'd give the hero in a 1950s creature feature -- told you SOLO was derivative! -).  Brody's one of the few performers in the film who actually says his lines with heart and conviction.  When he was emoting opposite Van Peebles & Co., I wonder if Brody ever thought one day he'd be winning an Oscar for his starring turn in a Roman Polanski drama? -)  Adrien Brody fans, get the VCR ready; genre fans, try renting THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN, FRANKENSTEIN, THE TERMINATOR, or any of the other movies that SOLO rips off! -)  "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't think much of Solo when I first watched it.  But a couple of months later I watched it again and wow! did I miss something here! I loved it second time round.  This is Mario Van Peebles best performance in my opinion.  He was ok in Highlander 3 and average in Gunmen, but this is his best performance.A lot of people think this movie sucks. I can tell you that it doesn't suck, it's packed with action, cool stunts and awesome fight scenes.Oh yeah and the evil cyborgs gun at the end of the movie looks so much like the ones from Fortress.8/10 "},{"Title":"not too bad, a fun good time","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Solo is meant for fun. A war machine that doesn't want to fight. I loved the idea of a military AI deciding that life is precious, and there are things worth defending. Many other movies deal with AI running amok and killing, like Terminator and other sci-fi movies.If the concept of a autonomous android AI developing human-like consciousness doesn't bother you because of the 'reality,' then neither will the blatant boo-boos in this flick. There are some point worth considering, just to see them.. The final fight in the temple illustrates just how damaging war is - priceless history lost due to a struggle that won't amount to much in history. If you want a fun shoot-em-up with some comedy mixed in, this is for you. Watch for the scene with the naked-lady playing cards. "},{"Title":"I just watched Solo","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just watched Solo, and I don't think it's as bad as some reviewers have suggested. Of course, I'm not an action movie aficionado, so I have no preconceived preferences for Arnie, Sly, etc. I simply found the movie an enjoyable, maybe mindless, hour-and-a-half. Mario van Peebles did his best to present himself as a cyborg with human tendencies. Barry Corbin is always enjoyable when in his Maurice Minnifield persona. Adrien Brody is wonderfully emotive as the scientist who cares about his creation. My only question, after watching the movie, is how Solo continues to survive without anyone to repair his power management chip. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if somewhat clichéd","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Even the most precursory glance at his extensive film work, clearly shows that Mario Van Peebles has sadly never really made it as big in Hollywood as he deserves. Up until now for instance, his most well known roles have been the (enjoyably OTT) sorcerer Kane in Highlander 3 and as effective fish chow in the utterly risible Jaws The Revenge.The majority of his work tends to have been low key, direct to video fodder which is a real shame, as in my opinion, Peebles is a decent actor with a lot of unfulfilled potential. For instance, I know not whether he ever auditioned for the part, but I would be willing to bet that Peebles would have made a much better Blade than Wesley 'Pay my taxes?!!!' Snipes.Unfortunately, it has to be said that the film reviewed here is hardly likely to help Peebles career any either. In fact, I am slightly puzzled as to why he would have ever taken such a role in the first place (the money was good perhaps?) Peebles plays the eponymous hero of the title &#150; a state of the art, cybernetic weapon who it turns out is struggling with the contradictory nature of the callus orders given unto him by his superiors. On one such mission Solo deliberately sabotages the objective in order to spare some innocent civilians, much to the anger of his commanders who subsequently order him to be decommissioned. However, getting wind of this, Solo decides that self preservation is of the highest order and goes on the run, hotly pursued by a relentless, sadistic colonel (the ever superb William Sadler) who has a particular grudge against what Solo represents.Ending up in a small South American village, Solo is gradually befriended by the locals and begins to learn the nature of humanity. In addition, he serves as their protector from a ruthless gang of bandits. Of course, things don't stay happy for long and the army eventually locate him whereupon much explosive action ensues. Finally, Solo discovers that he is in fact not the only one of his kind when another android is sent to destroy him. Needless to say, there can be only one winner&#133;..Once again, I do wonder why Peebles chose to play such a role; As a guide, if you've ever watched (the gorgeous!) Jerry Ryan in Star Trek Voyager as Seven Of Nine, then you'll be able to clearly picture exactly how Peebles plays his part. Certainly, the role hardly pushes him as an actor in any way. On the other hand, Peebles did work himself into awesome physical shape for the role and apparently undertook some arduous military/combative style training regimes in order to capture the action authentically (although it has to be said that said scenes have not been exactly well handled by the director here).Whilst Peebles may not get to display at least his acting muscles, as mentioned before, Sadler is excellent as the psychopathic Colonal and it's also great to see an early role here from none other than Adrian Brody of The Pianist fame.At the end of the day, if approached in the right frame of mind, this proves to be a fairly enjoyable, if low key flick, albeit one that seems to take itself perhaps a little too seriously for my liking.Nonetheless, for less discriminating action junkies and fans of the whole android sub genre, this is a harmless enough way to spend an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Solo... the ultimate one-man army!","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here's a movie that knows its place and doesn't kid itself in trying to think it's anything intelligent or well-written. Solo simply wants to be a fun action movie, and it succeeds. Looking a lot like 2005's Stealth, only with lesser special effects, Solo (made almost a decade before Stealth) is a one-man army movie to the extreme. It stars Mario Van Peebles (remember him?) as Solo, an android built by the army that goes renegade and helps a group of farmers save their village. But the army wants their billion dollar project back, and will stop at nothing to get it! I enjoyed Solo on the grounds that you don't have to think very hard, and yet it still entertains. Mario Van Peebles does a fine job as the android, and I also noticed Adrien Brody as his programmer. Solo was bashed mainly because it was years behind its time. Had it been released the same year as Rambo, it may have found a wider audience. But if you like action and don't want things like plot or character development to get in the way, see Solo. It's a good action movie, and a fun 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"If you haven't seen it yet, watch it NOW!","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Solo is action packed and creates a riveting cinematic atmosphere.  Mario Van Peebles delivers one of the finest performances I've ever seen.  Mario Van Peebles stars as Solo, a robot made without a heart, but still retains a conscience.  The bad guys got what they were getting when it came time to punish them.  Solo is the strongest bionic person alive, ten times stronger than any man. He can even lift a 1000 year old tree trunk on his head.  Solo is definitely worth spending money on to rent or buy.   "},{"Title":"Don't take it too seriously.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was an interesting little B film.  Mario van Peebles is a cyborg with a capacity to learn and have independent thoughts.  The film is rather predictable, but on a weekend afternoon when there's nothing to do, it's nice to watch.  This is the kind of thing you can find a lot of problems with if you analyze it, but if you do, you're really being too serious about it. "},{"Title":"It's Not (Rambo) Meets (Robocop), it's Clever New (Frankenstein) !","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An independent action sci-fi (The danger alert !) + Mario Van Peebles (Not my star or even close !) + A story about human android (Terminator-Peter Weller-I'll Be Back kind of crap.. NAAAY !) = The early healthy sleep is surely much better ! Though as funny as it may seem (for me mainly) I liked it very much as dexterous action movie or as good story with a lot of important potentials.(Solo) is the electronic super soldier who got human and became more sensitive than all the senseless war machines around him whom ironically are the original humans! It's Frankenstein again but in Schwarzenegger's kind of shape with the conflict of the little village and its protector one samurai against his crazy makers ! I just want to assure how catchy the elements of the story were, which made me confused about how the big Hollywood majors missed that one ?! I couldn't believe the presence of so many good things since my experience with familiar low budget flicks was horrible. For instance  The script. Actually they could have recreated Frankenstein who takes revenge cruelly on its makers, but on the contrary we've watched the (human/beast) conflict and how (Solo) personifies &#x96; by his muddle newborn humanity &#x96; the noble martyr of this inferno or that greedy degenerate human world. Also how it was wonderful to begin hotly enough with the point of attack when (Solo) the robot uses his own merciful tactic, then we watch his past briefly and smartly after. Moreover the nice touches to affirm his importunate desire to be human (the childish wicked tricks, the joy of the smile, the meaning of sacrifice.. etc), and the idea of another electronic more lethal soldier at the end was unpredictable along with expressing as we watch the ultimate confrontation where the heartless American military commander turned perfectly into that mighty monstrosity against the android where the android looked more high and powerful because of what he already learned from the pure human souls. And although the android triumphed eventually, but the sole (solo) must die at the end as the only one there who is deadly and kind in the same time, so he couldn't live by the deranged logic of this world, yet his death informed about how the human could win the beast humanly ! That final truthful laugh was such a marvelous end which summarized the main victory of (Solo) and the basic tragic sense of the whole thing (maybe that's what Hollywood hated in this story).The direction wasn't that vapid or that Kubrick either. It made fair action despite the non-zillion budget. Then we come to the matter of (Mario Van Peebles); regardless of the ordinary charisma and the quiet career which both didn't serve him much; this actor confirms here how talented he is. His performance grasped the subtle features of Solo's personality even if it seemed so easy to act. This man, as a true actor, gave a lucid effort to show us (Solo), not as another metallic character done by metallic star; he put some simple human sense in the mix to watch carefully how (Solo) the machine feels the pain of not feeling, to experience the confusion of the human games, and to taste his unfortunate mineral laughter (That was his best scene). (Peebles) succeeded in playing (Solo) clemently; by putting slight doleful compassion with strong pride right in his eyes, voice and moves.Maybe I didn't like that stereotyped forever-evil guy; not because its bad conscience, but for its bad construction, where he was so devilish with no convincing reason or whatsoever ! But anyway, (Solo) is solid piece of work that made such a new Frankenstein, mixed it cleverly with the one-man-army action hero, and while presenting the story of the monster; didn't turn into one itself ! "}{"Title":"Solo II","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" We need Solo II!!! Van Peebles is still in pretty good shape! The military can return to the island where Solo has spent many years cultivating a civilization and his knowledge of human behavior, leading him to the conclusion that his deadly nature is necessary to preserve humanity. When the troops arrive, they find that he has developed something else...With the hype and shooting and basically blowing things up, just as in the original, Solo can defeat his nemesis (the out-of-control, robotized Colonel) and return to the mainland. There, he can take on a new nemesis.So, stop playing around and produce it already. I will even provide my services for free. It will be another silver screen block buster! "},{"Title":"Decent action flick; little more","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Solo is an action movie about a Terminator-like android that is constructed and trained for the military. When a flaw is discovered, he is issued to be deprogrammed. Rather than face death, he chooses to flee into the jungles of Central America, where he takes refuge in a village. The military chases him into there, leading into a big action feast.Mario Van Peebles does a decent performance the android. His movements and gestures look mechanical enough to get the job done. Actual scientific realism is abandoned in order to make a good action hero. And it works out; the action scenes aren't that spectacular, but they aren't all too bad either. The acting from the other characters is pretty bad, but I was not expecting anything too good. The special effects were decent as well.Solo is decent as an action flick, but very forgettable. It lacks the substance that most movies possess. But if you just want to pass a couple hours without much thinking, this will get the job done. "},{"Title":"My Brain isn't in my head","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First off- a quote from the filmSolo My brain isn't in my head. It's in here Girl If your brain is in your chest, where is your heart? Solo I don't have one.I'm beginning to become like a dowsing rod for a bad film. Either that or I'm just watching films that come on Channel 5 more often. I kept seeing ads for Solo and just got that feeling that it would be worth watching, as 1) Mario Van Peebles is crap and 2) It was on Channel 5. Van Peebles is a cyborg built by the military to waste folk. Trouble is he's got a design fault that makes him NOT kill people. Doh. So they decide to get rid of him but he picks up the message to suspend the project (how I'm not sure - he just sort of looks up at a wall), so he jumps ship and heads for a South American village, which is naturally being bullied by rebels or drug dealers or something. I'm not to sure what they are, but be assured the village is full of stereotypes for Solo to interact with. The military sends out Sadler to kick Solo's ass, but Sadler is nuts and seems to shoot people just for the sake of it. Meanwhile Solo is teaching the locals how to fight, as being a computer type allows him to translate Spanish, but then the film forgets and everyone just talks English or something. This film is a mish-mash of Robocop, Universal Soldier and Terminator. It's also very very stupid and unintentionally funny. I loved the love interest, even though he's a robot. Or many of the inexplicable moments that are never explained, like how Solo just appears in a pool of water, how he jumps up onto a helicopter, or how connecting himself up to a generator charges him up. There's very little violence until the end, when everyone gets wasted. Sadler gets his back broke and then reappears as a cyborg! The word 'illogical' is overused by Solo in his attempts to be more human, and the scene where he's being taught what a joke his had me cringing. Are Van Damme films as bad as this? If they are, I might give them a go. "},{"Title":"madden vs solo","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the title role of Solo, action-adventure, Mario Van Peebles-- head shaved and his body buffed to the max, pumped hard and getting into shape and the poster really shows off Mario's physique, stomach, abs, chest, biceps, it's all pure steel! One of the manliest scenes on the movie is the fight Van Peebles / William Sadler Colonel Madden to Solo who is holding the Colonel horizontally above his head How's it gonna feel if you kill me? Solo Good question, let's find out. then CRRACCCCKKKTTT ! drops the Colonel on his knee, breaking his spine with a crunch. Colonel roars loud and his sap gloved hands convulse as well as his combat boots in orgasmic agony! "},{"Title":"Okay African-American Android Thriller","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Actor Mario Van Peebles plays a cyborg warrior with a conscience in Blue Tiger director Norberto Barba's new science fiction thriller Solo. This ballistically paced testosterone thriller recycles familiar plot elements from movies such as Universal Soldier (1992), Rambo First Blood, Part II, and the western classic The Magnificent Seven. Although Solo appears initially as little more than a derivative African-American android opus, Barba has cleverly woven some traditional philosophical ideas about appropriate human behavior into this violent melodrama that go beyond its cinematic pyrotechnics.Solo opens aboard a U.S. spy trawler off the coast of an unidentified Latin American country. Army General Clyde Haynes (Barry Corbin of My Science Project) introduces Solo, a $2-billion bionic soldier prototype designed as the ideal military killing machine. According to Haynes, Solo has no feelings and is ultimately disposable. Furthermore, Solo comes equipped with bullet proof skin, infrared vision, and the amazing ability to intercept radio messages during transmission. Despite his formidable arsenal, Solo has been programmed with conflicting commands by its designer, Dr. Bill Stewart (Adrien Brody of Splice) has failed to tweak before the cyborg is sent into battle.Colonel Madden (William Sadler of Die Hard 2 Dead Harder), a battle-seasoned adrenalin junkie, heads up a commando team dispatched to destroy an airfield that rebel guerrillas are constructing. The Americans slip in under the cover of darkness, and Solo plants the explosives to blow up the airfield. While he is setting up the explosives, Solo scans the area with his infrared vision and spots several noncombatants being used as slave labor. Because these civilians may die from the blast, Solo's command directives prevent him from following orders. When the android decides to defuse the explosives, Madden triggers the remaining charges. Explosions and machine-gun fire erupt, and the Americans scramble for their helicopters, deliberately abandoning their robotic warrior. Solo receives a messianic wound low on his left side that fires his power management chip. But that doesn't keep our super-soldier protagonist from grabbing onto one of the choppers as it lifts off.Back aboard the trawler, Stewart removes the damaged chip. He explains to Solo that the android must switch over to back-up power until the chip can be replaced. This make the super-soldier just a little less invincible. Meanwhile, a furious Haynes and a vindictive Madden demand to know why Solo refused to obey orders. Stewart explains that a glitch occurred when Solo tried to resolve a discrepancy in his command menu. Madden wants to shut Solo down, but Haynes decides to salvage their expensive prototype. Solo intercepts the outgoing transmission and learns that Haynes wants him reprogrammed. Solo consults his menu of functions and learn that his prime directive is self-preservation. Before Solo fades to black, our android hero learns that to act selfishly may be logical but is not appropriate human behavior.Solo steals a helicopter and flies off to the mainland. Madden chases him and watches as Solo crashes into a mountain. When Madden sifts through the wreckage, he cannot find a trace of the wily cyborg. Solo managed to survive the crash and has vanished into the bowels of the jungle.. A small boy from the village discovers Solo resting in an underground temple and nearly gets bitten when a snake attacks him. Solo goes on line on the spur of the moments and grabs the snake before its venomous fangs sink into the vulnerable child. Horrified, the lad runs back to his village, but later returns with his father and the rest of the village. When they find the considerably run-down Solo, they believe at first that he is dead. The little boy demands they give him a proper burial. At the church, he bad guy rebels storm in, interrupting the burial ritual, and shoot up the church. Solo springs into action and single-handedly wipes them out. The villagers reveal that the rebels were forcing them under threat of death to clear an airstrip. Solo agrees to teach the farmers how to fight if they will allow him to use parts from an old black and white, portable television to recharge himself. At this point, Peebles emerges as The Magnificent Seven stacked into one. They arrange elaborate traps around the village, and Solo shows them how to use bows and arrows to lethal effect. When the rebels return, the villagers give them a reception that throws them off-balance.Back aboard the trawler, surveillance devices warn them about a battle raging in the jungle. Haynes orders Colonel Madden to lead in an elite unit of hand-picked mercenaries to recover Solo. Madden secretly wants to destroy the prototype. If Solo performs well under fire, Madden fears that similar prototypes may eventually replace career soldiers like him. He believes that his men can kill Solo because the android is not only vulnerable but heavily damaged. Once he reaches the mainland, Madden cuts a deal with the slimy rebels to ice Solo. First, Madden fakes evidence so it appears that Solo has gone crazy and torched the village. The Colonel broadcasts deceptive images of a burning hut back to Haynes aboard the trawler and he swallows the lie. As bait to lure Solo out, Madden persuades Haynes to send in Stewart, who learns too late that Madden duped him. Solo manages to rescue his creator in a way that would make Indiana Jones envious. But Stewart is fatally wounded during the escape. I should never have left college, Stewart laments and hands Solo a rebuilt power chip before he dies. To divulge any other details about the story would undercut the entertainment value of the movie.Solo breaks no new ground for this specific type of character or adventure film, but Narba stages the action well. Most audiences have seen everything that Solo eventually learns, especially if they've kept track of Mr. Spock's progress over the years in the original Star Trek movies. If you enjoy fast-moving, well-crafted actioneers, Solo is worth watching once. "},{"Title":"Are there more like you back in America?","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This little b-grade straight-to-video action joint won't win any awards for it has been done to death, but for what it is&#x85; it made for a passable outing despite the predictable formulaic nature of the story, silly occurrences and mechanical action set-pieces. Solo actually had I thinking of Paul W. S. Anderson's big budgeted Soldier that came out two years later. The two surprisingly had some similarities just that Solo were set in modern times and in the humid jungle terrain, compared to the futuristic backdrop for Soldier which was much more expansive across the board. The basic plot is almost identical. Even a sequence involving a poisonous snake. While the screenplay for Solo, is actually adapted off Robert Mason's novel Weapon and has shades of Universal Soldier. Solo is cyborg that was created to be the perfect killing machine, but it disobeys an order when it meant killing innocent civilians. The army isn't particularly happy with it, so it plans to re-create it. But before doing that Solo escapes in to the South American jungle. There he helps out a small, poor village that are terrorised by rebel soldiers by providing them fighting spirit. But to top that off the Americans want their creation back, so a small elite group is sent in to get him back. Director Norberto Barba's handling for most part is rushed and lacklustre, where by hiding it with jaded editing and its techno special effects. Still it has some gusto in its climatic exchanges, especially in the one that comes from nowhere that sees two androids colliding. Don't try to compute the script either, sometimes sappy in its emotional details but never does it go beyond its comic-book approach. Mario Van Pebbles is surprisingly convincing, embodying that steely approach but also showing cracks of humane qualities (trying to understand the meaning of a bluff/joke and freaking you out with his cackling). Quite old-hat in the character portrayal, but well done. Having fun William Sadler provides the psychotic edge, as an army Colonel who disapproves of the Solo creation and would do anything to see it fail. First rule of dealing with the devil. Don't. Going gawky is Adrien Brody as Solo's creator and Barry Corbin is the General in charge of the project. Soulless, but reliable entertainment.When you hunt a fox, bring your own dogs. "},{"Title":"Brought this for William Sadler","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Got it cheap so didn't waste too much money on it. I brought for one reason only William Sadler, not enougth scenes of him but Spoiler coming up, when William Sadler steps out as new improved Solo, ooh I was impressed, forget the original Solo. (Got it on dvd so tend to fast forward a lot of scenes anyway) William Sadler was more my thing, very sexy scene yes I'm female as you'v proberly guessed.  The story is nothing new but for me I was pleased I got, but I wouldn't have paid full price though.  Van Peeples I'v never heard off before and not my cup of tea. But if you're a William Sadler fan, try and get this cheap if you can. "},{"Title":"Part Man. Part Machine. Total Rip-Off.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are good action stars and there are bad action stars. Arnold Schwarzenegger will always be the best action star in my book. Of course, there really were no action stars before the 1970s -- unless you count adventure heroes, which is something entirely different in its own right.No, action stars are modern inventions of modern Hollywood and their very modernized films. Arnold's got everything an action star needs charisma, talent, gigantic muscles. Mario Van Peebles has...umm...none of the before mentioned.That's not to say he can't...uh...oh, whom am I kidding? The guy sucks. He's annoying, untalented, and his muscles are puny flabs of flesh molded sloppily and with gallons of steroids. Arnold fought his way to the top -- though recent revelations prove he occasionally used small amounts of steroids prior to weight training -- whereas Van Peebles is just following his craft. I don't mean to make Arnold out to be some untouchable superstar, but come on he was a skinny Austrian kid who not only made his way to America, not only crafted the biggest chest ever measured, not only made the transfer from weights to movies, but even became the Governator of CA. That's a pretty amazing resume, folks. And despite recent sexual harassment allegations (some of which I believe are phony and some of which are being exaggerated), Arnold's always been real nice to his fans, on and off the screen. You can just tell that he's a genuinely nice guy. And unlike a lot of Hollywood snobs, he gives back to the community through all types of fundraising for such things as after school programs, inner-city bodybuilding, and so on and so forth. He's been active in the community as a Republican since the first President Bush was in administration. Am I getting carried away with my Arnold praise? What's the point, you ask? The point is that Mario Van Peebles is a twerp.Van Peebles is painful to watch. And not to sound too racist or anything, but I think the only reason he ever got a role in any film is because he's an African-American action star, and there aren't a whole lot in Hollywood at this time. But then again, there are only really three good mainstream action stars Arnie, Bruce, and Sly. I prefer the first two any day but Sly's a lot better than Mr. Van Peebles. (Oh, and for the Van Peebles lover(s) out there, need I remind you that the guy is a bonafide pretentious jerk in real life?)In Solo he milks Frankenstein, The Terminator, RoboCop and Soldier for all they're worth. (And the last film wasn't even all that good.) He plays a cyborg soldier -- the aptly named Solo -- who is created by the US Military in hopes of conceiving the first-ever non-human battle machine unable to feel emotions no pain, no mercy, no sense of a bad script.But when Solo starts showing signs of humanity the military dumps him by accident -- he unfortunately gets left behind on a mission in South America, and is then left to fend for himself amidst the chaos of a band of guerilla soldiers and so on and so forth. Oh, and he meets a little Mexican kid who teaches him the meaning of life. Come on!This film rips off every action movie you can think of. The location of Predator (and a very ripped off Predator Point of View that Solo uses to see his surroundings), the lone premise of The Terminator, the preachings of Terminator 2 (which actually felt real as opposed to this on-the-side sentimental goo-rubbish), the humanity of The Monster from Frankenstein and the metallic Murphy from RoboCop, and so on and so forth. And you know what? It's just plain awful.It's awkward, cheap, ridiculous, silly, and most of all very, very stupid. It's been done before, it'll be done again, but for the record, the next time it's done, I hope it's done better than this. A lot better.0/5 stars. A rating I reserve only for real stinkers.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"The only thing robotic is the acting!","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To take a subject already covered by other films (e.g. Universal Soldier) you'd expect the director to give it a new twist, or in some way improve upon the story.Sadly they failed to do either with this film. The story was all too predictable - ruthless robo-soldier gets a conscience, and protects villagers, Magnificent Seven style against the real baddies (the US military). So the lead character might have had a good physique, but was utterly unconvincing as either an army-bred automaton, or a caring nanny for some Mexican sounding peasants. As for the performances of the puffed-up general and the megalomaniac colonel, they were even more artificial than the so called cyborg they were trying to eliminate. I've seen better acting from a vending machine!At so many points in the film, you stare in disbelief at why on earth the characters would behave or react the way they do if they were trying to portray even a semi-plausible story. The film concludes with the inevitable 'my gun is bigger than your gun' scene, and then thankfully the credits roll. Dismal is too good a description - avoid this one at all costs! "},{"Title":"Great special effects and cool action!","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Solo is strong, stronger than any human.  He's synthetically made to fight special operations in Latin America.  He's created to kill innocent inhabitants, but when this unstoppable juggernaut sees the evils of his creators, Solo resents his manufacturers' orders and abides by the codes of Morality.  Now he wages a war against his own makers.  A great story about one man's (cyborg's) struggle to benefit all that are oppressed.  Mario van Peebles turns in a knockout performance as Solo!  "}{"Title":"A heartwarming film","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Solo is a cyborg who was born with no emotions.  He is ordered to kill Latin American villagers, but killing innocent people makes him feel bad and Solo sees that it's wrong.  Solo then turns from predator to prey as he's chased by enemy cyborgs.  The action scenes are great and special effects are super.  Solo waits in the bushes, gazing and ambushing enemies.  Sometimes Solo gets hurt and has to repair himself.  Solo is a hero we can all cheer for!  A great movie!!  Mario van Peebles is superior as Solo! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the 1996!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Why, you ask it is one of the best movies of 1996?  Why not, it is action packed with Mario Van Peebles playing the awesome role as Solo, the perfect soldier.  The various characters play different essential parts in this movie that make it one of the best movies of the year, despite what others say! "},{"Title":"Laughable","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this film, I didn't know whether to laugh or cry at the ridiculous plot, with bad acting, bad effects etc. it was probabaly worse than the butt ugly operation Delta Force film series!  I really smell a huge rip- off of good films with human/ robotic cyborgs eg. Terminator, Robocop, even the British TV show Red Dwarf. SOLO, aka Mario Van Peebles attempts to create an atmosphere that is spoilt by a commando team searching for SOLO and the scene where he throws the knife with the wire on it is pathetic, especially where he shimmies down the wire on his bare hands without any scratches, comedy, and definitely a bargain bin classic! "},{"Title":"Great Book, awful movie","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Mason's book about was great. It deals with the conflicts of an emerging intelligence and the military sponsors of the research project who want to turn the robot into the ultimate soldier.Unfortunately, this filmed adaptation commits the cardinal sin of movie-making it's boring. The screenplay omits most of the interesting parts of the book and hypes up the jungle action scenes. Mario's wooden acting is probably the best thing about this movie.  "},{"Title":"Buy the book, skip the movie","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, Robert Mason's book WEAPON is among one of my favorites. The movie, however, is a total dud. Wooden acting and slow plotting  make this movie sink faster then the Titanic. This is one of the few movies where I've fallen asleep in the theatre.Did I mention Mario Van Peebles really bad acting?Go find a used copy of WEAPON or SOLO (the sequel) as they're out of print. Be prepared to stay up all night reading.The real puzzle is that no one has made Mason's first novel CHICKENHAWK into a movie. It's great book about his true-life adventures as a Vietnam helicopter pilot. "},{"Title":"Holy Moley!","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When you see Barry Corbin in the cast of a movie, you can never be sure if it will be a classic or trash. Guess which category SOLO falls into. Apparently derived from a popular sci-fi novel, WEAPON, SOLO stars Mario Van Peebles as a human-looking robot who decides to think for himself and is thus targeted for elimination. He hides out in a Mexican village, obviously to save money on locations and extras. Paying in pesos is cheaper than paying in dollars, I suspect. William Sadler is along for the ride, as one of the robots and soldiers sent to destroy Van Peebles. Van Peebles manages to beat them all with ease, of course, while Corbin watches all this with bemusement from afar. The movie is a horrible ripoff of the THE TERMINATOR and CYBORG series, and apparently has little to do with its source material. It is horribly written and acted, and the big fight at the end if downright comical. Van Peebles, a decent actor elsewhere, is a scream as he pretends to be a robot covered in synthetic flesh. He looks like he is doing the Robot Dance most of the time. "},{"Title":"Mind-numbing","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Solo is a poor film - that cannot be ignored. The acting for the most part is very wooden (the only exception is Adrien Brody's performance as Solo's creator Bill) and the story is slight enough that you would probably forget it WHILST you where watching the film. That said, such films are more about the action than the plot/acting and, as such, live or die by the action set pieces - that after all is the point of such films - to give 14 year-olds something to smile at whilst the adults watch films of actual substance. And even on this Solo fails to deliver - what little action there is is poorly done, dull and uninspired. After seeing the trailer for this on television I was hoping for something along the lines of Predator with a robot replacing the Predaot. Instead I got a fairly lifeless action film with a poorly constructed attempt at depth by taking on message that robots can feel too. Watch Terminator II or Predator instead.. both classics that this film desperately wants to be except it lacks the inspiration or, to be fair, the budget. "},{"Title":"Please don't spend money on this rubbish","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this free on TV and I still feel robbed. Mario Van Pebbles takes on a role that suits him - one that requires him to be wooden and slow. The story is so predictable and boring that 2 minutes in you now how it's going to go.  The special effects are poor and the fight scenes have no real excitement.I suppose if you're drunk then it's enjoyable, but really it is a waste of time and will leave you wondering what else you could have watched instead. "},{"Title":"Comical action!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is a load of crap. It's quite disturbing to see that anyone is able to say that this is one of the best films of the year. It doesn't even come close. If this isn't the worst film of the year, then I hope I will never see the one that really is! What can I say? Bad acting, bad action scenes which becomes really comical in the end. Pardon me if this was a comedy, then I didn't understand it.If it was, I regret laughing of the tent scenes! If you'd like a good laugh of some unbelievable hopeless scene, then watch this. But be aware, that the rest of the film will be quite depressive to watch.Do yourself a favor - go to bed instead of watching this! Good night! "},{"Title":"There is only one way to watch this movie without killing yourself.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here's how  Start watching with the volume turned off.  Fast-forward to the first scene showing Mario Van Peebles flex his pretty muscles.  Freeze frame.  When you've seen enough, fast-forward to the next pose.  Freeze frame again.  If you're totally turned on by Mario's looks, you might make it through half an hour of this mess, as long as you don't turn on the sound.  He couldn't possibly be worse if he WERE an android, and suffice it to say there is more clever writing on this movie review message board than in all of the screenplay.  Of course, I'm talking about the thumbs-down reviews -- the people who liked it really scare me. "}{"Title":"Perhaps the worst movie of the 1990s.","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are good movies, there are bad movies, and there are movies you wonder why they were ever made. Solo will make you wonder why they ever invented celluloid. A plot that's completely a chewed-up mishmash of elements from much better movies, characters that achieve the superhuman feat of being cliched AND nonsensical... and it can't even be put in the so bad it's good category as it takes itself so very seriously and is completely devoid of anything inspired to boot. I've seen much better movies in the straight to video category. Remind me to avoid Mario van Peebles like the plague in future.  "},{"Title":"It was not a pleasant experience to see this movie.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't expect much from a movie with Mario VanPeebles, but this was worse than even I could imagine.  I went to Solo expecting a brainless action flick -- I was just hoping to have a night of mindless entertainment.  I couldn't imagine that it was going to be quite so bad, though.  The story (about a cyborg who learns compassion, friendship, blah blah blah) was horrible, and, as another reviewer said, cliched to the max.  Character development was non-existent and we didn't have any vested interest in them. I was hoping the kid who helps Solo discover his humanity would get whacked, so I wouldn't have to deal with his annoyingness any longer. Maybe if they had done this movie tongue-in-cheek it would have worked better; it certainly couldn't have been worse.  As it was, the only thing I took away from Solo was a new disrespect for Mario Van Peebles and a sore butt.  Don't try to endure this movie, and if you have to see it, don't go solo; bring a friend and crack jokes at it for an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of the year.","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cliched story of poor Latin American villagers saved by cyborg with a heart. Pathetic. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't hyped at all so you couldn't expect too much but I was pleased with the movie. It had pretty good action scenes and a decent story line. I thought Mario did a pretty good job in the movie and overall it was just enjoyable, not the greatest action movie but not the worst by any means, if you just enjoy simple action and explosions check this out. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"NEVER SEE THIS MOVIE","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i was forced to watch this garbage. I had control of the remote, yet my friends would bitch and moan if i changed this movie which makes Gigli look good. this is so bad and mario van peebles continues his marginal talent on and on.....So in closing, never see this movie...0/10 "},{"Title":"One of The Worst Movie Ever","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Even the fact that I saw this movie at a free sneak review doesn't make up for the hour plus that I lost watching this horrible dreck of a movie. Mario van Peebles had a movie to remember in New Jack city, and he has a movie to forget in Solo. Where do I start? The plot is horrendous, the action is silly, the acting is campy, and the whole movie adds up to such a bad experience that it isn't even worth renting, much less buying or watching it on cable. Any cable station that shows this movie ought to give the viewers discounts on their cable bill. Definitely a contender for worst movie ever made. Definitely the worst movie of anyone who acted, wrote, produced, directed, or did FX for it.  "},{"Title":"haha","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was told about this film from a friend who saw it late night during the week He told me it was so bad that I had to see it! So I went on an auction site and bought the film. This is probably the worst film I have EVER seen. It makes you laugh when it really shouldn't. Terrible acting and terrible storyline. Plus he looks nothing like Michael Jackson?!I still recommend buying this film as its one of the funniest things you will ever see. Van Peebles is a joke in this film.Robots cant bluff... PSYCHE!I have to say though the special effects are actually amazing... PSYCHE! DVDs were probably even out when this film came out but if I had my way it would be a straight to VHS release yes people it is THAT bad! "},{"Title":"Really bad sci-fi action flick.","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Solo starts as a team of US soldiers go into Soth America to blow up a rebel airstrip, joining them is a robot named Solo (Mario Van Peebles) who can use any weapon ever made, is fifteen times stronger & ten times faster than any human being. Something goes wrong though & Solo refuses to kill innocent civilians which Colonel Frank Madden (William Sadler) isn't happy about, back at base & General Haynes (Barry Corbin) orders Solo to be shut down & reprogrammed. One of Solo's main directives is self preservation so decides to escape back into the South American jungles where Colonel Madden & his men are sent in to recapture it...This Mexican American co-production was directed by Norberto Barba & one has to say Solo is awful. The script by David Corley was based on the novel 'Weapon' by Robert Mason & is one cliché after another, robots were popular at the time Solo was made in Hollywood & at the box-office so Solo rip-offs the likes of Robocop (1987), Universal Soldier (1992) & the two Terminator flicks as well as having the same setting & basic story as Predator (1987). This is the usual rubbish about an emotionless robot who grows a sense of humanity while being around people, at first he doesn't know what a joke is or why one person would care for another but by the end he develops emotions & starts to befriend people, sounds like Terminator 2 Judgment Day (1991) to me. The character's are poor & Colonel Madden in particular is given absolutely no motivation for hating Solo at all & why he would kill other US soldiers & disobey orders to destroy it. You know I saw this on cable telly last night for free (thank god I didn't spend any money on it) & I looked it up in the TV guide & do you know what it said? My TV guide described Solo as a 'dire sci-fi action starring Mario Van Peebels' which when I think about it is a perfect description of Solo. In less than ten words my TV guide has hit the nail on the head, I mean it's a sci-fi action film, it certainly stars Mario Van Peebles & it's definitely dire. Enough said really.Director Barba doesn't do anything particularly special here & the action scenes lack any real excitement & the sci-fi elements are virtually none existent apart from the fact Solo is a robot. So the military lose Solo & Colonel Madden is sent in to recapture it right? I'm not being funny but wouldn't the military have put a 'self destruct' mechanism inside Solo in case something like that happened? Surely at the very least Solo would have had a tracking device inside it so the military would at least know where it was at any given time? I'm not being funny but these people can come up with a walking talking robotic soldier but they are not clever enough to realise that a tracking or self destruct device might be useful if anything went wrong? The violence is mild, there are a few OK fight scenes but this is pretty weak stuff really.Technically the film looks alright & is competently made, it was actually shot in Mexico. The makers of the Dolph Lundgren action flick Agent Red (2000) edited footage from Solo into that film. The acting is poor, Van Peebles was the perfect choice to play an emotionless robot... William Sadler deserves better than this, it was only a few years prior he was staring in the fantastic Die Hard 2 Die Harder (1990).Solo is a really bad sci-fi action flick which is basically a huge rip-off of big budget Hollywood sci-fi action films like Robocop, Universal Soldier & the Terminator films. Not recommend & I'm going to start & pay more attention to my TV guide when it comes to choosing films to watch... "},{"Title":"If You Like Crap, Watch it TWICE!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Although the robot has Terminator-like vision, the filmmakers do not.Mario Van Peebles is a robot. The robot escaped from the military facility that constructed it a la Short Circuit. The robot booby-traps a village a la Home Alone. The robot also wishes to look like Michael Jordan.After 80 minutes, the robot learns a valuable lesson about the preciousness of human life which enables him to force monotone laughter through his mechanical voice box. (I gave it a five because it's THAT absurd)These are not exaggerations.This is what you're in for. "},{"Title":"Not even good enough to rate as a 'B' film.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had the dubious opportunity to view this movie on TV. It's the perfect example of how to take a terrible script and turn it into one of the worst films ever made.  Not only is the acting bad and the effects terrible, the movie has more logical holes than ten pounds of imported swiss cheese.I would highly recommend this film as an example of how NOT to make a movie and what director not to use in one of yours.I turned off the TV during the last ten hideous minutes of the show. Calling it pathetic is a gross understatement.  "}{"Title":"R.O.T.O.R on a B.level budget.","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mario Van Peebles tries to go the Jean-Claude Van Damme route and play a renegade robotic soldier who goes AWOL to preserve himself, however the government isn't going to take this lying down, so among the simplistic plot Van Peebles protects villagers from the rebel forces and defeats a improved version of himself in this disappointing film. This blatant rip off of Universal Soldier (Which is far more fun then this) simply goes nowhere. The main problem is that the movie is so unbelievably inert. Van Peebles just waits around and there just isn't enough ass-kicking to justify a viewing. On the other hand the movie does sort of resemble a competent version of R.O.T.O.R although where as that abysmal bad movie was hilarious, this one only yields occasional laughter in its laughably unconvincing action sequences. Also like R.O.T.O.R it makes no sense in its narrative and basically the movie is awesomely boring. Plus the villains are disappointingly weak and basically the movie needs an actual action scenario to work, because the material is too dull. In all regards Solo is a very weak film.*1/2 out of 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"GREAT FILM","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You know I only watched 15 minutes of this film, so I can't really describe how great it is. I mean the concept alone is so original and intriguing it just did not let me go. Then there is the mass of academy award winning people involved here plus the academy award nominated director. YOU JUST CAN'T miss. I mean imagine it is the middle of the night and you're not sleepy yet. This film comes on. You watch it and are shocked. It is so brilliant, so original it is so GREAT. It will feel to you that half an hour later you've turned off the screen, but as you go to your bed you see it's only 15 minutes after midnight. ENJOY!!!3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"it stinks","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't have much high hopes for this one. Before seeing it, the story yelled stereotype at me.I mean... come on! It's so stupid the plot line about the innocent android that realizes that the people who created him are immoral, then decides to change everything.I had to see it three times. The first two times I fell asleep because I was so incredibly bored by it. It's very rare that movies bore me so much I fall asleep during them. The third time I forced myself to watch it, simply to be able to warn people about it.I got the distinct impression that the people responsible for this mess had tried to take all the cool/neat things from other scifi/action movies, and put them together to make a kick-ass movie! They took the android/robot, lots of action, thin story, stereotype characters, and a big fight in the end and threw it together. Unfortunately, the movie sucks. The acting is so wooden you could build a house out of it, the storyline/plot is absolutely laughable, the camerawork and editing is horrid, the direction is non-existent, and to top it all off, everything is so cliche and ridiculous that it just annoys the hell out of you.I was left with the feeling that I could've spent the time watching this one doing something much more creative, like trimming my fingernails, or watching the grass grow. "}]