[{"Title":"A viewing pleasure","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every time this is on TV, I stop and watch it, with absolute fascination. Do I play or even like golf? Hell, no. Do I care about any sports? Hell, no. Well, except for pro wrestling, and I barely watch that anymore as I sink into old age. What fascinates me about TIN CUP is the delirious story and the colorful characters. Costner, not one of my favorite actors normally, is simply brilliant as a down-on-his-luck golf pro and Rene Russo is absolutely striking as his newfound love interest and salvation. This is one of Russo's greatest roles, in fact. In addition, there are two terrific supporting roles, with Don Johnson as Costner's archnemesis and a real cad (which I suspect is how he is in real life) and Cheech Marin as Costner's stalwart companion and partner in tomfoolery. In fact, Costner and Marin are essentially Don Quixote and Sancho Panza, but instead of tilting at windmills they tilt at golf holes here. You definitely don't have to like golf to enjoy this movie, slick and formulaic as it may be. And seeing Johnson and Costner going nose to nose may give you the same frisson as seeing Travolta and Willis standing elbow to elbow in PULP FICTION. Two truly big names that you never expected to see together in one movie. Say what you want about both Costner and Johnson (talk about lives lived to excess), but they are both terrific in this tidy little romantic dramedy. This not a kiddie movie. It is a movie for adults who have lived real lives and can relate to adult characters who have had their share of ups and downs and can still dream.  "},{"Title":"Costner's best movie? Maybe","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From an acting standpoint, Tin Cup may be Kevin Costner's best movie. Here he plays Roy McAvoy, a burned-out, washed-out, down-n-out golf pro a way out in West Texas. He's broke, drunk most of the time, and convinced of his own worthlessness -- hence his attraction to poetry and a puffed-up opinion of his own heroics on the golf course (he's got to have something hold on to). Roy is just this side of being a complete bum -- this is one of the few movies I've seen on any subject that actually addresses the financial condition of its loose-living hero.Tin Cup is all about the dire straits of this character, and Costner is more than up to the challenge of playing this guy convincingly. Costner for once packs everything into his performance charm, wit, sarcasm, hopelessness, bitterness, and more than a little arrogance. He is funny, laidback and shows remarkable athletic skill. He tops his career-best work in Bull Durham here (not surprising, since this is another Ron Shelton film).The movie also works great as a classic heroic Quest story. McAvoy is on a mythic quest, not for the perfect 18 holes, certainly not for money, but for love. Tin Cup could easily have been titled Quixote Jousts at Windmills in West Texas. Best of all, McAvoy KNOWS he's on a quest; when he refers to it in his dialogue, it sounds pathtically funny, but when you hold this story up to the ancient pattern of the heroic quest as described by Joseph Campbell, it really rings true.Probably the most interesting aspect of Tin Cup is that it also works as a metaphor for what Costner has done with his career. Here's a guy who could have played it safe and easy after all those Oscars, but took off on crazy flights of fancy like Waterworld and lost badly. (He continued to play unsafe shots after 1996, with almost every movie that followed this one.) McAvoy plays the game his way, on a dare, on a bet, with outrageous egotism and a willingness to lose it all -- publicly. That's what Costner has done at his own game. Was Open Range the dreaded safe shot that corrected his course? "},{"Title":"Just an awesome film","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If somebody watches Tin Cup and does not find this movie a must-see, it might be either because you don't know golf, or because you take life too easy. This film is nothing but irresistible. It combines those tiny-little-moments that we golfers must face every time we are in the golf course (yes, we may not be facing the US Open title, but golf gives us a chance to know ourselves every time we hit the ball Do I play safe or do I take chances? Am I a winner, or am I a loser? Do I have nerves, or do I simply breakdown?). Tin Cup goes insight all of that, and it shows it to us, in such a simple form through the eyes and life of Roy McAvoy and his buddies, that at the end you find yourself with nothing but the urge to rent it again. Forget for a while about the romance and the girl, if so you want, but don't deny that the songs, the views, and the dialogue are superb. See it as a great sport movie, with a clear lesson to all of us In life as in Golf, it is you who make that final call. A good call means success; a bad one, well I guess you know where the rest goes. "},{"Title":"Very Funny, Costner at his best.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Costner (Dances with Wolves, The Untouchables) is a great actor, in my opinion, but most critics and some people don't like him because he takes too many hero roles.  For those people, Tin Cup is a movie you will like, for those who like Costner, you will love this film.  Cosnter plays a local star golfer in Texas who runs a driving range that isn't doing well.  He's a good golfer, but because of some poor decisions never turned professional.  He has a lazy life goofing around with his friends and caddy, wonderfully played by Cheech Marin (Paulie, From Dusk Til Dawn).  One day when a beautiful psychiatrist, played by Rene Russo (Ransom, Major League), comes in to take lessons from him, he decides to go after her.  The problem is that she isn't grungy and lazy like he is and she's dating a professional golfer who went to college with Costner.  He is well-played by Don Johnson (Dead Bang, Guilty as Sin).  Costner and Johnson hate each other and soon get into competitions to impress Russo.  Eventually, Costner decides to impress her he'll try and qualify for the US Open golf tournament.  This is a very funny film and was not a chick-flick like I was worried it would be.  Costner is excellent in the lead playing a completely likable slob. Russo is solid as his love interest.  Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Scores high (or low? this is a golf movie after all)","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some actors are born to play a certain type of character. A youthful Tom Cruise was the archetypal wise-cracking upstart with aspirations for future greatness; Mark Ruffalo (of Collateral fame) has mastered the 'just got out of bed' role; and any wife played by Joan Allen is both sexually and spiritually unfulfilled. However there is no one who plays the laconic ageing sports pro better than Kevin Costner. Tin Cup sees Costner at his absolute best, embodying the everyman charm that won him so many fans in 'Field of Dreams' and 'Bull Durham', yet exceeding these performances with a depth and sense of impending fallibility that engages the audience to the extent that we hit every long iron and read every putt of Roy McAvoy's long journey into golfing legend.Costner's McAvoy is introduced as a washed up Texan driving range pro, a once prodigious college golfer whose talent was unquestionable, but who was hamstrung by an explosive temperament. Its not until be begins to teach psychiatrist Molly Griswold (Rene Russo), and has a reunion with college rival David Sims (Don Johnson) that his competitive flame is reignited, and he seeks to qualify for the US Open prove his obvious brilliance to both himself and to the watching world. This wouldn't be Costner if he didn't have half an eye on Russo's character as well, and the two plots are interwoven to excellent effect.I love the golfing action in the movie. While some of the shot making from McAvoy is simply farcical (if anyone's ever got backspin on a 250 yard 3 wood i'd love to hear from you - I trust my inbox will remain vacant), director Shelton racks up the tension, especially on the back nine stretch of the US Open, which inevitably sees McAvoy paired with Sims in a race for the trophy. Costner actually lowered his handicap to single figures whilst shooting the movie, so the action has an air of authenticity to it, especially considering the cameos of well known US Tour pros such as Phil Mickelson, Corey Pavin and Craig Stadler. The familiar voice of legendary commentator Gary McCord adds to the feeling that the proceedings are not that divorced from reality. Ben Curtis (an unknown) won the Open Championship in 2003 - his first tournament win.The supporting cast is excellent. This was Johnson's last major film for a long time, yet it is textured valedictory performance, and Russo adds radiance with her subtle beauty. Cheech Marin threatens to steal the show as McAvoy's world-weary caddy, yet Costner is the big star here. I was delighted with the film's conclusion, an overt rebellion against sporting conformity.As a film in this genre, Tin Cup is a brilliant success. Costner has since gone on to bigger and worser things yet signs of a return to form are promising, his new baseball movie The Upside of Anger (in which, naturally, he plays an ageing pro) is released in March 2005. While not everything about the film is good (a little less mawkishness wouldn't go amiss in the romance scenes, combined with as little of Linda Hart as is humanly possible), Costner is on top form, and even if you don't like golf there is enough here for anyone to enjoy. Highly recommended.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Second","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While it may never be as famous as its forerunner Bull Durham (which also starred Costner and was also written and directed by Shelton) Tin Cup has legs of its own to stand on. With a brilliant soundtrack, excellent support from Russo, Johnson, Marin and others (including two Costners) and the writing and direction of Ron Shelton, this is a winner - an incredibly funny and gripping comedy with a smashing bit of irresistible bravado thrown in for good measure. Where Bull Durham didn't have a climax per se, Tin Cup does - and what a climax that is. And although you may in retrospect see the outcome as predictable, odds are you won't guess this by a mile working into it the first time the suspense really works too.For what it's worth, the riddle the movie starts on has been traced as far back as The Cosby Show.A definite keeper. "},{"Title":"I have seen this film 20 times, and it only get´s better...","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, this is a golf film. A great golf film. The best golf film. But there is more to it than just being a golf film. It´s the classic tale of a washed-up hero wanting to get the girl. But Kevin Costner gives this role something more. Okay, it´s not an oscar-winning role, but the performance sure as heck should be.And it´s nice to see a golf film with a screenwriter who actually seems to know what the game really is about. For those who are not into golf, just look at Mr. Costner´s every move and how he delivers his lines as a drunken golf pro. In fact the whole cast is excellent. In comparison to films like Bagger Vance, Happy Gilmore and Caddyshack this film is the only one that explains why we men are so hooked on this game. If you see this movie more than five times, the music might start to get on your nerves. But it´s okay, it´s impossible to add music to a golf film, because the sport itself is so timeless and silent. "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Talented but unlucky golfer, Roy McAvoy (Kevin Costner) pursues glamorous therapist, Dr Molly Griswold (Rene Russo). Even though it's a Costner movie, it's actually a decent, surprisingly well-observed romantic comedyThe American Dream is brought nicely down to earth in this gentle comedy drama. Costner plays Roy McAvoy, an underachieving golf-whizz living in a small Texan town, who falls for Molly (Russo), the girlfriend of his arch rival David Simms (Don Johnson). Luckily for him, she agrees to sleep with him after he chips a ball from the clubhouse carpet and hits a pelican sitting outside. Molly gives Roy a good soul-searching pep talk and it isn't long before he's back playing professionally - and, before you know it, swinging his sticks in the US Open. Tin Cup's big surprise is the film's unconventional ending, allowing us to forgive director Ron Shelton's clumsy, problematic dramatic structure and odd fascination with capturing Costner's highlighted mullet.The dialogue and characters are convincing and intelligently developed. Russo wears vulnerability and neediness like a second skin, while Costner plays the tragic hero with considerable charm.  "},{"Title":"Shelton plays golf.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The game of golf never looked so exciting until Shelton came up with this little gem about a stubborn golfer and his peculiar approach to the game. Costner really works under Shelton's direction and snappy dialogue. The romance with Russo does not ring true but you somehow overlook it because of the convincing performances. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, especially for a movie that revolves around golf, the most boring sport on the planet (followed closely by fishing, which is barely a sport but at least is fun while you're doing it, however","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Costner plays Roy McAvoy, and ex-golf pro who runs a driving range in the middle of nowhere (520 miles from anything, to be exact). The film opens with a horrible song, which is followed by a goofy country soundtrack that was, unfortunately, written for the movie. Why is it that music that was written specifically for a movie is never any good? There are exceptions, of course, but none of them can be found in Tin Cup. However, despite the sub-par soundtrack (no pun intended), this is a surprisingly satisfying film. (spoilers) It's not about the game in Tin Cup, which is good, because that would have ruined the movie. There is a delightfully rich relationship between Roy and Molly Griswold (Renee Russo), who is in an unhappy relationship and becomes the love interest for Roy in the film. Molly has problems of her own that parallel Roy's own struggle with his life as well as his golf swing. She is a psychologist, but she gets hurt a lot. She can always tell when people are lying to themselves, but can't seem to tell when people are lying to her. Roy spends the majority of the film trying to get her to leave an unworthy boyfriend who, of course, turns out to be a total dick, and continually makes awkward advances of his own. Many of his amorous advances resemble something confused and totally wrong that you might expect from someone like Travis Bickle from Taxi Driver. Roy just doesn't understand women, and Molly doesn't seem to know what she wants in a man.Cheech Marin rounds out the cast in a fairly serious role that strongly contradicts his traditional roles, and he pulls it off surprisingly well. He is Roy's close friend and ultimately his caddy in the U.S. Open, in which Roy plays as sort of the thinking man's Happy Gilmore. It seems that his infatuation with Molly has caused him to lose much of his skill (`the shanks,' I believe it was called), and he tries just about everything to get his swing back. He uses all of those ridiculous infomercial devices that he made fun of Molly for using earlier in the film, and even attempts some witch doctor-like stuff, like getting drunk and playing hung over. Oops.There is very heavy emphasis on the meaning of the golf in the movie, rather than the golf itself. It is made clear in many different scenes that winning or losing or even playing golf are not the things that should be focused on when watching this movie. It is the way that golf is used as a metaphor for life that is important. There is a part in the movie where Roy breaks a golf record, but he still gets no respect afterward, because he had yet to change as a person. Merely beating a record because you took less shots is meaningless &#150; what's important is what you learn or how you change as a result. Even more importantly, near then end of the film, Roy takes shot after shot at the final hole, dropping all after ball into the lake, but he keeps taking the shot, rather than attempting to make it to the green safely with more than one shot. When he keeps telling Cheech to give him another ball, it becomes very clear that winning the tournament has become secondary to him. He has set a goal for himself, and even though he knows that it will cost him the tournament, he still seeks that goal. Notice how when he finally does make that shot, he is way above par, but he still gets a huge response from the crowd. Tin Cup has a sort of Rocky-style ending, in which Roy loses the tournament, but he still wins his conflict with himself. Besides that, the movie doesn't leave us with the feeling that we are seeing a temporary high point that will likely be followed someday with the same troubles that were overcome in the film, which is something that even great movies like As Good As It Gets are guilty of. Roy has not made the most tremendous achievement possible, because he did lose the tournament, but he has also managed to qualify for the U.S. Open tournament for the following year. He lost the golf game, but he has made a significant accomplishment in his life that is especially clear when you compare his character from the beginning of the film to that at the end of the film. Character development is one of the most important things about meaningful film, and it is one of the strong points in Tin Cup. Don't watch it for the golf, watch it for the well-written script, the great acting, and most importantly, for the valuable lesson that can be learned from it as a perspective on life.  "}{"Title":"Sports and romance clichés get smothered by the Costner-Shelton swagger","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Underdog sports movies walk a fine line with clichés; romantic comedies walk a fine line with clichés. Tin Cup is both these things and walks the finest of the fine lines, and though it leans toward the cliché, it never completely loses its balance. Its likable swagger behind star Kevin Costner -- a similar swagger to that of Bull Durham, also directed by Ron Shelton -- is what makes it one of the more memorable fault-filled sports movies.Like the previous (and slightly better) Costner-Shelton collaboration of Durham, this film is a romantic sports comedy about a trashy/washed-up athlete who wastes a lot of talent and somehow manages to attract sexual attention.Costner stars as West Texan Roy McAvoy, referred to sometimes as 'Tin Cup,' a talented college golfer who somehow ended up a golf pro at a downtrodden driving range with his amigo Romeo (Cheech Marin) while his college teammate David Simms (Don Johnson) went on to be a star. Roy is a betting man who goes with his gut, ignores reason and uses golf metaphors to make sense of life. When an anal retentive psychiatrist named Molly (Rene Russo) shows up at his range for lessons, Roy is smitten, only to find she's with Simms. Of course the only way to win her over is to try and make the U.S. Open, right?Costner and Russo have forced character chemistry. There's no reason for either of them to be interested in each other, save that Roy wants a challenge compared to the white trash women he's interested in. There's certainly no reason for Molly to leave her tournament- winning boyfriend for a sleazeball. And you know it's true when the dialogue directly addresses why they fell for the other like it's justification or something.The machismo fueling Roy and his buddies in the movie, constantly betting each other and insulting the other when he lays up and plays it safe is childish, but it brings the film its humor and keeps it from being a straight through underdog movie. Its more interested in its characters than building up plot suspense, which is a good thing, if only the characters behaved in realistic ways.Tin Cup is a giant golf metaphor for life, about how taking risks -- no matter how many times you fail -- is always worth it. Shelton's film is gutsy in the same way, finding different ways of telling a sports story that will make it feel different. It goes about it in an amateur way, but it's the bravado that it will be remembered for. Shelton's films have this miraculous tendency to only let their best parts stick with you. They're the kinds of movies that make for great channel-surfing finds on TV. That's really what Tin Cup is.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A little gem","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I could care less about golf, but that doesn't matter - golf is just the hook upon which this movie is hung.I'm not always a fan of Kevin Costner, but when they do a retrospective of his work, this will be among his 10 best.This story of one man and his unusually fixated approach to certain matters is actually a fairly slight affair, but it has some fun performances running through it, and it is bookended by two wonderful, wonderful sequences.The first, near the start, is when Costner's has-been golf pro delivers a beautifully elegiac speech about the aesthetics of golf to Renee Russo. As someone who isn't a sports fan, that hooked me right at the start (my metaphor here is fishing, not golf).And the fabulous ending, true to the character and not to Hollywood expectations, is something to be treasured.This film is a little bit special. "},{"Title":"Very different","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tin Cup is a unique experience, in that after viewing this movie, you won't automatically compare it to any other film ... there isn't another one like it.It wrote in another review that all sports films contains many clichés. Well, I have to contradict myself in describing this film about golf. It starts many clichés, and then breaks them in half, sometimes literally! LOL Funny, charming, romantic, and defiant, Tin Cup gives you a bit of everything ... even a realistic ending but with a crumb thrown to the future at the same time.And the phrase Tin Cup made its way into sports talk for an event where a golfer REALLY screws up on a hole, especially if from stubbornness. "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner not being Kevin Costner","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is perhaps my most watched movie that I don't own. Every time it's on TV, it seems to find my TV screen... even if I'm not looking for it. But even after multitudes of viewings, something struck me after watching it again tonight... what a GREAT job Kevin Costner did in this role! And WHY do I say that? Because this is one of his few films where I didn't realize I was watching Kevin Costner! Usually, he plays a role that's too big for him to chew... and you painfully watch him try to make something of it, all the while your conscience says, I'm watching a Kevin Costner flick... this is painful.BUT NOT WITH TIN CUP. I actually found myself 2/3 through the movie quizzing myself on who the actor was... I could swear I've seen him somewhere before...Keven Costner totally loses himself in this role... so much so that he wonderfully loses his identity as Kevin Costner. "},{"Title":"Perhaps one of the best golf films of all time.","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is every amateur golfer dream.The best serious golf movie in my mind. As far as comedy golf films, Happy Gilmore and Caddyshack were fun, but Tin Cup played out the dream of contending at the US Open and letting it all hang out! I personally am not a huge Kevin Costner fan, however having said that a number of his films seem to be on my top ten list of favourite films. Untouchables, Tip Cup, Field of Dreams are all awesome films. I gotta say I do respect him. He chooses his films well.Personally I like the ending of the film. A man facing his demons and confronting them head on, even with all odds being against him. I loved this film. "},{"Title":"How can the naysayers say nay?!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *** SPOILERS ***OK, I've been reading some of the negative comments on here, and a couple seem to stick out.One person says how they hate Kevin Costner and how they hate golf, and they hated this movie.  Um, duh?!  If you hate Kevin Costner and golf, don't watch a movie with Kevin Costner in it that's about golf!!!Someone else mentioned how they felt it was predictable ... he gets the girl and wins the tournament ... um, if you actually watched the movie, you'd notice he _doesn't_ win the tournament!I personally loved this film - the best thing Kevin Costner has done in years, an excellent showcase for Rene Russo and Cheech Marin, and a nice turn by Don Johnson.  A hilarious script and just the most gorgeous greens you've ever seen.  Superb. "},{"Title":"Hole In One!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is fun.  This movie is funny.  It has the best of casts.  The golf, even if you don't understand golf (and I don't) is great.  The music is perfect for it.  The ending isn't what you'd expect.  This movie is a 10 plus all the way.  The best part about it?  Kevin Costner totally.  Along with Cheech Marin, they make a great comedic team.  Wish they'd team up again. Rent it and have a good time. "},{"Title":"Costner Does Golf.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tin Cup (1996) Dir Ron Shelton / Cast Kevin Costner, Rene Russo, Don Johnson, Richard Cheech Marin, Linda Hart Kevin Costner plays golf pro Roy Tin Cup McAvoy who attempts to impress a psychiatrist but she is dating a competitor whom he dislikes and to make things worse he is offered a caddying job. Director Ron Shelton does a decent job at detailing the relationships. He previously directed Costner in Bull Durham as well as direct White Men Can't Jump and Blaze. Costner demonstrates an individual who longs for greatness again in both golf and relationships and eventually he must prove himself at both. Rene Russo is well cast as the psychiatrist who comes to realize that Costner really doesn't need therapy. Her role a more predictable but she plays it with intelligence and wit. Richard Cheech Marin provides humour as Costner's loyal caddy who has seen the ups and downs in McAvoy's career. Don Johnson plays the opposing golfer who abuses his authority and takes pride in the thought of humbling McAvoy and winning the hand of Ruso at the same time. Outside the principal actors, other roles are cardboard. The ending is a triumph because it avoids the expected and swerves further clichés as well as push its hero to the brinks even when spectators feel it's pointless to do so. Great theme regarding achievement and the longing for the spotlight. Score 8 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was deeply impressed. It's the best golf film yet, but there is more to it than just golf. It's definitely not the thing to see if you're in the mood for something fun and uplifting, or something with tons of thrills and action. The metaphors in this movie are abundant. Are there annoying things in this movie? Yes, like the overdone dialog. But the movie has enough to keep you entertained. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. This is the kind of film that tries to prove that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. Overall rating 7/10. "},{"Title":"Charming characters and a fun rom-com","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Roy 'Tin cup' McAvoy (Kevin Costner) is a washed up golf pro living at his run down driving range with his sidekick caddy Romeo (Cheech Marin) in desolate west Texas shooting the breeze with the boys. Then psychiatrist Dr. Molly Griswold (Rene Russo) shows up needing a lesson. It turns out that she's the girlfriend of Roy's slick former University of Houston teammate now golfing star David Simms (Don Johnson). Simms invites McAvoy to his tournament, not to play but to caddy. Then a bet develops with the players that Roy could make a shot on National TV and Simms fires him. He owes Doreen $12k and gives her the deed to his driving range. He even loses his car to Simm in a bet. Roy decides to qualify for the US Open and be Molly's patient.This movie works so well. The trio have so much chemistry that they have an unbeatable charm in this movie. It's partly due to writer/director Ron Shelton, but it has so much due to his reunion with Costner. Like Bull Durham, it is about the characters as much as it is about the game. It is adorable when Roy confesses his love to Molly in their session. It is just a very well made rom-com with great characters with a great golf ending. "}{"Title":"Nice Romantic Comedy - And Good Golf Movie","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you're in the mood for a light comedy with romantic overtones with some delightful performances by some very good actors (including the great Cheech Marin - who is absolutely winning here), then don't hesitate to watch this on a rainy night with your lover or spouse. This is a feel-good movie and has enough of a story line - one that rings true for many PGA golfer wannabes by the way - to provide a joy ride that's fun and worthwhile. One of the most memorable scenes, in fact, was torn from the pages of the life of former pro golfer Gary McCord (who's now a fine golf tournament announcer - and who makes a cameo in this movie by the way). You'll know it when you get there. It's the scene where you'll say, I can't believe he's doing that! But believe it. It actually happened. And Gary did it (look it up)!Because of the romance, this is almost a chick flick - were it not for the golf underpinnings. So it'll please both sexes (and possibly lead to romance afterward, for putting you in the mood - if that's what you desire, as some do from romantic comedies after all). Plus, to me, it's Cheech's best and most endearing real-acting movie role after his halcyon days with Tommy Chong. I say real-acting movie role because he's not going for the laughs here. He's funny - but he's also a real person (the kind you'd want as your best friend), and he plays it beautifully. "},{"Title":"Tin Cup Makes Golf Entertaining","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tin Cup is a romantic comedy that is co-written and directed by Ron Shelton. It stars Kevin Costner and Rene Russo together with Cheech Marin and Don Johnson in major supporting roles.This quirky love story is about a washed-up golf pro Roy Tin Cup McAvoy, who has the singular misfortune of falling in love with the girlfriend of his arch rival. Although he is inspired to re-ignite his golf career, challenge his opponent in the U.S. Open, and win the affection of the woman of his dreams, McAvoy has just one flaw he's a show off when he should just focus on playing the game. Amiable and constantly amusing rather than uproarious, this mangy tale of a never-do-well's fitful assault on personal and professional respectability benefits greatly from Kevin Costner's ingratiatingly comic star turn.Overall,it accomplishes the impossible, maybe the unimaginable which is it makes golf entertaining. "},{"Title":"Actual event was basis for this movie","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" During the US Open this year they accosted Gary McCord as being the story for the movie. He actually took an 18 in a PGA event trying to get over the water. He admitted to it!! He said he just knew he could get it over the water.He had no excuses.This is tough with the rules of ten lines. I actually liked the movie. Odd as I think Costner is over rated. He plays the same part in every movie. I only like Tin Cup and Water world. He has no stretch in his acting. Same character in every movie with different things happening. He has no range in his acting ability. Hopefully this is ten lines...... "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yeah - absolutely love this film - and I'm not even a golfer! I just love Costner's performance - one of the most likable I've seem him do - and, of course, Rene Russo is just gorgeous - not just a looker, but her personality in this - touch of the Katherine Hepburn's in Bringing Up Baby mode.It's just so lovely - it swings along to great music - and the rivalry with Don Johnson (why has he never been bigger?), is great.OK, all the buddies back at Roy's base don't add much, except as a chorus, and a foil for Roy (Costner) - but, really - this is such a sweet film. Who could dislike it? Anyone who does, has got a hard heart. Sure, it's just swinging romantic froth - but don't we all need a little of that in our lives? "},{"Title":"I Just Love This Movie","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this movie several times and every time it gets cuter. As soon as it starts, when the first few bars of the song begins I recognize it immediately. Keven Costner is adorable and this movie also a reason I became a great admirer of Renee Russo (who at first didn't particularly care for her, but has become one of my favorite actresses). Not exactly the most intelligent or timeless movie, but very entertaining and a joy to watch. The end gets me every time. I don't know if it's just me, but I actually get all involved and emotional. (Every time I see that scene at the river, it reminds of how irresistibly gorgeous Kevin Costner is. Kevin you are so wonderful, manly and sexy.) "},{"Title":"A highly entertaining Golf film, that's funny and very well acted it's only flaw is the over length! *Contains spoilers!*","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tin Cup is a highly entertaining Golf film, Kevin Costner and Rene Russo were absolutely dynamite together, I was really quite surprised by how good this film was!. The ending too me was Funny I mean sure He didn't win the US.Open but really nobody will be talking bout David Simm's(Johnson) victory they will be talking bout that huge shot Roy(Costner) made instead so to me it was quite satisfying. There are tons of great funny bits especially by Costner and Russo the two just clicked Majorily . The golf action was actually pretty exciting, and I'm not that big a golf fan really myself, but I really enjoyed it and Don Johnson is great as the prick you will hate him, plus Cheech Maran was actually quite funny as the Caddy. One of my favorite moments is when Rene bets Kevin can hit the golf ball into the river and scare off the pigeon and he does it I thought that was so cool!. Overall this is an excellent Golf film that's funny and highly entertaining and I say it's a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5The Acting is fantastic!. Kevin Costner is brilliant here he is funny,charming, and showed why he became such a big star I am personally a big fan of Costner's and think he is a great actor, he showed off his great charisma here, some viewers may get frustrated by his actions but I thought they were just great and his chemistry with Russo is amazing!. Rene Russo is awesome here as the love interest, she is obviously nice to look at, but she is also a great actress, she had some very funny scenes with Costner, and cracked me up quite a few times, I feel this is one of her best roles!. Don Johnson is great as David Simms he had some very good scenes with Costner, you will hate him as he plays an excellent cocky prick. Cheech Marin is hilarious as Costner's caddy he cracked me up all the time and actually had a good couple emotional scenes!. "},{"Title":"Perfectly Imperfect","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like all its characters, including its villain, Don Johnson, this movie is not perfect but deeply likable. The beginning shots tell us everything we need to know about the world of our hero. An underachiever, he spends his time with a pseudo-family of guys who have probably achieved everything they were capable of - not much. Each's distinct personality is established with a few words. Kevin Costner is infinitely likable. If he told me, as he does Molly, the ultimate object of his quest, to grip it and rip it, I would grip anything he wanted gripped. Don Johnson, as the movie reaches its climax, conveys the insecurity that underlies his character's arrogance and guides his choices.I love that the movie upends our expectations and pokes fun at sports movie clichés, but at the end of the day, I do like for people to learn something about their lives. At the end of this movie, Tin Cup is making the same choices that derailed his career a dozen years earlier. The movie is a romance, but, although a woman would want to be with the roller coaster that is Tin Cup, would she want him for the father of her children. I don't know. "},{"Title":"A Golfer's Movie","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tin cup is the story of a has been college golf star Roy (Kevin Costner). Ever since failing to qualify for the PGA tour he has resorted to running an unsuccessful driving range. He had given up any aspirations of playing pro golf until he meets an old friend's girlfriend and decides to impress her by entering the U.S. Open.Tin Cup is unlike any other sports film I've seen. The protagonist is not a hero or great person, but a drunk and unintelligent slob. The only reason that this character is acceptable for the audience to cheer for is the charming and hilarious personality of Kevin Costner. In no way is this a great movie as the writing is sub par and the acting of anyone other than Costner is pathetic. Even Russo is annoying as the overly pompous head doctor.If it wasn't for the smart story and the acting talent of Costner this movie would not have been even heard of five years after it was released. Yet even today in the year 2006 people on the golf course still turn to me and say, I'm pulling a Tin Cup as they strive to make that impossible shot. "},{"Title":"Costner's best","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can take or leave most of Costner's stuff but this film is among my very favorites.  Costner's performance in this is easy, casual and he seems to play to his strengths.  Personally, I'd like to see him forget the serious stuff -- he's way too stiff -- and pursue roles similar to what propelled Harrison Ford to stardom, meaning a lovable wise-cracking rogue chock full of inner demons. "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a ride. Kevin Costner is excellent as the driving range pro given a second chance at redemption. Cheech Marin is also excellent as his caddy. Crackling dialogue and a perfect balance between humor and drama make this one shine. So pop this one in your VHS and DVD, and, as Roy says, Tee it up. "}{"Title":"What a fun movie, lots of quotable lines and great music","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so much fun, from the music selections to the believable characters. Several fun things to catch in this one so you'll want to watch it more than once.  You don't have to be a golf fan to appreciate 'defining the moment' or becoming more humble.  I was so happy, the first time I watched, that the writer didn't take the easy out for an ending. There is more comedy than romance in this romantic comedy - a really great balance for the film. This one will be on my top ten favorites for quite some time. Cheers! "},{"Title":"Only in a comedy could Peter Jacobsen be contending for the US Open!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS - I am a golfer, and of all the golf movies, Tin Cup and Happy Gilmore, both very funny comedies, are my favorites. Tin Cup is the name given to Costner's character, a reference to the protection he wore as a catcher. But Tin Cup is not really a golf movie at all. The theme could have been any game of skill. But golf works well.The story is really about this talented guy who lets demons in his head short-circuit what he wants to do. He runs a barely profitable driving range in hot and dry west Texas town of Salome. He falls in love when a shrink (Renee Russo) comes for lessons, but he is afraid to act on his intentions. On a dare he tries to qualify for the US Open, and barely does so.The climax is the US Open, actually filmed at a just-completed but not yet open course in the northeast Houston community of Kingwood. I remember in 1995 when they were requesting extras for the filming.After a terrible 83 opening round, he shoots an Open-record 62 to make the cut.  Fourth round, he is tied with Jacobson at 8-under, and needs a birdie to win, or a par for a playoff.  Hole 18, par-5, 238 yards from the cup, he hits a 3-wood that lands hole-high, about 4 feet away, but rolls back into the water.  Instead of taking a drop at the green, chipping and putting for a par, he just keeps dropping balls and hitting them into the water, until one goes in the cup. Gets a 7-over par 12 on the final hole, but he wins the girl.  He smiles and says, How about that last shot, wasn't it great?In a way this story reminds me of the one in Good Will Hunting, where we want him to use his mathematics talent for something great, but he goes after the girl. Here, we want Tin Cup to discipline himself, be all that he can be, look for the victory instead of always responding only to the challenge. But that is not the point of the story. The point is, golf is only a game, the US Open is only a very high profile game. Tin Cup wants to be a success in life and love, doesn't really care about the game that seems so important, falsely important, to so many people. Good film. Don Johnson is his golfer rival, and Russo's boyfriend.  Uses many real announcers and pro golfers - Venturi, Kostis, Stadler, Mickelson, Miller, Jacobsen. Only in a movie could Peter Jacobsen actually win the US Open golf tournament!  -) "},{"Title":"Better Than Rocky!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was going to write something lengthy, but after reading Mr. TXMike's comment I think he pretty much nailed it, plot, theme and all.  All I can add is that for a feel-good sports-as-life movie this one ranks pretty high. It's about the best thing you'll ever see Costner in (okay, my opinion only) and Rene Russo never looked lovelier.  As my friend from Houston said the film is not really about golf but about how a fella can get a lot more done for himself (and maybe even have a little fun) by taking a risk than by taking it easy, but also how playing it smart can be useful too.  It's basically about having a balanced perspective, something we could all use.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Beautiful, Beautiful","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is simply the top of the tree, the cream of the crop, the 7 iron from Cup's Caddy. For pure all American smoozy romance, some classic lines and probably Don Johnson's best film (and Costner's). Of all the sports in the world you would rarely imagine golf to be the one that is used so rightly to put life into perspective. This is a must see, a heart warmer and a goddam classic. "},{"Title":"Hole in One Costner!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The perfect romantic comedy has been made. It has got the perfect story. Kevin Costner plays the retired golf-player Roy McAvoy.One day he meets Molly Griswold (Rene Russo).Unfortunately she is involved with Roys friend David Simms (Don Johnson). To make Molly believe that he is better than David he is going to win US Open. Costner,Russo and Johnson are all great.But best of them all is Cheech Marin who plays Roys caddie Romeo.Many real Golf-pros have cameos in the movie. It's got a great soundtrack.Before I watched this movie I´d hated golf but afterwards I really like it.the rating is8.5 of 10  "},{"Title":"I loved it,","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, I do not like golf very much, but having Kevin Costner in it, I must go and watch it. I was very impressed with it, and found it funny. Cheech Marin really impressed me. Costner, Marin, Johnson Rosseau all worked very well together.  I must admit it was one of Kevin Costner's better films, thoroughly enjoyable.  In fact I will get it on video.   "},{"Title":"a breezy comedy about life, golf and getting the girl.","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tin Cup is a good movie. Surprisingly good, considering I didn't originally want to see it. However, this is a pleasant surprise. Very breezy fun movie that contains some really funny moments as well as some heartwarming ones.Of coarse, it helps to be a golf fan-which I am-this movie combines a story of rising to the top in the golf industry with a love story between Kevin Costner and Renee Russo. It's got a sharp witty breezy script. It's never boring. The golf scenes are great. The chemistry between Costner and Russo is quite strong.Tin Cup maybe one of Costner's least known movie's but it is one of his best as well. A definite good time viewing, 7 or 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A must-see for all golfers, amateurs and pro's!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a golf player really is almost a must to enjoy this movie, or at least know golf. However there are other things involved in the plot of this movie. You'll find romance, comedy and some drama aswell, though most of this movie centers around golf and it's surrounding environments. Kevin Coster does a terrific job in portraying Roy Tin Cup McAvoy, an old PGA pro that has spent his last years running a driving-range and hiding form the IRS ). Cheech Martin also astonishes with his role as The Mexican golf-guru and caddie to Tin Cup.All in all I strongly recommend this movie to everyone, however, be ware that if you do not know the wonderful game of golf, you might not enjoy it to the full extent. Golfers in general should be required to see this movie. )10 out of 10 - No q's about that! "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner, Rene Russo, AND Cheech Marin!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thank GOD for this movie!  Coming from a golf family (my father is a pro), I can totally appreciate what a great film this really is.Roy McAvoy (Kevin Costner), a broke down, once a great golfer, driving range pro deciding to try out for the U.S. Open, to win the heart of the beautiful Molly Griswold played graciously by Rene Russo, grabbed my heart.Kevin Costner is very funny in this movie, and the few times he doesn't deliver, you can certainly count on the always funny Cheech Marin to add his humor. The last 20 minutes of this movie will have you on the edge of your seat watching Roy McAvoy play the best golf he has ever played, and it will almost certainly put a tear in your eye! "},{"Title":"A funny, unlikely romance,... and a lot of golf -)","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a cute, funny, unlikely romance. Mr. Costner does vulnerable well. This was one of Cheech Marin's better performances as well. Golf pros and amateurs alike should like this one. "}{"Title":"Tin Cup - Is not about Golf !","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh please ! Tin Cup is truly a great film, but it isn't a sports comedy and it isn't a romance. Tin Cup is a blue print for life.  Roy's life decisions at their most complex are Budweiser or Coors and for pitys sake the man isn't a driving range owner he's an individual.Roy has booked his ticket on Easy Life Cruises - no fuss and no challenges and that's the way he likes it. As far as Rene Russo is concerned I don't think he really likes here and winning the US Open is not what it is all about.He takes the humiliation of caddying for Don Johnson (Roys Anti Christ) the man who represents the route of least resistance - the route which Roy has refused to take all his life. But, Tin Cup is finally forced into proving that If I wanted it - I could have itRoy stands by his principles all the way through - this is what the film is about. If you believe it - Do it ! Stand up and be counted ! The guy snaps all his clubs and plays the back nine with his Seven Iron. He gambles all and plays 18 holes with garden tools - and wins. I highly recommend the Shovel I almost p***** myself laughing.When he hits it through the bar and out of the French Doors across the pond and hits the post - even the accountants of this world were shouting You de man !I have watched this film a dozen times - The cinematography is nothing great and the acting is only okay and the cameo roles are embarrassing and Rene Russo is useless (always). It's in my top ten films because of the way it makes me feel. I was on my feet willing him to succeed in beating the system, knocking that smug grin off Don Johnson's face and walking out of that place with style.  "},{"Title":"The dream of every aspiring golfer-to compete and contend for the US Open-is realized by a driving range pro from Texas","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Tin Cup, Kevin Costner takes his love for the game of golf and works in a love triangle, and a golfer's quest for an impossible dream-to win the US Open and the heart of his rival's girl.Costner is an obscure driving range owner with his eyes set on conquering any challenge set on a golf course.  Rene Russo is a lady psychiatrist, and Don Johnson a slick touring pro that happens to be in Costner's way to win both Rene and the Open.  The film focuses on the challenges that Costner has to overcome on his way to the Title, and non-golfers may find some of the golf references a mite hard to understand, but the film does enable all viewers to enjoy the contemporary romantic sports comedy.  Golfers will also enjoy the cameo roles of many members of the professional tour who took time to portray themselves in the tournament, as well as learning some of the trade secrets of broadcasting a golf tournament.  This is a film that all can relax with.  "},{"Title":"A must-see for all weekend athletes","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not that this film should have won any awards (it didn't), but it's entertaining, fun, and original enough not to bore you.Kevin Costner plays Roy Macavoy, a good IL' boy with a killer golf game who uses his talents to teach the game to others, or hustle the occasional executive type who is half-mark, half-patron. Roy would be a good poster child for what not to do in your financial planning, and his lifestyle is generally overlooked because of his talent and good nature. Cheech Marin is competent as his sidekick, caddy, confidant and co-conspirator.Rene Russo is typically grating as Dr. Molly Griswold, the girlfriend of Roy's longtime golf rival, David Simms (played by Don Johnson). I can overlook the casting of Russo here, as that was in vogue at the time. She more or less reprises the role she played in Major League, of the career woman who falls for an outcast, believes she deserves better, and struggles throughout the movie until the high-brow jerk shows his true colors.Tin Cup is not a romantic comedy set to golf, but rather a golf movie set in the context of a love triangle, which is used here as a plot device to set up the all-important golf rivalry that culminates in the US Open, which Roy makes as he finally gains focus, in part because of the pretexted therapy from Dr. Griswold to help his mental game (the therapy seems to consist mostly of her rejecting his advances and telling him to get his act together), but she begins learning from him to become more carefree. While this bonding occurs, Simms is his smug, assured, and very successful self, and the rivalry reveals sides of him that have Dr. Griswold questioning her choice.Dr. Simms did play the heavy in this film, but the real battle took place between Roy and the shot, a 230-yard drive, over a water hazard, and onto a very unforgiving green that spits your ball into the water unless you hit the sweet spot. Roy is faced with this shot over and over again throughout the movie, and each confrontation he has with it reveals more of his character, and the resolution to this movie involves one last confrontation between the two.Herein lies the movie's premise do you play it safe and go through life living well, or do you let it all hang out in search of eternal glory in the minds of all who watched? Costner and Johnson do a credible job contrasting the two lifestyles, and showing that underneath it all, there really isn't much difference between the PGA touring professionals and many driving range instructors, except maybe in motivation and mental focus. Like Major League, this film would have been a lot better without Russo, but it's not bad. "},{"Title":"A Little Bit Is Better Than Nada","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tin Cup is a movie I liked a lot.  Ron Shelton and star Kevin Costner make a great directing and acting team.  I was the only one on Earth who thought their previous effort Bull Durham was overrated.  I enjoyed this flick much more.  Kevin has had a hit movie in quite a while.  So he and Ron need to hook up again and make another sports related comedy and have themselves a nice little trilogy.  I usually don't care for sports, but I like how Shelton centers most of his flicks around a different sport for each film.It's got a good, simple story, and a plot that's character driven.  The film's got a great soundtrack and a some gorgeous Texas and Arizona locations.  A female friend, who bears a striking resemblance to Rene Russo, that I showed this film said it made her wanna go out and shoot a few golf balls at the local driving range.  Kev Costner's Tin Cup lives in a charming, laid back world of run down driving ranges, Waffle House restaurants and golf courses.  I could relate to Cup's lazy bachelor lifestyle and diet that consists pretty much of beer, hot dogs and Dunkin' Donuts.But this is a fun movie about lovable screw up who gets his gold life and love life together.  One thing that would have made the movie even better, is if the part of Doreen the stripper had been played by Dolly Parton.  Dolly and Cheech Marin would have made a killer on screen couple!  It would have bagged Dolly an easy Golden Globe or Oscar nomination.  The Golden Globes.  With an awards name like that, how perfect would it be for someone like Dolly Parton to win one?  Cheers!      "},{"Title":"I can watch this movie over and over.","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this film at least 40 times. I just love golf movies with a sense of humor.  This one takes us into the world of pro golf. The terminology is right on.Costner is awesome. He makes me laugh with his perfect cockiness.  Don Johnson is great as well.  You have to love Cheech.The scene where Cheech (his caddy) and Kevin fight over which club to use is PRICELESS.If you haven't seen this, and you like golf, rent it tonight. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable even if you don't like golf","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I should start out by saying I am not a golf fan by any means.  I think it's the most boring sport in the world, and I'd rather watch paint dry than golf.  However, I am a fan of Ron Shelton.  The films he's directed, BULL DURHAM, WHITE MEN CAN'T JUMP, and COBB, have all been terrific films about sports.  With the exception of COBB, which is more an examination of hero worship, these movies(and Shelton's upcoming PLAY IT TO THE BONE, about boxing) have been comedies, and with romantic stories thrown in as well.  This proves that Shelton is able to accomplish a difficult trick; he makes these movies to hook people who may have no interest in the sport he's talking about, yet at the same time satisfies the sport's fans by demonstrating a deep love and knowledge of the sport without trying to make a ROCKY or BAD NEWS BEARS clone.TIN CUP is his movie about golf, but, of course, it's also a romantic comedy about the relationship between Kevin Costner as a golf caddy and Rene Russo as a scatter-brained psychologist.  Since the golf stuff, though well-presented, was the least interesting part of the movie for me, I focused on the romantic comedy part, and it's sharply drawn.  Costner is back in BULL DURHAM form, playing a grungy but likeable character, and he's especially good at pulling off the speeches, which are a Shelton trademark(remember his I believe in speech in BULL DURHAM), and can come off florid in other hands but work well here.  Russo is his match every way, especially pulling off the shifting moods her character goes through.  I'm not a big fan of Don Johnson or Cheech Marin, but they both add solid support.One thing though; It'd be nice if for once, one of these sports romantic comedies could have women athletes for a change, maybe involved with a male athlete.  Tennis, anyone? "},{"Title":"I didn't like Tin Cup so much but I liked the performances","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think Tin Cup had the potential to be a much better movie. If this movie would have lasted 100 minutes instead of its 135 Tin Cup would have more that 6 stars.I liked the performances of Kevin Costner as Roy 'Tin Cup' McAvoy, Rene Russo as Dr. Molly Griswold, Don Johnson as David Simms and Cheech Marin as Romeo Posar.The plot of the movie is about Roy 'Tin Cup' McAvoy, a golf teacher in a very poor golf field, who once was a great college golf player. One day Roy will see again to his old enemy David Simms, and because of David and David's girlfriend, Dr. Molly Griswold, Roy will train with his caddy Romeo Posar to get in the US OPEN and win the tournament. "},{"Title":"a pair of men measuring their...","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First, I should say that I take no stock in golf. To tell you the truth, I consider it a game for rich snobs. And I don't think that Tin Cup is any kind of great movie (I have little if any respect for Kevin Costner). But this movie elicits a certain charm, with Costner as a down-and-out golfer balancing his life between a relationship and his game. I didn't derive that the movie really offered anything new to the cinematic landscape, but if nothing else, Cheech Marin's performance carries the movie.So, maybe this is little more than a way to pass time, but it's enjoyable for what it is. Also starring Rene Russo and Don Johnson.My favorite golf movie is Caddyshack. And Robin Williams had a hilarious stand-up comment speculating on the sport's origins. "},{"Title":"how can this not get a 10","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anyone who saw this movie and did not vote 10 has serious problems and should be monitored for psychosis. Not only did it make a sports movie interesting to women but it covers just about every emotion in the world to perfection. Competition, love, humor, friendships, money issues the list goes on. I just don't have the time. It has the greatest ending to any movie, let alone a sports movie, the only other movies ending that could come close is A Few Good Men, thats how great Tin Cup is. I am very upset at the rating this movie has it literally disgusts me. Please watch this movie and then come back here and give it the 10 vote that it deserves "},{"Title":"Costner's Best is Bright, Breezy Golf Tale...","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Costner should stick to comedy...yeah, I know OPEN RANGE is a lyrical, beautiful Western drama, FIELD OF DREAMS is a moving fantasy, and THE UNTOUCHABLES is a first-rate, if fanciful, action yarn...but where he truly shines is when he flashes that 'naughty little boy' grin, while challenging the world to meet him on his own terms, as he does in the comedies BULL DURHAM, and, even more impressively, in TIN CUP. Because of the success of these films, some 'genius' told Costner he excelled at 'sports' flicks, which resulted in the tedious FOR LOVE OF THE GAME, but it ISN'T 'sports' that made these films work, it is C-O-M-E-D-Y! TIN CUP is a funny, touching parable about likable loser Roy 'Tin Cup' McAvoy (Costner), an 'almost great' who blew his chance at a pro golf career by refusing to 'play it safe' when qualifying for the pro tour. Years later, he's reduced to running a seedy driving range/golf school, assisted by life-long friend Romeo (the marvelous Cheech Marin). Surrounded by faithful buddies, he's content to whack drives, make bets on his skills, and drink...until beautiful shrink Dr. Molly Griswold (Rene Russo, in her finest comic work) comes for golf lessons. She challenges Roy, even as he flirts with her, and he is immediately smitten...only to discover she's 'involved' with ex-college teammate turned smarmy pro golfer David Simms (Don Johnson, who seems to be playing himself!). The opportunistic Simms offers him a caddy job, which Roy takes, needing the money...then he gets fired, by hitting an 'impossible' approach shot, on a bet, which 'shows up' Simms, in front of a national TV audience. Roy realizes that he's still good enough to win money at golf (and steal the woman he loves away from the jerk she's hooked up with), so he decides to clean up his act and qualify for the U.S. Open...The wonderful thing about TIN CUP is that you don't have to understand golf to enjoy the film. 'Tin Cup' McAvoy is such an ingratiating, if headstrong, 'everyman' that any person who has ever dreamed of achieving something 'more' with his life will certainly identify with him. Roy is not superhuman (he has more than his share of ego to deal with), but he is true to himself, unwilling to just 'play it safe' (his one attempt to conform is a total disaster). The role fits Costner perfectly, and as he proves that true victory is not determined by a scorecard, but in taking chances, he is irresistible!Kevin, if you're listening, the world NEEDS to laugh, now, more than ever...Please, no more heavy-handed tearjerkers for a while, give us another great comedy!   "}{"Title":"Charming Costner & Luscious Russo make a fine romantic comic couple","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" TIN CUP (1996) *** Kevin Costner, Rene Russo, Don Johnson, Cheech Marin, Linda Hart, Dennis Burkley. Charming romantic comedy with Costner in top form as down-on-his-luck golf pro/loser Roy McAvoy out to woo brainy psychotherapist Russo (her best role and acting yet) by turning his life around and making an attempt at getting a shot at golf's US Open with only himself and rival Johnson in the way. Funny and surprisingly smart screenplay by writer director Ron Shelton and Marin stealing every scene as Costner's sidekick/mentor. A real winner for anyone whoever considered themselves a loser. "},{"Title":"There's some things I just can't explain...","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now, I wouldn't blame anybody for thinking that Tin Cup is a mediocre movie. It's somewhat predictable and corny, but it boasts one thing that makes it stand out from the rest of the class - possibly the most memorable scene in any sports movie ever.Most movies that try to arouse emotions in me fail miserably, possibly I'm an unemotional guy. But admittedly I love watching sports (can't say that for golf, though) and movies about sports like Major League or Cool Runnings always manage to catch a small bit of the spirit.Tin Cup tops them all, though, with that single scene. The whole movie worked up to it, that inevitable moment - and for that alone I'd recommend watching the film. "},{"Title":"FORE!!! threetwoone &#133;&#133;&#133; smooch.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aaaaahhhhh. Inventive and tender, a sublime little love story all can relate to. This film does for golf what Star Trek did for the split infinitive. Puts it into perspective. To Boldly Stroke Where No Man Has Stroked Before. Golf is without question the most powerful game in existence. What other recreational activity can, with a single stoke, take away you're dignity, self esteem, sense of accomplishment, all you're money, all your business associates, and put someone in the hospital. Don't ask!This sweet little gem, is a fine piece of craftsmanship. Kevin Costner swings like crazy for Rene Russo's love and Don Johnson is the arrogant third point in the triangle; I was quite surprised by how well he handles his role. Cheech Marin is stuck in the middle trying hard not to get creamed. He is very funny and plays both the straight man and comic consistently and effectively. The four of them bounce off of each other naturally and skillfully, hitting great one-liners all over the place. The loving is Latin - sincere, heartfelt and rhythmical. This film is a definite hole-in-one.  "},{"Title":"Cup of cheer....","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After churning out duds like Waterworld and Robin Hood Prince of Thieves, Kevin Costner finally realized that his fate lies instead with smaller-scale efforts, ones that deal closer to the heart and mind... and in this case, the nine-iron.Tin Cup details all of these in fine detail as golfing teacher Roy McAvoy (Costner) ekes out a living in the middle of nowhere with caddy/buddy Romeo (Cheech Marin).  One day, his run of bad luck changes when he starts giving putting lessons to the beautiful Dr. Molly Griswold (Rene Russo), who also happens to be the girlfriend of long-time nemesis David Simms (a suitably smarmy Don Johnson).  This combination of jealousy and the frustration of the unattainable spurs Costner to think the unthinkable training for the US Open and gaining back some self-respect along the way.  Of course, there's that temper of his he has to deal with....Ron Shelton directs his own screenplay in a way different than his other efforts (namely White Men Don't Jump) in the fact that it has no hard-edged, biting, ferocious commentary and is in fact closer to the essence of earlier Costner collaboration Bull Durham in its easy, laid-back take on sports and the idiosyncrasies of their players.  In fact, there's less emphasis on sports than there is human nature and how one's inner-self affects their game play (very Zen for a sports movie, but it's all good).Everyone plays their parts well, especially Costner whose character is much like his true self a perfectionist who on his good days is great but is lacking on his bad.  Marin is THE best pal, through thick and thin, good and especially bad.  Russo plays the love interest with as much confusion as the situation would merit; this is definitely one psychiatrist you would want to get a second opinion on after visiting.  Her phone call scene after his first office talk with Costner is a masterpiece of tics and fidgets, on par with Woody Allen.And Don Johnson was born to the part of elitist snob - the hot golden boy who is money when the camera's on but a vile, dog-hating villain when not.And there are a bewildering number of bit parts that are amusing in their own right; you have to watch close, but you'll see a lot of individual humanity in every scene.  Especially at the Waffle House.Then there's the final golf game.  I'll give away nothing about the scene, but when you watch it, see if your heart doesn't ache for Roy McAvoy as he doggedly struggles to beat the odds - in spite of himself and in the face of better judgment.A great movie, maybe not for gold purists, but for old-fashioned romantics, Tin Cup is an eagle.Ten stars, and a gold-plated shovel for Tin Cup, a movie full of pros. "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had thought of seeing this movie when it was out, and having enjoyed Rene Russo in Thomas Crown Affair (ok I enjoyed her naked), I got the video, and I thought it was very boring.  Luckily I also rented Run Lola Run so the night wasn't a total waste. "},{"Title":"This is NOT a movie about golf","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tin Cup - a movie about a washed-up golfer who enters the US Open to win the heart of a woman who's in love with a rival. There's the concept pitch, and I'm reaching for an airline sick bag already.But that synopsis misses the point. This is NOT a movie about golf - although it has many deep insights into the game. It's a movie about reaching for the stars and not playing safe. It's a movie about being true to yourself.It's a buddy picture. It's a romance. It's a feel-good, the little guy battles with adversity, and doesn't win, but comes out a bigger person. It's about immortality and being in the moment.You've probably guessed that I love this film. Every time I watch it the same emotions sweep through me, and the same tears come to my eyes.And to think that there are people submitting to this database that score it 6.5 out of 10, and who claim that Star Wars Episode 1 is a great movie, just shows that we've been so overwhelmed by computer graphics and story formulation that we've lost sight of what really makes a movie great - human spirit.If you loved It's a Wonderful Life (and if you didn't, you're dead), you'll love Tin Cup. Give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Supporting Cast Makes It Barely Watchable","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are three reasons to watch this movie Rene Russo, Cheech Marin, and Don Johnson. The rest of it is a waste of time. Kevin Costner's character, the protagonist, is a jerk from beginning to end. He never changes, he never learns anything, he is a total loser. I don't know whether to blame the script writer, the director, or Costner, but it doesn't really matter. The main character is entirely unsympathetic. Marin has some great lines, and he delivers them beautifully. Russo is sexy and plays her part perfectly. Johnson's performance is excellent, except for the one scene in which the director or scrip writer or someone decided that he needed to play completely out of character in order to make him the villain. It even appeared that he was embarrassed to have to do that scene, since it was totally inconsistent with the rest of his role. I will watch the film again, but just to enjoy watching Russo, Marin, and Johnson. "},{"Title":"Four Score And We Want More","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Would love, love, love to see a sequel done to this movie.  It's fun even if you don't know how to play golf (and I don't).  The soundtrack to this movie is really good.  Especially love that song, Big Stick and Nobody There But Me.  Do wish there wasn't the foul language, though.  I think it's a 10 plus with a little draw!  "},{"Title":"Very very boring","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tin cup is one of the most boring movies I have ever seen. (Only comparable to Phenomenon of Travolta) Put aside the last ten minutes of US Open scenes, the whole movie is full of dull and boring dialogs and sub plots. I slept most of it. The movie force you to doze off involuntarily and makes you wake up here and there probably due to a high pithced Dolby sound when the actors slam a door or ingite a car to drive.The only redeeming value of the film is the beautiful look of Rene Russo despite her age. The lead hero is disgusting and not one to root for. Never seen Kevin so desperate and shabby like this. Good as a sleep pill, otherwise hell of a boring movie....Avoid. "},{"Title":"Please stop churning out this sort of rubbish.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me get this straight. In order to enjoy a film, I like it to either have a new slant on a subject, have something deep to say, or at least have some good acting. This film had none of these said attributes.It is simply a string of uninspiring scenes involving stupid golfing shots. Don't get me wrong, I am all in favour of watching films that dabble in acts of improbability, but only when they are done in an amusing manner. In my opinion this was the equivalent of the as yet unmade Earnest plays golf, but without anyone funny and less of a love interest. The all-conquering Happy Gilmore released in the same year was almost based along the same lines but was immeasurably funnier, thrilling and dramatic.This was indeed an example of how to make a big budget film and leave it with almost no redeeming features. This sort of film is always along the same lines. We get to see events through the eyes off the main character who has a clearly defined adversary from the very start. Glory will fall into the hands of either the person that we are seeing events through (the good guy), or to his main rival (the bad guy). It is never a case of them both being thoroughly good blokes of unquestionable moral integrity. It never falls into the hands of a third, unmentioned party. If the film is from the ranks of Hollywood then it is almost certain that victory will go to this supposedly good guy. There is no need to get excited at the end when the victor is to be decided.If you are a golf fan and want to watch an unfunny dramatisation of your sport, then you've found the right film. If, however, you just want to watch an amusing golf film, then go for Caddy Shack or Happy Gilmore, even if you have seen them 100 times before.Please, avoid watching this banal and cliché-laden offering UNLESS you are of the type that actively avoids thinking; watches soap operas; listens with your mouth open and writes with your tongue sticking out. "}{"Title":"Poor - however,  good for your average insomniac","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just didn't understand the reason for this film. Mindless pap is the most enthusiasm I can muster to even write about it. (Just) It seemed to promise something round every 15 minute corner and turned into just another scene for Kev to waggle his a**e at Russo.Leave alone.   "},{"Title":"One for the golfers","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the lowest scoring movie on the imdb that I own on dvd. In my defence I do play golf and it is a film that will appeal more to golfers.Roy McAvoy (Costner) is nicknamed tin cup and is a very good golfer who never quite embraced course management. He's ended up as a Driving Range pro and is lucky enough to meet Molly (Russo) at the range. Molly of course is dating is old adversary Simms (Johnson) who is now one of the leading players on the tour. I think given that outline most people would be able to fill in the missing bits and pretty much predict what was going to happen in the film. Having said that it's very easy on the eye and Russo looks particularly attractive in the golf gear. 8/10 - but only for golfers.  "},{"Title":"Predictable, gooey, formulaic, feel-good, syrupy.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is sickly. No, predictable. That's the word. A series of hugely unlikely scenarios vaguely connected by a formula that Hollywood seems to think can be rehashed over and again - an eccentric hero that people (they think) would take as some kind of hero, on account of his consistent failure. Would a successful chick like the 'doctor' look twice at a trailer-living, scruffy-but-apparently-philosophically-brilliant utter failure like 'Tin Cup'? I don't think so. And then, of course despite the shanks, he gets into the U.S. Open. Of course he does...if only for the excuse to get golf-big-names exposed to the wider public.So to make the movie work, simply take an unlikely scenario (golf), apply a twist or two (so-legendary-that no-one-ever-heard-of-him-golf-pro who is so far down on his luck he runs a middle-of-nowhere driving range and lives in a trailer) add a few unlikely eccentrics (failure-loving intelligent chick, business-savvy stripper (ok people, no stereotypes applied, but they do they exist??) and mix the whole lot up with a load of pseudo-psychology, and predictable situations like the golf-pro getting the 'shanks', or the psychiatrist calling her mentor to explain how cute the golf-pro is. Why does Russo get involved in this stuff (see the scene in Thomas Crown Affair on the patio in Brosnan's tropical shag-pad).The result? A movie that, unless it casted two mega-stars would never have succeeded, appeals to only the kind of viewer who just wants to see Kevin or Renee on a screen no matter what they acted. Feel-good, whatever the phrase, this film is utter tosh. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a zero laugh movie.  That is not good for a comedy.  No drama here, either.  This movie serves as proof that if a major industry player chooses to spend enough money on promotion it can promote anything into making money if it features a star that is popular at the time the movie comes out.  This snoozer makes Happy Gilmore and Caddyshack look like Godfather I and Godfather II.  Heck, it even makes Dude Where's My Car look like Schindler's List.  The only good thing about this movie is the end, because you realize that no matter what you do, and no matter how long you live, you will never have to sit through another movie as lame as this.    "},{"Title":"Skip this film and miss nothing","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie may know something about golf, but it doesn't speak to any of the reasons I enjoy film.  Rather than inhabiting the characters, the actors preen as if they are cock-sure we will like them for their looks.  And while they may be good-looking, the coarse language detracts more from every scene than any amount of make-up or costume change can compensate for.I found the plot simplistic and formulaic, and for this reason alone I can not recommend the film.  But if stronger reasons are needed outside boredom, be advised that this film insults with its incessant use of bad language. "},{"Title":"It's the pits!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't like Kevin Costner (that charming little grin is always present) and find him a complete bore. He hasn't done anything interesting since Dances with wolves. I HATE golf. Mix them together and you have this so-called romantic-comedy. Where is the comedy? I didn't laugh once. Rene Russo, an talented actress, is given absolutely nothing to do. This movie has a smell of lets-give-the-audience-what-it-wants that you can feel a mile away! "},{"Title":"Basically just another tepid love story","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a big production with lots of big names and flashy scenes, but it still failed to score with me. No problem with the performances and most of the dialogue was interesting, but I could find no sympathy for the loser golfer with the winning smile and personality who was at heart just another self made casualty of life. He just plain aggravated me with his silly, self flagellating nonsense. What a wormy moron, and he gets the girlwhich, considering the standard female attitude toward dips like him, was no surprise either. "},{"Title":"Mindless? Yes..entertaining, no!","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ooh whee does this movie stink!. Ever hear of going to the well one too many times? Certainly Ron Shelton demonstrates here that he's no smarter than most in Hollywood going back to the sports well for the ump-too-many time (Great White Hype, Cobb, Blue Chips), as well as contaminating what was a nice collaboration-that being Shelton+Costner=Bull Durham.Every situation in this film is painful to watch. I'm constantly reminded of a guy with a bad toupee. He won't take it off, he just fidgets with it, constantly. Put Don Johnson in any scene, and he walks all over everyone else trying to steal it. Kevin Costner looks so incredibly uncomfortable, that it makes me uncomfortable to watch him. It's almost like he just had a tremendous failure in his career (Waterworld) with knowledge that an even bigger one (The Postman) is on the way.I'm an avid golfer, and listen, golf is boring to watch, even the good golfers. It's even more boring to watch bad golfers, who cares if they're acting like good golfers?So it was just a bad idea, complicated by some bad casting choices, a lethal combination which may only happen some 30-50 times a year on screen.On to the next.  "},{"Title":"Only for the people who love golf and know something about it","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I know that golf is a pretty popular sport in the USA, but over here it isn't at all. Here most golfers belong to the demographic group of old and fat retired business men and women wearing incredibly ugly pants... Since I'm not one of those people, I'm also not very interested in playing golf or even watching it. So why would I ever want to see a movie about it? Well Tin Cup is a comedy, so I hoped for the best and gave it a try...Kevin Costner plays the role of Roy 'Tin Cup' McAvoy, a failed pro golfer who lives in a trailer at a crummy driving range which he owns. One day, a beautiful woman called Dr. Molly Griswold, appears at his driving range asking for golf lessons. Of course he's immediately interested in her, but she appears to be the girlfriend of the men he hates the most PGA superstar David Simms, who he knows for years and who always laughs with McAvoy because he was never able to make something of his life as a pro golfer. But then Dr. Griswold inspires him to start taking himself seriously again and eventually he even decides to try to qualify for the US Open...Since I'm not a golf fan and don't know much about the game or about the, probably very famous, players that got a little role in this movie, I have to watch for other interesting things. One thing for example I always focus on is the story. A movie always needs a good story, whether it is a thriller, a drama, a comedy. It doesn't matter, but the story needs to be good and if possible also original and that's where the first problems occur. This isn't original at all, but very predictable and to be honest also not very believable (a good player that has wasted his talent but than starts at the US Open golf and does a good job??? I don't think that has happened very often yet).Another thing that I always pay some attention to is the acting and I have to be honest, that wasn't too bad. Rene Russo, Don Johnson, Linda Hart, Cheech Marin, Kevin Costner... that's not exactly a top cast, but they did pretty well. However, it just isn't enough to save this entire movie, which is really too bad, because it would probably never be a world shocking movie, but it certainly has some potential. Now I give this movie only a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Costner doesn't destroy this one","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is funny when he doesn't direct the film, the film actually turns out pretty good.  The beginning and ending was strong, but the middle had too much filler material.  Don Johnson plays an excellent role.  He looked and had that sarcastic attitude as he did as Sonny Crockett on Miami Vice.  I enjoyed this part.  This movie was worth renting, but nothing to scream about. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Too much romance, not enough golf","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be honest, I'm a huge fan of Golf and on the other end of the scale- I pretty much despise romantic comedy so really, the only way in which I'm going to go through something I dislike is if there's something on the other side or mixed up within that I really love. Tin Cup tries to be this perfect balance.The build up in relations between Costner and Russo goes on for far too long. The situation is set He likes her but his rival/ex-buddy is dating her, fine now move on to the actual bulk of the plot/film. It doesn't, in fact it stays on the same level for a long time. We have to actually remind ourselves that Costner is still a golfer throughout his little interactions with the female lead. When we are treated to a bit of golf, the film takes one too many gears up into the 'out-of-the- question' region as we see him defy the laws of golf and, at the same time, make pretty much every other golfer watching feel as if he's only been playing five minutes as he throws the ball up in the air and smacks it down the middle with- wait for it- a baseball bat(!) How ridiculous is that?The sheer fantasy of Costner's character spoils this film on its own, let alone all the other glitchy, annoying things that occur. We're even led to believe that he can shoot an extraordinary low round by using only the 7-iron on the back nine of a demanding course, yes even on the green and whilst in greenside bunkers, he can still loft it out and one putt (with the back of the club face) to save par. These sort of annoying traits that he pulls off drag the film down further and just turn it into the category of 'farcical'. The film is flawed, surely he would have 'made it' if he's that good, but he didn't somehow.As soon as talk of entering the U.S. open starts, you just know how what's going to happen. The old story of 'here comes the underdog' who is probably the most skilled player ever to pick up a golf club yet still failed miserably in life.The film is farcical, highly-unbelievable and monotonous in it's attempt to build up character relations. The typical ending and cheesy music throughout just rounds it off. "},{"Title":"I Was Bored Because...","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... There`s two things ( Amongst others ) I find boring . One is the sport of golf where boring ( OMG are golfers boring ) men with absolutely no dress sense strut around whacking a ball into a hole a few hundred yards away . The second is a Kevin Costner performance . Can there be a less charismatic leading man from the last 20 years ? A commie outlaw in merry olde England , a man living amongst red indians , a man investigating the murder of a president , a man sailing the oceans in search of land - No matter what role he plays I have to struggle to stay awake when he`s on screen . I yawned all the way through this due to the plot and the leading man , and I`ve had to take two long naps while writing this review , that`s the effect TIN CUP had on me The movie isn`t helped by the screenplay that revolves around Costner ( I can`t remember his character`s name because I didn`t think I was watching a character be played out on screen - I was watching Kevin Costner playing himself yet again ) getting ready for a golf tournament while trying to juggle a relationship . So right away you know that the climax takes place at a make or break tournament where he either wins or loses the tournament and he wins or loses the gal , that`s if anyone cares in the first place and I know I didn`t . In the meantime we have to suffer Kev wearing sun shades , smiling , having a beer and hear him utter a rude word or two . I think he might have tried to sing but I was struggling to stay awake at this pointIf you`re an addict of either golf or Kevin Costner you`ll enjoy this movie. If you`re a fan of both then you must be the saddest person on Earth , and if you`re a fan of neither then only watch this if you can`t sleepZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ "}]