[{"Title":"The height of autumnal wistfulness.","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reading Trevor Nunn's thoughts on his film, it is easy to conclude that they were lucky to obtain such sublime weather for the large duration of the filming, in November. The Cornwall locations are absolutely enchanting; showing an England so far from the urban norm these days. The beautiful natural light, with later dark contrasts, perfectly complements the jovial, winning mood of this Shakespeare comedy brought to screen and, what is more, this is truly beyond any sense of 'heritage cinema', as Shakespeare's genius is retained.Yes, it is all a very 'accessible' package, but much is unusual and distinctive to this film adaptation. Ben Kinglsey is perhaps the most glaring instance of a radical re-invisioning; his acting - stripped bare of artifice - is utterly compelling and keeps you watching his every mannerism. This Feste is an eccentric, multi-talented clown and performer, but he also bears words of cutting, melancholy truth. Indeed, both are wonderfully combined with the gorgeously sad scene of Staunton, Grant and Smith listening to his sad song they listen and the words cut into their veneers. Loneliness is at their very core. What a brilliantly rounded comedy this is; balanced by melancholy - the inch-perfect awry note struck by Hawthorne's Malvolio appearing at the end - and good will - the comradely bonhomie that Grant and Smith are indeed shown to share.Hawthorne and perhaps more surprisingly Mel Smith and Richard E. Grant really do a fine job and imbuing some real character in their parts; treading a line between broad comedic playing and human sadness. Along with Kingsley's career-best (? not seen too many of his films) performance, they lend this film its heart, and play very well against the wonderful settings. Mackintosh and Stubbs are I guess a little less compelling, but these roles are really difficult to carry off... nothing about them really lingers too long in the memory, like Kingsley's expressions, bizarre little pieces of dance and his pared-down delivery. Helena Bonham Carter is perhaps overly assured as the vain countess dame, Olivia oh so archly bemused when faced by the cross-gartered, prancing Hawthorne, but generally Ms. Bonham Carter is very much in her usual, predictably petulant, period-costume mode. Which is probably being unfair; she does convince, at the end of the day.Overall then, a wonderfully colourful delight, bearing the flavour of bright, melancholy late summer-into-autumn. A strange chill is cast by the compelling Kinglsey; a sadness that cannot be dispelled. This film has light amusement in addition to this real edge, and is ultimately a very affecting rendering of a bona fide Shakesperean classic. "},{"Title":"A beautiful adaptation","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Trevor Nunn's beautifully photographed and acted, deftly written film is one of the most enjoyable adaptations of a Shakespeare play ever made. Helena Bonham Carter is pitch perfect as the beautiful Olivia, who in deep mourning for her dead brother, falls in love with Cesario (who happens to be a woman named Viola dressed up as a man, wonderfully played by Imogen Stubbs, the only actress I've ever seen able to create both a charming Viola and a totally believable Cesario), meanwhile Viola falls for the Duke of fictional Illyria (the exquisite Toby Stephens) who is desperately in love with the Lady Olivia. Meanwhile, Viola's lost twin brother (Steven Mackintosh of Gentlemen Don't Eat Poets, excellent again here) winds up in Illyria and adds to the confusion. Wonderful, layered support comes from Ben Kingsley playing Feste, Olivia's fool. The only flaw, perhaps, is the few minutes before the conclusion when everything seems to be coated with a thick gloss of sugar; the film comes through this unscathed. Trevor Nunn comes through with an exquisite Shakespeare film adaptation (which is a do or die task). A great showcase for the heavenly cast featuring some of the best performances ever by Bonham Carter (save Wings of the Dove), Kingsley (in his best supporting turn ever), novice Stubbs, and Stephens. A very worthwhile effort. Rent it, you won't be let down. "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is, quite simply, the best production of a Shakespeare comedy ever filmed. The plot is delightfully absurd, the acting brilliant, the direction superb. It is the sort of comedy you can watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"One of the best interpretations of Shakespeare","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Illyria, Orsino (Toby Stephens), a nobleman, is saddened because he cannot have the love of Lady Olivia (Helena Bonham-Carter) who is mourning the loss of her brother. Meanwhile, twins Sebastian (Stephen Mackintosh) and Viola (Imogen Stubbs) both survive a terrible shipwreck off the coast, but each thinks the other has died. Viola takes the guise of a man and goes to work in the household of the nobleman, falling in love with Duke Orsino. Meanwhile Olivia is taken with Viola who calls herself Cesario. This is the premise of one of William Shakespeare's most appealing comedies, Twelfth Night Or What You Will, updated from Elizabethan England to late 19th century and brought to life by director Trevor Nunn. It is one of the best interpretations of Shakespeare that I have seen on film.Reminiscent of other Shakespearean cross-dressing comedies such as As You Like It, Twelfth Night is mostly about the ins and outs of romantic love but it is also about pride, overweening ambition, disguises, and mistaken identities. The play contains some of Shakespeare's most memorable characters Sir Toby Belch (Mel Smith), Olivia's drunken uncle, his friend Sir Andrew Aguecheek (Richard E. Grant) who is also trying to court Olivia, Olivia's gentlewoman Maria (Imelda Staunton), Feste (Ben Kingsley), the house clown, and Malvolio (Nigel Hawthorne) the prudish steward. Nunn has assembled a cast that more than does justice to the play. Imogen Stubbs as Viola actually looks like a handsome young man and has a sense of purity and innocence that makes her instantly likable. Helena Bonham Carter brings warmth to the character of Olivia who like Orsino seems to be in love with the idea of love not the reality. Some have noticed a similarity between the character of Olivia and Queen Elizabeth and interestingly, Olivia is addressed by Feste as madonna, the only time the word is used in all of Shakespeare, perhaps a wry comment about the myth of the Virgin Queen.The main story involves a love triangle between Orsinio, Viola, and Olivia but the minor characters have more than ample time on stage. Malvolio is both a comic and a tragic figure, said to caricature Sir Christopher Hatton, a courtier, romantic pursuer of the Queen and rival of the Earl of Oxford. Hatton was so fawning Elizabeth called him her sheep or mutton and this allusion is present early in the play as Malvolio is called a rascally sheep-biter, harking back to Hatton's letter assuring Elizabeth that The sheep hath no tooth to bite while the Boar's (Oxford) tusk doth raze and tear. Malvolio is a puritan who rails against people having fun, a trait that earns him the enmity of Sir Toby and Maria. To strike back, Maria engineers a joke on Malvolio. She forges a love letter supposedly from Olivia telling him that if he wants her to notice him, he should dress in yellow stockings and crossed garters and, as he woos Olivia dressed in his strange attire, Malvolio cuts a ridiculous figure (incidentally this is the same costume worn by Henry VIII when he danced with Anne Boleyn, Queen Elizabeth's mother, at a masked ball, before he had her beheaded for adultery).While there are many great performances, the star for me is Ben Kingsley who is totally convincing as Feste, a fool but a knowing one who functions as an objective commentator of the scene around him, exuding an air of righteous superiority. His portrayal of the priest Sir Topas who interrogates Malvolio in a darkened room has overtones of the 1581 trial and execution of Edmund Campion, a Jesuit priest who was executed by the English government in 1581. In his speech of less than fifty words, which appears to resemble nothing but nonsense, there are no less than five phrases which refer directly to Edmund Campion and his 1580-81 mission to England.Richard Desper has pointed out that the mock trial scene works as a parody of the government persecution of Catholic martyrs. The playwright, he writes, demonstrates for us a world turned upside down, with clowns passing themselves off as men of learning, while men of learning &#133;are pressed to deny what they believe to be true to serve political ends. The ending is too delightful to give anything away but it reminded me of the Ingmar Bergman comedy Smiles of a Summer Night, where mismatched couples get together at a summer cottage to sort everything out. Malvolio is pitiable in trying to redeem a shred of dignity but we feel for him when he exits saying, I shall be revenged on the whole pack of you. As he leaves, he is the only person suffering in a sea of happy faces, those on screen as well as those at home. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Film","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slick Shakespeare adaptation, well acted and very humorous (in parts) in its telling. Naturally, there's always going to be some differences from stage to cinema. The film took advantage of this, of course, to avoid a stage feel. The perceptions, or rather the misperceptions, of people and motivations are well explored and portrayed. Ben Kingsley is a standout, for his interesting twist on the character Feste. In short, a good adaptation and film. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Simply the Best","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was introduced to this delight in the 10th grade during World History as an implementation of my teacher's favorite instructing method- stick in a movie and assign an outline. Dark room, people whispering or making out in the corner, dull movie this class was normally known as Nap Time, but not that day. In went the tape and out came a story full of vivacity, charm, hilarity and heart.The story is of a girl, Viola, who loses her brother and disguises herself as him to find work. She falls in love with the Duke, who has sent her to woo a countess by the name of Olivia, who has lost her brother as well. Of course, Olivia falls in love with Viola, thinking she is a young man. Viola now must reject one love because she is a woman and be rejected by another love that believes she is a man. What to do? Throw more people into the mix! Olivia, being a countess and therefore rich as anything, has no lack of other admirers from the insanely stupid Sir Andrew Aguecheeck that her uncle encourages for sport to her pious steward, Malvolio. Each person vies for her attentions while she goes insane over the one man she cannot have. Enter Sebastian, Viola's twin brother who *gasp* didn't die after all. Much confusion and laughter later, Viola is finally able to shed her masculine usurped attire and profess her love for the now-frazzled Duke. Don't worry about Olivia, she gets to keep a copy, the ever-willing Sebastian.Watching this movie the first time, I could hardly believe it was written 400 years ago. The story relates flawlessly to a modern audience. Watching it for the hundredth time after I bought it, I am still captivated by the genius adaption. The script is so funny and intertwines plot lines seamlessly. The actors actually know what they are trying to say, which is half of conveying the meaning of the difficult language. Even if I did not understand every word, I would get the meaning with help from the incredible acting.Imogene Stubbs is beautiful as Viola- she really makes a very cute, albeit effeminate boy. I felt the most for her, especially when she tells the Duke the story of her love for him under the guise of a sister. Toby Stephens as the Duke was quite handsome, and made the character more likable. If it had been another person, I would have wondered what in the world Viola saw in the whiny, fanciful man, but he was quite suave and charming.Olivia-Bonham-Carter shone as the almost bi-polar Olivia. She snapped from the pit of despair to the heights of love within a scene, but invited you to laugh with her in giddiness rather than snort in disbelief.Ben Kingsly was perfection as Feste, probably the best performance of the movie. He was a fool, but he knew it. He gave a performance of simple farce with a current of keen insight underneath.The others, Mel Smith, Imelda Staunton, Nigel Hawthorne, Richard Grant, Steven Mackintosh and Nicholas Farrell all provided excellent comedic support, tinged with the faintest hint of melancholy that brought just the right mix.Whether you're a fan of Shakespeare or not, Twelfth Night is without a doubt an amazing experience. It brings laughter, excitement and maybe even a misty eye with each viewing. Go rent it if you haven't seen it and if you have, pull it out and treat yourself tonight. I know I will. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reading other reviews of 'Twelfth Night' it is interesting to see that some people think it is a slow film and others quite fast. It gripped me from the opening gust of rain on a dark night to Feste dancing off into the sunset. Grappling with Shakespeare is a perilous activity but I thought Trevor Nunn brought out the comedy and the emotions of the story well. It is a film to make you smile at the follies of mankind but also their charm.Ben Kingsley is amazing. I've never seen Feste played that way but it seemed perfect. Imogen Stubbs does the comedy and the drama equally well. The scene with Orsino in the bathtub is a stock one but she does it beautifully, balancing the humour of the situation with the tenderness and the longing. Imelda Staunton brings unusual depth to the character of Maria. The rest of the cast are great too.The text of the play is changed around but not unnaturally so. The scene that cuts between Feste's song and Viola/Cesario and Orsino playing cards is wonderful, taking in eight of the characters and telling you more about them. The last act of the play is difficult to stage well but Nunn gives it a good shot. The Cornwall setting is lovely, the radiant sunshine, the green leaves and fine buildings are captured gorgeously by the cameras. I also liked the music very much and find some of the tunes quite hummable.Very enjoyable and worth seeing again and again.  "},{"Title":"Good looking & well acted effort at an implausible Shakespearian plot","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As with most Shakespearian comedies, the plot is deeply implausible. However, the excellent Cornish locations at St Michael's Mount & Lanhyrock give a good sense of place and the winter setting (apart from the scene of apple picking!) comes across well - it really does look like an English winter, rather than a picture postcard snow-scene.The play is cut down to a manageable length without losing the sense of it, The broad comedy aspects (Toby Belch et al) are thankfully limited.The acting is well done by a cast of British stalwarts. Amazingly, Viola and Sebastian actually do look broadly alike.This film is best viewed as an amusing light romantic comedy rather than a side-splitter. "},{"Title":"A lovely adaptation","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Trevor Nunn's adaptation of Twelfth Night is exceptionally beautiful, well acted, and emotionally engaging. Ben Kingsley's performance as the Fool stands out as magnificent, but the entire ensemble comes off very well. The film nails both the joy and the darkness of Shakespeare's play - and the play, make no mistake, contains plenty of dark and strange moments when things go, as the drunken uncle Sir Toby Belch says, Out of tune, sir. The filmmakers deserve credit for not glossing over the shades of sadism in Toby's treatment of Malvolio or the shallow fickleness of Orsino's character. The wintry Cornwall setting dovetails perfectly with the mood of the play, half sun and half shadow, and the costume design (roughly Edwardian, though I am not an expert on fashion history) creatively evokes the luxury of Orsino and Olivia's courtly world, while allowing for - even necessitating - the brilliant re-imagining of the Fool as bohemian vagabond. "},{"Title":"New Insights into a Great Play","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At one time adaptors of Shakespeare for the cinema trended to concentrate more on his tragedies and history plays rather than his comedies. The 1990s, however, saw two very fine adaptations of Shakespearean comedies, Kenneth Branagh's Much Ado about Nothing and Trevor Nunn's Twelfth Night.Twelfth Night is another name for the Feast of the Epiphany, January 6th, and the action of the play is supposed to take place around that date. Nunn, however, did not shoot this film in winter but in autumn; filming actually took place in November, but the crew were mostly lucky with the weather and the look of the countryside might suggest late September or early October. Although the setting is still officially Illyria, an old name for Croatia, Nunn effectively updates the action to Victorian England. The film was shot on location in Cornwall, with St Michael's Mount standing in for Orsino's palace and Lanhydrock for Olivia's mansion. Unlike his contemporary Marlowe in Edward II, Shakespeare never dealt directly with the subject of homosexuality, but Twelfth Night is perhaps the play in which he came closest to dealing with it by implication. The plot revolves around a curious love-triangle, A loves B, who loves C, who loves A. Orsino, Duke of Illyria, is in love with the beautiful countess Olivia. She, however, has no interest in Orsino, but has fallen for Cesario, the handsome young man whom Orsino uses as his go-between. Unknown to both Orsino and Olivia, however, the supposed Cesario is really a disguised woman, Viola- who has fallen in love with her employer. An extra complication- and a possible solution to the problem- arises when Viola's identical twin brother Sebastian, whom she previously believed to be dead, arrives on the scene. (Yes, I know that in reality you cannot have identical opposite-sex twins, but Shakespearean comedies are not noted for their strict realism). The lesbian overtones to the Olivia/Viola relationship would probably have been rather muted in Shakespeare's day when all female roles would have been played by boys, but here Helena Bonham-Carter and Imogen Stubbs (the director's wife) make the most of them. Even with the assistance of a quasi-military uniform and a false moustache, the lovely Imogen never looks particularly masculine, so there is an implication that Olivia has fallen for someone she consciously believes to be male but subconsciously knows to be female. The gay overtones to the relationship between Toby Stephens' Orsino and Cesario, and to that between Sebastian and Antonio, the sea-captain who has befriended him, are perhaps even stronger. Certainly, Orsino's conversations with Cesario seem remarkably intimate if he really does believe his young companion to be male.Along with the likes of Much Ado&#x85; and As You Like It, Twelfth Night is sometimes described as a joyous comedy in contradistinction to more problematic comedies like Measure for Measure and All's Well that Ends Well. It does, however, have its darker side; several characters, for example, have recently suffered bereavement, or believe themselves to have done so, and this production tends to stress the darkness underlying the play. The autumnal setting contributes to this feeling, as does the fact that most of the characters are seen dressed in black.The dark overtones are particularly pronounced in the sub-plot involving Olivia's steward, Malvolio. He is sometimes played simply as a narrow- minded Puritan and his adversary Sir Toby as a jovial, lovable old man whose only concern is to have his cakes and ale. For Nunn, however, matters are not so simple. Nigel Hawthorne's Malvolio- the one character for whom there is no happy ending- is an essentially tragic figure, a dignified and dedicated servant who is tricked into making a fool of himself by a gang of people who have taken an irrational dislike to him. His name is derived from the Italian for ill will, yet its significance here may be that Malvolio is not so much the perpetrator of malice as the victim of the malice of others. There is an excellent performance from Mel Smith, better known as a television comedian, as Sir Toby. Smith brings out both the nastiness and the sadness which lie at the heart of his character. Sir Toby is a man of wealth and noble family (he is Olivia's uncle) who has spent his whole life in feasting, drinking and womanising and who has a fondness for cruel practical jokes; besides his tricking of Malvolio he dupes his friend Andrew Aguecheek and Cesario into fighting a duel. (Both acquit themselves surprisingly well, given that one is really a woman and the other an arrant coward). Yet there is also an implied sadness about Smith's characterisation; Toby knows that his life has been a wasted one, but feels that it is too late to amend.Besides Hawthorne and Smith there are too many good contributions to single them all out individually. I must, however, mention Stubbs, who is able to suggest both a male persona and the underlying woman, and Ben Kingsley as Olivia's jester Feste, whom he plays less as a clown than as a sardonic old philosopher, an eccentric but also a man gifted with penetrating insights into human life. Twelfth Night is one of Shakespeare's best-known comedies, and like all well-known Shakespeare plays it has become very familiar in the theatre. A good director, however, whether in the theatre or on screen, will always be able to find something new to say about it, and that is what Nunn has done here. He and his cast have found new insights into this great play, enabling us to see it with new eyes. An excellent production. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Twelfth Night","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gender fluidity, a love square, and Shakespeare; what more can one ask for in a movie? Twelfth Night is an adaptation of Shakespeare's play of the same name. This version, directed by Trevor Nunn in 1996 starred Imogen Stubbs, Steven Mackintosh, Ben Kingsley, and Helena Bonham Carter. Exploring such issues as the uncertainty of gender and the curse of love, the bard never shied away from a heavy story. Twelfth Night is a film with a beautiful production design accompanying Shakespeare's well-known prose, making the film an enjoyable journey for audiences of all ages. Washed to shore after a shipwreck, aristocrat Viola (Imogen Stubbs) longs to be reunited with the brother she was separated with at sea. While attempting to navigate the new land she has been washed upon, Viola is devastated with the assumption that her brother has perished at sea. She now finds herself alone and in unfamiliar territory. Without her brother Sebastian(Steven Mackintosh), Viola must find a way to work and fend for herself. Once hearing about a Lady Olivia (Helena Bonham Carter), who is mourning the loss of her brother, Viola feels a kinship and wishes to work in Lady Olivia's home. She learns, however, that Lady Olivia is not talking to strangers and is in deep mourning over the loss of her brother. Viola then learns that a nobleman, Count Orsino lies around listening to music all day, hopelessly in love with Lady Olivia. Viola decides to dress up as a man and work in the Count's home as a way to gain proximity to Lady Olivia. Viola's life becomes complicated when she falls for Count Orsino, Count Orsino refuses to abandon his love of Lady Olivia, and Lady Olivia falls for Cesario, the name Viola adopted when she began her life as a man. The curse of love plagues all in this Shakespeare classic, and seeing the journey unfold on-screen is certainly a treat for audiences.The first hour of this film moves incredibly slow. Having such an interesting plot, and many subplots within, I did not anticipate pacing being an issue for this film, but it certainly was. The production design was beautiful and the castles in which Lady Olivia and Count Orsino lived were beautifully done. A period piece such as this one depends upon its production design to be able to transform the audience into another place and time, and Trevor Nunn obviously knew that quite well. Nunn obviously took painstaking measures to create a realism to his film that cannot be ignored. Perhaps it was his dedication to realism that dragged on the first half of the film with endless shots of the sets being used. Whatever the issue, the sets were beautiful. The film was comprised of mostly British actors, which is always a treat for this film buff. By in large, British actors bring a sense of regalness to the roles they take, which is especially important when tackling Shakespeare. There was also wonderful music sprinkled throughout Twelfth Night. Oftentimes, especially throughout the first hour of the film, the music and acting were the only bright spots moving the film along. Another treat was being introduced to Helena Bonham Carter. I had never before seen a film starring the actress and only knew her as being romantically linked to director Tim Burton, so I was never sure what to expect from her. I was pleasantly surprised by her range on screen. She played the mourning, yet playful sister quite well. Bonham Carter also had no issue playing the love-struck yet hard to get Lady Olivia. Playing these opposites off each other so well gave me a new respect for the actress. Twelfth Night goes to great depth to explore the limits of gender. Gender is, without question, the most obvious theme throughout the film, as it explores the sexual confusion created when Viola dresses up as a man. Meanwhile; while trying to gain access to Lady Olivia for herself, all the while working for Count Orsino in attempts to convince Lady Olivia to love him, Viola falls in love with Orsino herself. This love must remain a secret because no one knows Viola's true identity as a woman. Shakespeare doesn't do much to clear up this confusion, even by the play's close. Count Orsino seems to enjoy loving Viola while she is still exhibiting masculinity. It is left as a mystery whether or not Orsino loves Viola or her masculine persona. Another withstanding theme throughout the film is the burden of love. No one that loves someone is happy in this romantic comedy. Love seems to wage a war within each individual that experiences it on-screen, rather than the happy life-fulfilling emotion we are more comfortable describing it as. Whether the ending leaves you feeling like love conquers all, or love is for the birds, Shakespeare's romantic comedy is one that has endured. "},{"Title":"What You Will...Watch It.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Twelfth Night or What You Will (1996) Dir Trevor Nunn / Cast Imogen Stubbs, Helena Bonham Carter, Ben Kingsley, Nigel Hawthorne, Tobey Stephens Art house film with stunning photography and tremendous art direction. Based upon William Shakespeare's comedy about mistaken identities when a shipwreck separates a brother and sister. When ashore they discover the Duke's court. Imogen Stubbs dons a fake moustache and a uniform to resemble a male. When her brother ventures for the court Stubbs has difficulty maintaining her dignity especially when Helena Bonham Carter mistakes her for the man she loves. Hilarious outcome voices how foolish we can appear through circumstance. Director Trevor Nunn has fun with the humour while Stubbs is funny but hardly passes as a male. Carter is hilarious in a lustful supporting role. Ben Kingsley is charming as a travelling musician who is able to make sense of it all through observation. Nigel Hawthorne is hilarious particularly when he realizes that he is the victim of a bad prank. Tobey Stephens heads one of the courts that Stubbs plays off as naïve until the truth unravels and humiliation sets in. Whether tragedy or comedy Shakespeare provoke us with both but here the adaptation is one of the best looking and funniest of the comedies. Here is a worthwhile Shakespearean comedy about the fool in us all. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Great cast headlining a Shakespeare rom com","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm no big fan of Shakespeare's comedies, much preferring his darker fare like the tragedies, but TWELFTH NIGHT is a riotous film brought ably to life by theatre director Trevor Nunn. He assembles a cast of seasoned professionals who turn the material into something special, despite the lengthy running time. Shakespeare's story of mistaken identity and the attempts of numerous suitors attempting to woo a countess is certainly a fast-paced and chaotic affair.Helena Bonham Carter headlines the cast in a decent early role, and she's supported by the likes of Nigel Hawthorne, Toby Stephens, and Nicholas Farrell. The most fun comes from the likes of Richard E. Grant and Mel Smith playing ridiculously slapstick characters, although the scene-stealer here is Ben Kingsley as the fool. The production is colourful and vibrant, and my only complaint is the 19th century setting, which sits at odds with the source material. I've never really got the need to contemporise classic works like this. "},{"Title":"A much better film adaption of a Shakespeare classic","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After having watched a movie about twins I sit down and write a rant about another movie, based on a Shakespearian play, which is about twins. However, while the confusion and the comic element of mistaking identical twins does arise at the end, the fact that the main character is one of a twin only becomes relevant at the end. The comic element of the main plot (as opposed to the plot involving Malvolio) regards a woman disguising herself as a man and becoming the servant of Duke Orsino, and when she becomes his confidant, she falls in love with him, but cannot respond without giving away who she really is.The play that I read in university was As You Like It, and this play is sort of a mix between As You Like It and Comedy of Errors. The heroine, Viola, is shipwrecked on the coast of Illyria and decides to disguise herself as a man for her own protection (nothing to do with transgender desires as some want to put it). While in service to the Duke, he gets Viola to attempt to court Olivia however Olivia (who also believes that Viola is a man) falls in love with him. This gets even more twisted when Sebastian, Viola's twin brother, arrives and Olivia, believing him to be Viola, marries him.This particular version of the play is well done, though there are a lot of additions, and the scenes are changed about to make it flow better on the screen. I should not suggest that the creators decided to add to Shakespeare as the only additional dialogue is at the beginning where the scene is set. However scenes are moved and merged to make the play more adaptable to the big screen, The main tension is between Orsino, who is in love with Olivia, and Viola, and then there is Olivia who is in love with Viola, who does not realise (as does Orsina) that Viola is a woman. It appears that the clown does, but if he does, he is not letting on. The play climaxes with Sebastian and Viola reuniting, and Malvolio being released.One should mention the Malvolio subplot though. While all of the romantic action is going on, Sir Toby Belch (Olivia's uncle), Sir Andrew (a suitor), the clown and some servants, become rather irritated at Malvolio's seriousness, so they decided to trick him into believing that Olivia is in love with him. When he makes a fool of himself in front of Olivia, he is cast into a dungeon, pleading his innocence and his sanity, while the conspirators laugh at his misfortune. I felt sorry of Malvolio because he didn't do anything wrong, and not only was he tricked, but it appears that the tricksters get away with it.Finally, I wish to note that while Shakespeare deals a lot with romantic love, I wondered whether there were ever incidents of characters marrying below their status. It happens here since Sebastian and Viola are both orphans, and they end up marrying the duke and the lady. "},{"Title":"Dark and humorless with some redeeming scenes and performances","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As frequently happens with Twelfth Night, the director and screen writers extensively revamped Shakespeare's script. The concept, of a nineteenth century wartime background, is not inconsistent with the play, but costuming, lighting and cinematography combined to make many scenes excessively dark, almost soupy. The comedians, Sir Toby Belch and Sir Andrew Aguecheek, were decidedly unamusing throughout most of their scenes. Ben Kingsley is unexpected as Feste, the jester, but provided a quality performance although not a sprightly one. Bright spots came from the interaction of Cesario and Orsino, and a bright performance by Helena Bonham Carter as Olivia, who played mournful sister, besotted lover and imperious noblewoman with equal brilliance. Her reaction shots when the existence of the twins comes out in (the play's) Act V Scene 2 raised the production single-handedly from a mediocrity to an reasonably good show. In all, this is the best Twelfth Night currently available. The problems are all in the production end, while the performances are, if not always great, certainly up to what should be expected of a fine - if sometimes inappropriate - cast. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, yes...but too much realism, for this play anyways","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are several good reasons to spend an evening with this production of a standard Shakespearean tale of gender confusion and romantic comedy. The lush scenery and attention to period detail, top-notch performances, and Ben Kingsley's rightly acclaimed turn as Feste, the wise and knowing Fool.Nonetheless, the move from play to the big screen has its drawbacks, foremost among which are the great suspension of disbelief the viewer must attempt when Viola is taken seriously as a man, and still moreso when brother and sister, essentially unchanged in appearance, do not immediately recognize each other. Suspension of disbelief is more commonly expected in a stage production, where the circumstances of the confined surroundings necessitate empathetic participation of the audience. In cinema, however, such constraints are generally not present, and standards are correspondingly higher. But if the screenplay includes elements that demand audience empathy, as is the case here, the production will fare badly at just those places.Hamlet and other more serious works in the Shakespearean canon have few such elements. Plays such as TN, of a more playful nature and which revolve around improbable plot elements, will bear up less well under the close scrutiny of big-screen cinema. "},{"Title":"Holds up well","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Viola and her twin brother Sebastian are divided and both believe the other to be dead. On unfriendly land, she has to become a servant to Orsini, whom she falls for. To work for him, she has to dress up like a boy(thus commenting on the differences between the genders, and how we relate to the same or the opposite sex). And he wants to be with Olivia, who can't imagine being with her(who she thinks is male), when he sends her to court her. Confused? Then I won't go into the subplots. There is enough unrequited love to go around, and that situation is described well. This is kept in Shakespeare's language(with all it's delicious constructions, several of which have become common sayings today), and whilst I have not read the original play and thus cannot say with absolute certainty, it would appear that the story is intact as far as the roughly two hour running time would allow. Nothing set up is denied pay-off. The jokes and gags are obviously aged, as humor has gone through immense changes over time. However, drunkenness and mix-ups are the basis of a lot of them, and those remain sources of laughter today. The prank played on Malvolio seems harsh and uncalled for today, or at least, by some standards. Fine, by those of mine and my girlfriend, then. The characters are memorable and distinct, in spite of there being about a dozen. Dialog is amazing. The acting is great, and a lot of the funniest moments come from this aspect(Imogen Stubbs in particular). Pacing is reasonable. The editing is well-done, interweaving parallel scenes with one another to strong effect. Whether this is true to the source material, I could not say. This is slightly visual, if the filming is never above average(and at times clumsy). I find the best adaptations of this sort are the ones most based on the verbal content, and that does tend to be the approach here. I recommend this to fans of the excellent writer's comedies. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A more than worthy Twelfth Night","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have been reading and loving Shakespeare since year 6 of primary school. At first I didn't understand the language, but the many discussions we had about it while reading aloud improved my understanding and didn't waver my interest. Twelfth Night mayn't have the most plausible story of all the Shakespeare plays, but it is still a lot of fun.This Twelfth Night is more than worthy. It is not thr best Shakespeare film, not like Othello, Henry V, Much Ado About Nothing and Hamlet, but it does boast a strong cast and impeccable production values.If I had any criticisms against this Twelfth Night, they would be that as well shot and as interesting as the beginning scene was, part of me found it unnecessary compared to the rest of the film and it didn't add much to the storytelling, and also it did feel a little sugar-coated towards the end.Criticisms aside, this is a very beautiful-looking Twelfth Night, with the luscious photography, autumnal imagery and scenery and colourful, sumptuous costumes. The music is full of memorable tunes that also do well to enhance each scene.Trevor Nunn's direction is excellent, the dialogue is intelligently woven and delivered, the story while condensed still maintains the play's fun and spirit, all the relationships are intact and done convincingly and the pace is smart and snappy.The acting is just great. Toby Stephens deserves credit for breathing life to Orsino, when he could easily have been bland and Imogen Stubbs is radiant. In the more comic roles, Malvolio, Sir Andrew and especially Sir Toby are hoots, and Imelda Staunton is a memorable Maria. My favourites here are Helena Bonham Carter and Ben Kingsley as Olivia and Feste, Carter is note perfect and Kingsley gives perhaps his best ever support turn.All in all, a lot of fun and very worthy. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"More romance than comedy","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an intelligent, but oddly unbalanced production. The strength of the major romantic characters - Orsino, Viola, Olivia and an outstanding Sebastian - was undermined by the weakness of the comic roles. Toby and Andrew were neither funny nor darkly sad. And that left a potentially fine Malvolio rather stranded, and allowed Feste to steal the show. The film is well worth seeing - but how one longs for Ralph Richardson!  "},{"Title":"And why not?","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Those who complain about the fact that watching films of Shakespeare is not, in their eyes, as good as reading him are rather missing the point Shakespeare wrote plays. Plays intended to be watched, not read. Admittedly, Elizabethan theatre and C.20th/21st cinema are completely different beasts and the transplant of a work from one to the other needs to be handled very carefully. This is quite a good film. The cast are good, the choice of which parts would and would not work in film was (usually) good and the soundtrack is quite nice, although certain liberties have been taken with the lyrics that Shakespeare included in the play. Nigel Hawthorne does overact, but then, the play is a farce and Malvolio a comedy villain of sorts. Heaven help us when comedy baddies no longer overact. The sets are good, although parts of Illyria seem to bear a striking resemblance to well-known landmarks in Cornwall, and the damp look to the outdoor shots adds a certain something to the really rather bleak situation in which Viola finds herself. Overall, this film is, well, nice; it won't set the world alight , but it is an enjoyable diversion, best watched with a mug of tea on a rainy afternoon, made all the more pleasant by the total absence of Leonardo DiCaprio and lamentable Hollywood directors who can't create drama without a riot of flashing lights and sirens.  "}{"Title":"warm and witty adaptation","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Put Imogen Stubbs and Helena Bonham-Carter together as Viola/Cesario and Olivia, add Toby Stephens (Orsino), Mel Smith (Toby Belch), Richard E Grant (Andrew Aguecheek), Imelda Staunton (Maria), Nigel Hawthorne (Malvolio), and Ben Kingsley (Feste) to the mix - and Trevor Nunn's bright and witty film couldn't fail.  It moves along at a cracking pace and is helped by Shaun Davey's score which gives new life to Shakespeare songs The Wind and the Rain, and O Mistress Mine.  Steven Mackintosh plays the lost twin, and is also effective in his small role, as is Nicholas Farrell as his friend and rescuer. "},{"Title":"handsome, poignant, a bit joyless","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though filmed for the most part in picturesque, sun-drenched Cornish exteriors, this is a rather sombre, steady account of Shakespeare's great, complex play.  At times it's genuinely touching, but very rarely funny Trevor Nunn's direction pitches it rather more as a BBC-esque costume drama than a comedy.  Ben Kingsley can't sing but is nonetheless a charismatic, intriguing Feste; Nigel Hawthorne is particularly effective in Malvolio's final scenes, somewhere close to Madness of King George territory, while Imogen Stubbs is an engaging Viola (and reasonably credible Cesario) throughout.  Imelda Staunton's Maria stands out too she gives the impression of being  the only remotely level-headed person in Illyria, and her understated distancing of herself from  the plot against Malvolio as it becomes crueller is nicely observed.  Nunn's direction could do with more subtle touches like that - and it could also do with rather more wit and lightness to offset the prevailing melancholy.  Cinema is rather cruel to the Renaissance stage conceit that identical twins really do appear identical.  And perhaps there are other, specifically theatrical artificialities about Twelfth Night that don't translate naturally to the screen - like its whole plot, for example.  Overall, a serious, honourable but not inspired attempt. "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy about cross-dressing and mistaken identity","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a graceful, charming, gorgeous-looking version in fairy-tale  Edwardian dress,  with lots of lovely indoor and outdoor shots.   Imogen  Stubbs is attractive and feisty as Viola/Cesario, Ben Kingsley delivers a  complex and intriguing performance as the fool Feste, and Helena Bonham -Carter is a warm, humorous and devastatingly beautiful Olivia.   The  supporting cast is funny and lively, the schticks all work, and the  ornamental garden deserves star billing. "},{"Title":"Why was this story transposed to a totally inappropriate era?","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It may be that since I have become older my hearing has deteriorated, or that my TV set needs replacing, or that the cable signal here is below par; but, for many dramatic works on TV, I now consistently find difficulty in following the dialogue. When this happens I usually attribute it to poor diction by the cast members. This would be very difficult to do in the case of Twelfth Night which has a uniformly excellent cast. Nevertheless my experience is that this problem is always exacerbated during the performance of any classic work which has been significantly transposed in either space of time, and I therefore do not generally enthuse about productions featuring Shakespearean plays as contemporary works. This film of Twelfth Night is actually set in the nineteenth century, and is also geographically transposed from Illyria to what is clearly Cornwall. Unfortunately I personally found this to be even more confusing than a completely contemporary performance. With Shakespeare in modern dress, one must accept the cast travelling by automobile or aeroplane and using modern electronic equipment, but here we have a period piece where the sixteenth century dialogue is spoken by actors in nineteenth century attire and interspersed by the playing of modern musical instruments and games, the use of period firearms, the riding of bicycles, and travel by stagecoach. For me such changes created great incongruities which destroyed the illusion of reality that all dramatic works have to try to create, and thus made the plot even more difficult to follow. So I am sorry but I cannot share the enthusiasm of many other viewers whose comments are recorded here.That said, I must acknowledge that the performances are outstanding and the play flows in a way which many more traditional versions do not. Twelfth Night is one of Shakespeare's finest plays, with many complex characters who can constantly surprise the audience without in any way derailing the ongoing comedy, and this makes the play a joy to watch. Unfortunately only too often this comedy is reduced to near slapstick, which completely hides the depth Shakespeare wrote into most of the characters he created. Nunn's presentation is one of the best I have seen for gradually revealing these unexpected facets of character as his (greatly shortened) play develops. The longer I watched it the more at home I felt, and the nearer I came to at last being drawn into the performance. I can readily understand that those who do not share the reservations I have expressed above would be likely to rate this film very highly. In particular the performances of Ben Kingsley as Feste and of Helen Bonham Carter as Olivia are of award winning quality. The photography is also delightful, and the film shows none of the blips in continuity that so often take place when a heavily cut play by Shakespeare is filmed. Overall I have rated this film at 5 stars; but readers of these comments should recognise that I would have liked to give it a higher rating if only I had been able to forget occasionally that I was watching actors playing rather strange and hybrid parts. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Ponderous","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I beg to differ from the other User Comments. My family likes Shakespeare and we all agreed that this was one of the WORST adaptations we've seen! True the sets and photography were lovely, but the pacing was excruciatingly slow. In my opinion, the secret to a successful production of a Shakespeare comedy, at least for a modern audience, lies in rapid-fire delivery of the lines with a sense of tongue-in-cheek. Otherwise,  the audience is given too much opportunity to realize just how ridiculous and implausible the plot really is.  In this production, the lines seem to be dragged out to their ultimate limit, with lots of pauses in between. While I think that Shakespeare's comedies are more  difficult to interpret on film than his tragedies, there have been some successes. Kenneth Branagh's `Much Ado  About Nothing' and Franco Zefferelli's `Taming of the  Shrew' come to mind. Even Peter Hoffman's recent `A  Midsummer Night Dream', despite some casting  mistakes, was better than this. Helena Bonham-Carter's considerable talents are wasted in the production, as I suspect are those of the other actors, with whom I am less familiar. None of them seem be  having any fun. It's hard to believe that such an experienced Shakespearean director could have missed the mark so  badly. I've seen a production by kids aged 9-14 that had a lot more energy than this!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but flawed","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The photography on this movie is great, and a lot of the acting is great -- but some of the scenes get very heavy-handed (it's supposed to be a comedy, but somebody's crying every 10 minutes...) and grim which distracts from the flow of the movie and is unnecessary. "},{"Title":"Lively","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A lively, bubbly production of one of Shakespeare's more difficult plays. It's hard to know just what Shakespeare was getting at with this story. The text doesn't always seem to make sense. That's reflected in this, as well as any other, production. At times, one wonders what the expressions on characters' faces are meant to indicate. Just after Feste has fooled Malvolio with his imitation of the curate, for instance, Maria has a perturbed look on her face. As if the joke that she herself so elaborately designed now troubles her. There's nothing in the text to indicate that her expression should show remorse; and yet Sir Toby soon after says that he's sick of the whole thing. Why? That's one example of the difficulty of the text (which may have been corrupted over the centuries), and how it is manifested in this particular production's choices. I don't know why Sir Toby remarks at this point that he's sick of the joke, nor do I know whether Maria should share his feelings.Another difficulty is the role of Feste. Ben Kingsley fills this role, and because Ben Kingsley is a major star, he magnifies this character (in my opinion) out of all proportion. He becomes a sort of Zen master, pompous and oppressive. His jokes aren't funny (maybe we can't find Shakespeare's jokes funny today, but Kingsley's heavy delivery precludes humor), and his last confrontation with Malvolio comes off as a sort of thundering divine retribution. The entire play, the entire cast, stops dead and Feste takes over as if the whole point of the play has been his apotheosis at the expense of the degraded Malvolio. This surely cannot be what Shakespeare had in mind. Throughout the play he has a disconcerting habit of staring at other characters or the camera with what almost be described as a leer.Maybe Shakespeare would have sighed and commiserated with the producer of this film, because the clowns in his day were also big stars who demanded a lot of meat in their roles. The trouble is that there just isn't much meat in Feste's role according to the text, so we're stuck with leers and thundering retribution and other inventions. Shakespeare had to accommodate his clowns with ever-more important roles, climaxing with characters like Touchstone and Lear's fool. Kingsley is just inventing his own character. At times his work is interesting, but his weight in the production is, as I said, oppressive.Still, his screen time is relatively small, and much of the rest of the play is a joy, even if the point of the story isn't always clear. Bonham-Carter was never more alluring, Hawthorne is priceless as Malvolio (he was born for the role), and Smith and Grant are the perfect combination of Belch and Aguecheek. I suppose you might object that all four of them put their eyebrows to such prodigious use that their acting might be characterized as hamming. But I don't see how any of these characters can be played straight if the play is to work.One thing is for sure, no one would ever accuse this production of bogging down. The pace is lively, the sets and the cinematography are always striking, the score is invigorating, and I suspect that I could watch this film dubbed in Swahili and it would still be a lot of fun. Visually arresting is perhaps the best description. "},{"Title":"Sparkling comedy transformed into a ponderous bore","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In writing Twelfth Night (and the same goes for many other of his romantic comedies), Shakespeare showed that he was not only a genius at dark tragedy but also at light comedy. I saw a junior college production of this play which did live up to Shakespeare's intentions, which was in fact so funny I was falling off my chair. Unfortunately, director Nunn will not allow a hilarious slapstick comedy to just be a hilarious slapstick comedy. Apparently he succumbed to the notion that everything Shakespearean has somehow to seem profound, which in this case results in an attempt to transfer this light, sparkling comedy, full of deliberately overdrawn characters and silly lines and pratfalls, into a brooding tragedy in which pompous ass Malvolio acts as if he were, or imagined himself to be, Hamlet caught in the wrong play, while clown Feste is misanthropic to the point of sadism. There is no suggestion of comic timing anywhere in this film! It appears that once Nunn decided to insist on a modern-dress version, he adopted as his mentor the let's-portray-the-messed-up-dysfunctional-household school. This is stupid. A better mentor would have been a closer modern equivalent of what Shakespeare was doing in this play. Something like I Love Lucy or Amos 'n' Andy or The Honeymooners, in other words. One thing that entirely puzzles me is why the devil didn't Nunn exploit the particular advantages of the cinema in depicting this gender-bender story of a girl impersonating a look-alike boy? Why in sam hill didn't Nunn have a male actor who is skilled at female impersonation, or an actress skilled at impersonating males, play both roles on a split screen? (See, for the sort of impersonation I refer to, Vanessa Redgrave as the trans-sexual tennis player in Second Serve.) In other words Why transform a stage play into a film at all, if you're not going to put the advantages of the cinema, as opposed to those of the stage, to work? Nunn's treatment of this play is not only a mangled interpretation, it's unimaginative.Ben Kingsley is the only performer who does very much with his part, and what he does he does very well. His acting creates a very interesting character, and his interpretation of Feste is certainly consistent, but it receives no support whatsoever from the text. "},{"Title":"A pretty corpse; the herd is wrong.","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If Shakespeare were this dead, we'd all be reading Ben Jonson instead.Pretty pictures and big names don't guarantee the illusion of life.We need people to move, to have energy, to make us care about what happens to them. It's a comedy, remember? This was more like a glossy coffee-table picture book of fabulous house interiors. An uninhabited house.Shakespeare wrote a whole raft of interesting people.I wanted to get interested in these people up there on the screen, but they were all on life-support, like a group coma punctuated by an occasional wake.O for a muse of fire! Or at least a director with some. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Well Cast, A Swollen, Ponderous Dud......","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In one of the DVD extras, a producer praises director Trevor Nunn as knowing more about Shakespeare than any man in England. (Not true, it's John Barton. But that's another story.) Unfortunately, Nunn attempts to demonstrate his erudition in this beautifully photographed, somewhat medicinal misfire. In an attempt to serve up Shakespeare to everyone, he's bogged himself down in self-conscious paralysis. Despite the beautiful images and the star-studded cast, this is an airless, spineless lump.Imogen Stubbs (Mrs. Nunn) is quite fine as Viola, and Richard E. Grant maintains great energy as Sir Andrew Aguecheek. Just about everybody else is sabotaged by a leaden pace and a heavy directorial hand. Nigel Hawthorne's Malvolio is destroyed by the glacial tempo, and Helena Bonham Carter's charm wilts at half speed.Mel Smith is beautifully cast as Sir Toby Belch, but is also just too darn slow. In a major miscalculation, Ben Kingsley's plays Feste as a menacing ex-con, perhaps Abel Magwitch strayed in from Great Expectations. This is a Killer Klown from Kornwall.And in order to keep things this sluggish, at least a third of the text of the play is missing. It's the language that makes Shakespeare immortal, not the plots. Bad idea....Oddly enough, in group scenes, actors often lose character, just standing around staring blankly at whoever is talking. You never see this in films, and you shouldn't. It should never happen.There is a 1969 ITV version circulating with Sir Alec Guinness as Malvolio and Sir Ralph Richardson as Sir Toby Belch to remind us of how far we haven't come.But best of all is the 1980 BBC DVD with Felicity Kendall, Sinead Cusack, Alec McCowen, Robert Hardy and Robert Lindsay. That Twelfth Night is an ensemble delight from beginning to end, with a full text and virtually flawless in engaging the play successfully on every level at once. Run, don't walk. It's a genuine treat. "}{"Title":"I loved it, although there could have been improvements","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt this version of the Twelfth Night was one of the most engaging films I've seen in a long time.  The acting by Imogen Stubbs was absolutely perfect.  She had just the right amount of energy without eating up the scenery.  Plus, I think she looks pretty good as a dude! D I think she stole the show, but the other actors certainly lived their role, and, even though the plotline of the story was interesting in itself, their efforts caused me to actually care about what's going on.  The love connections in the story seemed to be the main focus, although the parallel plot also had its role.  The relationship that develops between Orsino and Cesario is probably the most fascinating.  A certain scene (which I will not spoil, but occurs as Act 2.4) was an unconventional yet successful way to add dimension and depth to said persons' relationship.I give abounding credit to Trevor Nunn, for it is difficult to adapt plays to the big screen and have it be as captivating as if you were reading the story or watching the play.  Nunn overall works well with the many options presented with film.  The pacing, I felt, was a little slow, but the plot twists were often enough to keep one's interest.My true vice about this movie was at the end, or Act 5 if one has read it. I felt the entire scene lacked so much energy, energy that would have pushed this movie from above average into the worship category.  I read the play before watching this, and firstly, Orsino seems to me much angrier in writing than portrayed.  I don't fault Toby Stephens entirely, because Orsino's lines were severely transposed and abridged, and crucial lines were left out, such asI'll sacrifice the lamb that I do love, to spite the raven's heart within a dove.I did not hear this line uttered, and the rhyme is supposed to emphasize its import, if I am not mistaken.  I think Stephens did a decent job overall, though, even with Orsino's murdered tirades.  Cersario's/Viola's lines were also mangled and with less energy than I would have liked to see as well. Again I do not fault Stubbs, for she was terrific anyway.  This scene was supposed to be the peak of the story, but it ended up being only a gentle slope.  This scene would have made this film adaptation history if not for its climactic weakness.  Sad really.All in all, however, this was a beautiful rendition of a intriguing play, but a stronger scene 5 could have made it an example to all Shakespearean directors.  If you want to see something fun and out of the ordinary, though, you'll find this cute little gem a fast-acting remedy to a dull Friday night.   "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but a little lacking in energy and suffering from a lack of balance","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very pleasant production of one of my favourite Shakespeare plays. It seems to me, however, that it suffers from a distinct lack of pacing which renders the main plot a little laboured and utterly undermines the comedic sub-plot.The problem, for me, lies in the direction, and script editing, by Mr. Nunn. The energy that one associates with a stage production was strangely lacking.  I have no diffculty with the emphasis that has been placed on the main characters of Viola/Caesario, Orsino and Olivia.  That story is, though, a little too bland to carry the entire play.   The comedic sub-plot involving Sir Toby, Sir Andrew, Maria and Fabian is an essential, earthy counter balance to the rather airy-fairy love triangle.The parts of Feste and Malvolio straddle both the main plot and the comedic sub-plot and it is no surprise therefore that these characters, wonderfully played by Ben Kingsley and Nigel Hawthorne, are the most effectively realised.Imelda Staunton was excellent in the role of Maria but Mr. Nunn failed Mel Smith and Richard E. Grant in the roles of Toby and Andrew.Imogen Stubbs and Helena Bonham Carter were both very good (and delightfully easy on the eye), while I also liked Toby Stephens very much as the sexually ambiguous Duke.Any Shakespeare is worth watching, and this is no exception.  It is such a pity however that it lacks the energy of a stage performance, and the balance that would have been created by paying more attention to the comedic sub-plot. "},{"Title":"well done translation from stage to film","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, Kenneth Branagh's `Much Ado About Nothing' and Franco Zefferelli's `Taming of the Shrew' stand out in my mind as good examples of how Shakespeare's work can be brought to film.True, there were changes from the original, but the film is not a stage, and the expanded ability of film technology allows for enhancements in story flow that are not possible to do smoothly on the stage.Imogene Stubbs is a truly fine example of the female form, yet she is able to do an amazing job of portraying a young lad. I am looking forward to seeing more of her work.Early in the movie malvolio treats feste disrespectfully, and at the end of the movie feste comments on that rudeness, seemingly to imply that malvolio may have suffered some or all of his torment because of his earlier callousness. Maybe I just cheer for the underdog too often, but liked that touch.I have in the past, and will in the future recommend this film and the other two I mentioned here to people that have not seen them. Not only are they good examples of classic art in our modern world, but they are fun movies to watch.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Romantic-Comedies I've ever seen","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was Shakespeare adaptation at its best.  Helena Bonham Carter and Imogen Stubbs were amazing but I have to say Toby Stephens stole the show for me.  His portrayal of the love-sick Count was completely believable and his growing feelings for Viola were subtly expressed.  This versions emphasis on the ambiguity of the character's sexuality brought an extra element to the play.  A production guaranteed to leave you smiling! "},{"Title":"Neat, pretty, fun","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately, modern day theatre people are still subject tothe whims of Shakespeare; a play that could have done very wellless three or four characters (read Malvolio, Augecheek) isalways mangled because more emphasis ends up on the foolish exploits of a drunken uncle and a stuck-up servant than on thelove and pain and all that stuff Shakespeare should have stuckto (because his attempts at comedy fail in my eyes).   Fortunately, enter the camera, just in time  to rescue TwelfthNight from itself.  By flipping back and forth in that spasticway films can, the movie managed to put the emphasis back on thelove between brother and sister (which is always lacking instage productions) and  Viola's relationship with Orceno andwith Olivia.  Also, the reworked character of The Fool is fun(despite Ben Kingsely's mediocre singing voice), and adds thenecessary atmosphere to let you leave the movie humm "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The success of this flick comes down to three things  solid acting (Stubbs and Carter really stand out, as does Ben Kingsley; the rest of the cast deserves a warm round of applause as well), competent direction and great technical work (costumes, sets, photography).  The ending is in the feel-good mode, but it doesn't ruin your enjoyment.  If you're tired of all the usual stuff, rent this one for a change.       "},{"Title":"I don't usually like Shakespeare but I liked this ... a lot.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm hard of understanding. I hear all of the sounds but I don't hear them clearly. This makes watching Shakespeare difficult because I can't follow the dialogue. But I really enjoyed this movie. It features a wonderful cast, not a ringer among them. There's tragedy, adventure, comedy, romance, slapstick, intrigue, beautiful photography and people and costumes, and best of all you don't need to understand every word. Just sit back and let it roll over you. "},{"Title":"Read the play!","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Briefly stated, this is a good movie. However I am a stalwart fan of Shakespeare and do not consider this the best film made of his plays. As compared to the play itself, the movie is far inferior, but still quite enjoyable. I was a trifle disappointed when I saw it for the first time, with the anticipations of its general good reviews and also what I had loved from the book. The acted dialog does not flow as well as some Shakespeare films (such as Much Ado About Nothing with Kenneth Branagh, which is a personal favorite) and it took me a few viewings to be able to appreciate this Twelfth Night movie as well as I do now. I think they could have done better for Orsino. Although he does his acting well enough, his character is not very well defined in my opinion. Viola's feelings toward him are hardly distinguishable, as much dialog seems to have been cut out. Malvolio was probably my worst disappointment. As well as an odd statue the movie-makers chose for a prop. Feste the clown, played by Ben Kingsley, is quite entertaining and expressive, and perhaps one of the best characters in the film. I suppose the best advice I can give is to read it before you denounce this superb comedy by Shakespeare. Use the play as a foundation and the film as an addition; not the other way around. And watch the movie a few times at least if you want to grasp the most of the cunning dialog and subtle humor. "},{"Title":"Bravos for Imogen Stubbs!","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I admit I'm no expert on Shakespeare and I'd never read 'Twelfth Night' before seeing this film, so I found it a little difficult to follow. For instance, I could never quite figure out the role of Ben Kingsley's character. I didn't find this film as accessible as two other Shakespeare adaptations which appeared near the same time, Kenneth Branagh's 'Hamlet' or 'Richard III' with Ian McKellen. Consequently, I didn't think it was as outstanding as those two were.But enough of the negatives. There is plenty to recommend Trevor Nunn's 'Twelfth Night' and first and foremost on the list is an absolutely fabulous performance by Imogen Stubbs. I had seen her before in 'Sense and Sensibility,' where she did a fine job, but she wasn't a particular standout among that remarkable cast. Here she simply steals the show playing Viola, who masquerades as a man, Cesario. Her scenes with Helena Bonham Carter as Olivia, who is smitten with him, are a great joy and lots of fun to watch. I don't know if any other version of 'TN' ever played up the angle of sexual ambiguity as much as this one does, but it makes it very interesting for a modern audience.There are many other fine performances, and this is quite a lavish production as well, so on balance I found it worthwhile. But whenever I think of this film I think of Imogen Stubbs.  "},{"Title":"Hawthorne is in Fine form","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I would have preferred my Twefth Night a bit lighter than Nunn's Heavy handed production his choices for the most part work well in context.  Nigel Hawthorne as Malvolio is the standout in a fine cast. his malvolio is pompous but sympathetic. I do not believe, however,that malvolio after saying he will be revenged on the whole pack of you would up and leave. he should stay at the palace and continue being malvolio, that is his revenge. Helena b. Carter is wonderful as always, charming and witty. Richard e. Grant is also in top form as Andrew.  The only real problem I had was Ben Kingsley. always a fine actor,the interpretation of Feste as a Brechtian interloper seemed quite out of place in Illyria. I would love to see him do the same type of performance as street singer in Threepenny Opera though.  Mr. Nunn keeps the pace moving and adds a lot of depth even to the smaller roles. Over all a 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Very nice adaptation, gorgeous costumes...","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only version I had seen before this was an old BBC stage version, and I have to say this totally blew that out of the water. The changes made to the original were quite an improvement and really strengthened the play - and the cast was marvelous. Just absolutely amazing. I'm trying to think of something bad to say about it, but can't... I think I'll watch it again tonight. "},{"Title":"Very pleasing and rewarding film.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't try to add much, but Twelveth Night is richly filmed and full of incredible bit performances. It is lusty, passionate, beautiful, anxious and very intelligent at the same time. Kingsley really shines unbelievably in a secondary role like this. All these charaters are so developed and important that the story truly seems to be about the supporting characters as well as the leads. "},{"Title":"Glorious","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was an absolute joy. This is probably my favorite play of Shakespeare's and they nailed so many elements that I've often found lacking in productions I've seen. There is palpable chemistry between Viola and Orsino, especially in those luscious moments with Orsino in the tub. The connection between Viola and Sebastian gave the whole story such emotional richness, and I've never been so moved by the reunion scene. I loved that Trevor Nunn embraced the darkness of the comedy. No, this is not a side-splitter, and trying to make it one just weakens the impact of the story. Every actor was impeccably cast, the setting was gorgeous and I highly recommend it to anyone who loves Shakespeare, or who hasn't understood what all the fuss is.  "},{"Title":"What a wonderful movie of this most wonderful play","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always loved this play. The theme of identical twins is delightful and there are so many laughs. I remembered it well from my schooldays when it was obviously a favourite then too. The earlier performances I've seen never, though, came up to the level of this one. I saw a version starring a very short Viola with an appallingly inappropriate halo of fluffy fair hair who looked totally ridiculous as a man and surely must have seemed to Orsino like a 12 year old page. One would hope Orsino wouldn't be falling for a child page!! And could you imagine this short actress in pageboy clothes and looking no more than a child being courted by the adult Olivia? Ridiculous... So it all made a nonsense of this story and when I tried to watch it again after seeing this version, I could only glance at a few scenes (with a very wet and soulful and completely pathetic Orsino mooning about) in horror and then return it hurriedly to the library.So this version has completely spoiled me for anything twee. I couldn't now accept a pretty diminutive Viola. She must be a sensible height to pass for a young man. Perhaps Viola has previously been played as a page rather than a young man being trained in warfare as in this movie but I think the best reading is that Viola is a strongwilled, adventurous young woman who wouldn't want the kind of conventional life Olivia has and with her brother lost seizes the opportunity to try out living a man's life with all the privileges that would bring in Shakespeare's time. So Imogen Stubbs with her beautiful but also strong features and height and perfect voice is ideal for this part.In the same way, Toby Stephens elevates Orsino from the dismal mooning character too often portrayed. Orsino can't be a wet dreamer. He's the leader of his country in war. He's highly respected and an upright person, made clear in the dialogue. His household is only of men and the indication in this play is that he runs a military academy which is surely exactly what we'd expect of a strong leader engaged in a war with a neighbouring state. Stephens is also extremely handsome, which adds plenty of spice to his character! The brother Sebastian, also excellently played and very charming, is amazingly like his twin in this production which is excellent. Of course we viewers can suspend belief when two actors are this much alike. Hard to imagine that in some productions both parts are played by one actress - this seems to me quite ridiculous nowadays although perfectly feasible in Shakespeare's time since women could not act on stage and the same boy could play both parts. Not allowing the twins to come face to face on stage would be completely bizarre. But I think that today this cannot work. We can't accept Viola played by a man. We can't accept Sebastian played by a girl. So better to suspend belief just a little! Sebastian's admirer Antonio is another splendid part excellently portrayed by Nicholas Farrell. Same applies to all the other actors. Sir Toby is portrayed with much wit but also some undertones of seriousness as he occasionally expresses his frustration at being a poor relation dependent on his niece's charity. Maria is not wasted as a silly bumpkin maid but given dignity and a little pathos. Malvolio becomes as I think he should a rather tragic figure, perfectly portrayed by Nigel Hawthorne especially in that famous scene! Sir Andrew is really sweet in his silly way. Helena Bonham Carter makes Olivia delightful and youthful, so suitable to fall for Cesario. Ben Kingsley rounds it off with a lovely sharp portrayal of Feste and lovely singing. "},{"Title":"The Best Shakespeare Film - Ever!!!","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is absolutely awesome, I recommend everyone see it! The plot is fascinating and fast paced, it really keeps you guessing what's going to happen next. It's about two very similar twins, Viola and Sebsatian, who are caught in a ship wreck and each believe the other dead. Viola, for protection, dresses up as a boy and goes to work for a powerful Duke (a very dashing Toby Stephens). When the Duke sends his new male servant to woo his love, Lady Olivia (the glamorous Helena Bonham Carter), all sorts of chaos reigns, especially when Viola's now identically looking twin brother arrives!!The actors give it their all and make the complicated Shakespearian language much easier to follow. The scenery is the breathtakingly beautiful Cornish coast and the overall feel of the play is one that has been made with great care, yet never tires or becomes bogged down with the complicated language. I had no idea of the story before watching, but found this no obstacle, unlike many other Shakespeare film adaptions. I've never been much of a Shakespeare fan and have only read it when made to in school! After watching this film, however, I have been reading the play itself and have really enjoyed studying the original Shakespeare! There are so many different ideas and themes in the original play, all of which are brought effortlessly to life in the screen! The film also treads well the fine line the play expresses between tragedy and comedy.A brilliant treat of a film that is genuinely funny, heart warming and addicting! One of my all time favourite films I can't seem to stop watching!!! "},{"Title":"A modern classic","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What is wrong with Trevor Nunn's Twelfth Night? Not a lot! This phenomenal production is immortalized by nothing short of epochally well-cast versions of Feste, Toby Belch and Olivia. These are beyond perfection. Most of the others are great as well, but I will single out Olivia again, as I hold Helena Bonham-Carter to be the One True Fit for Shakespeare's quintessential dark lady stock character, and it is such a shame that she hasn't had the chance to prove it more often.Anyway - there is one major imperfection in this Twelfth, and that is Malvolio. No slight to Nigel Hawthorne, but he's trying too hard. Or the movie is relying too much on him. He is too pathetic. We are not supposed to feel sorry for him; he's the villain! Not the wronged party! Sure, he gets fooled something fierce, and maybe it's going a bit too far, but, he sure did set himself up for it, didn't he! Malvolio should be an asset to this play, not an obstacle. Fortunately, we can enjoy Viola and Olivia and Orsino and Sebastian and Feste and the others. And that is good enough for me.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Almost perfect","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From a Shakespearean Comedy point of view, this film is unbeatable. Beautifully shot, wonderfully acted, brilliantly conceived. It's hard to be critical of any part of this marvelous film.I use this film, along with Julie Taymor's Titus, to introduce people to Shakespeare. Yes, there are two problems - one short but necessary stretch that is too wordy, and the final humiliation scene of Malvolio that is played too seriously - but the film wins every other moment.I continue to marvel at Ben Kingsley. Here he plays Feste as if he is watching the play unfold with you, even has he participates in it. His whimsy is palpable, and you can't take your eyes off him. His songs might be the high point of the film.No, you won't believe the plot. I don't think Shakespeare ever thought someone would believe it. It's a comedy. Just go along with it, let it charm you. You won't be disappointed. I give it a 9.8, but have to round up to 10. What a lovely film! "},{"Title":"Twelfth Night WATCH IT","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was excited when I received the video. I had done the production without knowing much of the plot line, and i've read the play as well. Now that I have the pictures in front of me I understand it. One thing they could change I believe is the fact that the second plot line (Sir Toby, Sir Andrew, etc) takes over most of the story. Viola is the main character, isn't she? I don't know. The movie is great, and the twins look very much alike (not to mention SING alike), and all actors and actress get my vote! Everyone looks great, and the music has me singing the songs over and over again. Feste is great! The whole movie is great! "},{"Title":"Great Adaptation","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had to watch this film along with many others for a class on Shakespeare in production, and let me say this was one of the better ones. The verse, though fast-paced, was fairly easy to understand because the actors knew what they were doing. Trevor Nunn's trimming of the original Shakespearian dialog was tasteful, and didn't detract from the film; I wouldn't have noticed if I hadn't had the actual text in front of me while I was watching it! Ben Kingsly makes a very interesting and mysterious Feste, and the other actors are wonderful. Their characters are emotionally believable, if romantically incompetent, and they make the jokes funny, even though the material is hundreds of years old! The 18th century setting ties in well with the action, and the scenery is enchanting. All in all, a great adaptation of the original. "},{"Title":"Terrific film BUT ... (tough love ahead)","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You can't go wrong with Shakespeare's best romantic comedy, Twelfth Night. Handled by a near-perfect ensemble, these laughable winners and losers toil in mistaken identity and unrequited love, with touching results. However...The pacing suffers from too much subplot, while the dark look doesn't fully illuminate the comedy. Even stranger, why is the film's most lovable character utterly humiliated right after the big heart-warming finale? What purpose does this serve, other than to interrupt our emotional high? The problem is that few films have the magic of Zefferelli's Romeo and Juliet, Olivier's Hamlet, and Branagh's Much Ado About Nothing. With flawless drama, impeccable scenery, and enchanting music, each of these films created its own world. The stamp of a great movie is that you can't see it done any other way. This version of Twelfth Night, like the recent Merchant of Venice, is a solid movie that you will enjoy, maybe even love. But while some performances reach for the stars (I can't picture another Olivia or Malvolio) I just wish rest of the film did as well. I wanted spellbinding photography, sweeter music, deeper emotions (that's you Orsino), and bigger laughs. If you're going to do a classic, then mine it for all its worth. "}{"Title":"wonderful!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting the typical Shakespeare adaptation, but got so much more! I thoroughly enjoyed the movie.  I thought the actors were wonderful, the plot was entertaining, and I laughed much more than I thought I would. The director did a wonderful job of getting the story across, despite the language barrier.  I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Great but not absolutely stunning","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great, date film, full of fun, and something to rent on a Friday night.  The movie is filled with delightful characters and stays true to Shakespeare's play.  Both Ben Kingsley (Feste) and the late Sir Nigel Hawthorne (Malvolio) steal the show with their crazy antics as well as the characters of Sir Toby Belch and Co.  The guys who played the Duke of Orsino and Viola's twin brother are absolutely handsome and great in their roles.  Helena Bonham-Carter was excellent in her role as Olivia.I give this movie 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Funny.  Brilliant.  An influential Shakespearean adaptation.","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is by far my favorite version of Twelfth Night, stage or screen. The performances are spot on, and the directing perfectly captures the spirit of the play in transfer to film and the transfer to a 17th Century setting. Compare how well bicycles are used in this film to the awkward staging in the recent A Midsummer Night's Dream with Calista Flockhart.  This film is funny, like Shakespeare meant it to be.  Thank god.  See this and avoid Helen Hunt's filmed stage performance which is disastrously bland. "},{"Title":"Will would love this one","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A shipwreck, mistaken identities, a woman in disguise as a man...  This is certainly one of the best Shakespeare plays brought to cinematic life in recent years.  Stubbs, Stephens, and Bonham-Carter could not have made a more unlikely and humourous love triangle.  Stubbs' handling of Viola/Caesario is both skilful and comical.  Stephens' Orsino is brash but also appealing.  Bonham-Carter is even better than usual as the cold Olivia who falls in love with Viola disguised as Caesario.  I would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a comedy of mishap and mayhem.  "},{"Title":"Delightful Shakespeare on film!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This version of Twelfth Night is the fastest two hours+ of Shakespeare you'll ever watch.  Even if you think Shakespeare's English sounds like a foreign language, you'll understand this delightful comedy/romance/mistaken identity story.  It is fun Bard and excellent film and a perfect cast. Charmingly romantic and laugh-out-loud funny.  9/10, at least. "},{"Title":"Second best movie adaptation of a Shakespeare comedy","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is truly a wonderful adaptation of the classic play.  All the actors are superb, and the direction is outstanding.  The movie only drags momentarily in a few spots; a real accomplishment with any of Shakespeare's works turned into film.That said, I did find two things odd, (1) I was surprised the writing credits went solely to the director.  Should we perhaps throw the Bard in there somewhere?  And (2), the tagline's comparison to TOO WONG FOO and THE BIRDCAGE.  There's really no homosexual elements in this movie at all, and I was a bit disappointed they threw in those mentions, most likely to draw in modern viewers.This is a very worthwhile time-killer.  Oh, and the best movie adaptation of a Shakespearean comedy is Branagh's MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING - if you liked TWELFTH NIGHT, check this one out as well! "},{"Title":"or, What They Won't","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In William Shakespeare's Twelfth Night (or, What You Will), brother and sister twins Viola and Sebastian are shipwrecked off the shores of Illyria. Viola mistakenly thinks brother Sebastian has drowned. She goes to Illyria alone; and, she assumes the identity of a young man, Cesario. In Illyria, Cesario (Viola) gets a job as gentleman (dresser) for the duke Orsino. Male (female) Cesario (Viola) falls in love with (male) Orsino. But, he loves another woman, Olivia. Meanwhile, Olivia falls in love with the female twin Cesario (Viola), thinking she is a male. Then, real male twin Sebastian returns, undead! Then, all's well that ends well.The supporting characters in director Trevor Nunn's cinematic version are all right (actually, they come off better, due to the overall execution of the film). But, mainly, it's about Imogen Stubbs (as Viola aka Cesario), and her interaction with Toby Stephens (as Orsino) and Helena Bonham Carter (as Olivia). This Twelfth Night is very well produced. It seems much more dramatic than comic, which is most obvious in the tone-setting opening. The supporting characters and subplots retain the more comic flavor, though. This portends a promising adaptation.But, the film doesn't really end up as you like it.Ms. Stubbs becomes an endearing Viola. Both Stubbs and Mr. Stephens, and Stubbs and Ms. Bonham Carter are fun to watch fall in love. The sexual dynamics work; interestingly, each of the performers add some subtleties. Film, of course, picks up its own (different than stage) nuances. The already shaky premise falls apart, however, when Sebastian returns; and, the performers lose credibility very quickly. Originally, a male would more convincingly play BOTH twins. It would have been better to have Stubbs (or even Steven Mackintosh) play both roles. This film points in the right direction; but, next time, either go all the way, or leave Twelfth Night on the stage.****** Twelfth Night (1996) Trevor Nunn ~ Imogen Stubbs, Toby Stephens, Helena Bonham Carter "},{"Title":"Mostly an enjoyable and accessible adaptation","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Viola and Sebastian are siblings who look quite alike and are very close due to being only alone together since the death of their father. They are entertaining on board a ship when a storm sees Viola lost overboard, with Sebastian diving in after her. Separated and each fearing the other lost to the seas, Viola disguises herself as a man, Cesario and wins the confidence and friendship of Duke Orsino, who seeks Viola's help in wooing Lady Olivia. Olivia is wearing the death of her brother like a constant veil to avoid Orsino as she does not love him &#150; however she quickly finds love for her new visitor Cesario. If that wasn't bad enough, Olivia's cousin Toby Belch conspires to complicate things further by convincing both the simple Sir Andrew Aguecheek and the pompous servant Malvolio that they are both desired by Olivia. Meanwhile, local man Feste looks on at the madness around him.I do enjoy Shakespeare and enjoy nothing more than the occasional evening down the road in the theatres off the river in Stratford-upon-Avon watching the RSC. However, before anyone thinks I am presenting myself as some form of intellectual, I easily struggle to follow the narrative within the language and will often make sure I know the plot before I start the film so that I can get lost in the flow of the dialogue, miss the meaning of some sections but still follow the overall flow. The best productions I have seen on stage and film are presented in such a way to make them accessible to the target audience. With this version of Twelfth Night, I did find some parts of the first half of the film a little hard to get into but as the characters and various threads get developed a bit more.At the start the aspects of farce and slight melancholy don't totally work but as it went on and I got into it, I found that it worked better and better. It is worth saying this because some viewers who struggle at first and maybe are not familiar with the story may bail within twenty minutes, however to do so, in my opinion, would be a mistake. Nunn's direction is mostly good but the one big problem I did have with the delivery was the sound quality. The dialogue is hard to follow as it is but in some scenes the large rooms produce an echo effect that makes it slightly difficult to hear..This is not down to the actors though and indeed if the film has one overriding strength it is the performances, which are roundly engaging and fun. Stubbs leads the cast well but, if you excuse the irony, she has a rather straight role in comparison to majority of the rest. Bonham-Carter is really well cast and does good work in the object of affection. Stephens is solid, as are Mackintosh, Livingstone and Farrell. Smith and Staunton are fun and they work well with the enjoyable pompous Hawthorne. Similarly Grant gives good moron and Kingsley does good work as Feste, making a strong core outside of the thread to some degree.Overall then an enjoyable and engaging version of the Shakespeare. Viewers may find it a bit hard going in the early stages but, aside from the sound issues, it gets increasingly accessible and enjoyable and is a very good adaptation. "},{"Title":"An excellent adaptation","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Trevor Nunn's adaptation of one of Shakespeare's best comedies rates as one of the finest. He has assembled a superb cast including the excellent Ben Kingsley,outstanding Nigel Hawthorne and Imelda Staunton who plays the stern maid Maria with relish. Hawthorne in particular steals the show with his portrayal of Malvolio the uptight servant who is deceived by Maria, Sir Toby (Mel Smith)and Sir Andrew (Richard E Grant). Grant is perfect for the role of Sir Andrew through his physical appearance and general demeanour on screen portraying the deluded Knight. All the cast fit their roles well and all take their characters on a journey throughout the film.The fictitious Ilyria is divine as are all the locations used in this film with much emphasis being put on the landscape. In terms of plot, this film keeps all the major strands from the romantic plots to the comic plots and the plots of mistaken identity. Despite the film being an edited version of the play, viewers can fully understand the play as a whole having watched this film.If you crave for a decent Shakespearean adaptation then look no further than this offering from Trevor Nunn. "},{"Title":"One of the best adaptations of Shakespeare I've seen!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm in a Shakespeare class in school this year, and we watched two or three different movies/films of each play we read.  We only watched a few scenes from this one after reading Twelfth Night, but it made such an impression on me that I asked the teacher to borrow it that night.  I loved the costumes, the scenery, the acting, and especially the musical arrangements of the rhymes Shakespeare wrote for Feste.  And speaking of which, I don't know why some people didn't like Ben Kingsley in the role.  I can't imagine anyone else doing it; he brought a certain special wistfulness to the part that I'm pretty sure only he could make believable.  In any case, although I would normally be wary of Trevor Nunn (who overproduced Les Miserables along with Cameron Mackintosh), I was very impressed with his interpretation.  9.9 out of 10! "}{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was in a recent production of this play, and had no idea what was happening after I read it.  I saw the film, and the capable cast cleared it up for me.  This is very funny, and I recommend it for those college students who think Shakespeare is boring.  Great job. "},{"Title":"Superior Rendition of a Favorite Shakespeare Comedy","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A first-rate cast directed by Trevor Nunn, the premier Shakespeare interpreter of our era, makes this version of Twelfth Night a must-see for anyone who loves Shakespeare. The action appears to take place in the 18th or 19th century but the interpretation is otherwise straight-forward. While reduced from the Shakespearean original to a little over two hours, the script contains all of the essential elements. Nunn takes full advantage of the rugged setting to eliminate the proscenium and draws excellent performances from his cast of British-trained stars led by Helena Bonham Carter as Olivia, Imogen Stubbs as Viola (posing as Rosario), Ben Kingsley as Feste, the clown, Nigel Hawthorne as Malvolio, the proud steward, Mel Smith as Sir Toby Belch who combines with Maria, played by Imelda Stuanton, to reduce Malvolio to ridicule and tears. Viola and her twin brother, Sebastian (Steven MacIntosh), are matched in height and coloring but, as is invariably the case in Twelfth Night, it requires the audience to be blind to the fact that there is no way they could be mistaken for one another. Suspension of disbelief is what is required and anyone accustomed to Shakespeare's mistaken identities readily provides it. Sebastian, Viola's twin, has a lesser role, of course, but Steven McIntosh fills it nicely as does Nicholas Farrell as Antonio, who rescues Sebastion from the sea when the ship carrying the twins breaks apart, leading each to believe that the other is dead. The lone weak spot in the cast is Toby Stevens as Orsino, too weak a personality to inspire Viola's love (though his spurning as a suitor by Bonham Carter's Olivia is easy to understand). The plot leading up to Malvolio's fall is stylishly executed and his downfall, in Nigel Hawthorne's extraordinarily capable hands, nearly reaches the level of tragedy. "},{"Title":"Indifferent telling of an indifferent play.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a great play in the first place, with much of it's ideas, and even characters cribbed from some of Shakespeare's previous plays, this version was simply uninteresting. Despite Richard E. Grant's spirited performance there was just far too much dullness. It all looks very nice, and the cast give their all, but a little lightness of touch would've been welcome.Director Nunn should stick to the stage where he works best. And casting your wife in one of the main parts is just greedy! "},{"Title":"Why so many movies from Shakespeare works?","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Shakespeare was probably the greatest writer ever existed; consequently, the best way to enjoy his art is to READ his works. For various reasons, I think that stage representations, and films all the more, are usually incapable to render the full power of Shakespeare's genius.Twelfth Night sits among the too many movies from Shakespeare's works. Following are my comments on the film.Usually, and sensibly, the twins Sebastian and Viola are played on the stage by the same actress. The director Trevor Nunn had the idea of having them interpreted by a man (Steven Mackintosh) and a woman (Imogen Stubbs). Unfortunately, Mackintosh and Stubbs are so utterly different that the view of people on the screen pretending to mistake one for the other has a ridiculous effect on the audience.The 19th century costumes ruins the legendary atmosphere of the story where to place Orsino's duchy in Illyria, at that epoch divided between the Austrian and Turkish empires?I have seen Nigel Hawthorne in several British movies. Here he plays Malvolio and, like in other films, he over-acts, to say the least. Speaking of Malvolio and the never-ending comic scenes concerned with him, I venture a humble personal opinion, which hopefully won't be considered a sacrilege. Shakespeare wrote comic scenes to please the London mob of the 16th century. The sense of humor of that epoch was dreadful essentially, it consisted in over-vulgar tricks with final drubbing of the victim. There's no art in many of these comic scenes, which should be cut with advantage.Bonham Carter and Stubbs act well and are pretty and attractive women; but Shakespeare's love-verses praise and exalt a beauty these two actresses don't attain. One ought never forget the difference between the stage and the screen. A Carmen of 300 pounds weigh or a sixty-years-old Parsifal are acceptable on the stage, of course not on the screen. In a film, to equalize Shakespeare's lines one would need an actress of outstanding beauty (Catherine Zeta-Jones, say). And, speaking of women's attractiveness, how much drunk is supposed to be Sir Toby, to fall in love with THAT maid Maria?The above considerations are not intended to blame Twelfth Night, a pleasant movie with some merits. My point is that a director of authentic genius is necessary to make a satisfactory transfer of Shakespeare into a film up to my knowledge and taste, only Orson Welles and Akira Kurosawa succeeded in this exploit.    "}]