[{"Title":"Always Satisfying To See Punks Get It","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Even though it was kind of a low-class type of story and movie with mostly bad, profane people tossing the f-word around like it was candy, it still was an enjoyable movie in a lot of parts and certainly had a satisfying ending. Perhaps that's why it was successful enough to spurn a sequel (albeit, a weak one.)Tom Berenger is good to watch. He's convincing as a tough guy substitute teacher Jonathan Shale who won't put up with the punks in the classroom. And, boy, you see the worst group of high school students I've ever seen on film. Tough to imagine kids harder to encounter than these slime-balls but satisfying to see them dealt with accordingly. You have to love it. "},{"Title":"Not high art, but you gotta enjoy teachers putting it to the punks!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Substitute is not high art. Ebert reviewed it as a serious film and gave it a very negative review. But as a B-movie where the teachers get revenge, the bad guy dope-peddling punks and principal get their due, it is a virtual The Patriot for the high school system. You can't help but smile and root and rejoice when punk after punk gets thrown out the upper floor window by Beringer while the principal relaxes in his office, assuming the punks will prevail.Beringer plays a mercenary who becomes the substitute when the real teacher is injured by the punks. With his background in covert operations, and his support network, the punks are no match for him. I've seen it several times on network TV, its one of those films I just can't stop watching. Roy Frumkes, who wrote each of the Substitute movies wasn't trying to create a classic, just fun entertainment. In a personal communication he said,  Not only did that film surprise everyone by doing as well as it did, but when it came time for the three sequels, my contract was worded so that they couldn't get rid of me!  Thus providing his retirement fund. Hey! some people win the lottery. His was a different kind of lottery.I like The Substitute a lot. I think Roy Frumkes is a classy guy. It is destined to be one of those cult films that lasts much longer than logic says it should.  "},{"Title":"No-nonsense action with a bit of social input","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" These no-nonsense action films that try to convey some social statements have a soft spot in my books and therefore I sometimes rate these movies higher than they actually deserve. The Substitute is a late bloomer in this department since it actually received a theatrical release and did fairly well. Nowadays films like these go directly to video or television and the ambition that was invested in these films is today nonexistent.The terribly underrated Tom Berenger plays a mercenary whose girlfriend is a teacher at a lower class high school. When she's attacked by a thug Berenger creates his own resumé and teacher credentials and assumes her position at the school and becomes the substitute teacher. Once there he discovers the school is run by a corrupt drug dealing principal who's using some students there to help him run his operation. Naturally Berenger, along with some of his mercenary friends, take action and attempt to stop this operation which culminates in a massive shoot out on school grounds.While this is an action movie at heart, it also tries to relate some well meaning messages about today's youth. The way lower class kids are living, which is dangerously on the edge, their way of thinking and looking at the world around them. In a particularly nice scene, one character doesn't admit to being ashamed of how her life is but when asked if she wanted her child to replicate her life, well, that's another matter indeed. That one scene explains a lot and it's moments like these that actually make The Substitute a little bit more interesting than many other films of similar nature.But the film doesn't go too far into social matters and quickly gets down and dirty with the action, which is well served and the film never slows down too much. All the cast are willing and able to entertain, some real quality actors here and they all fare well.The Substitute in many ways represents a dying breed of movie-making and it will probably give movie fanatics a feeling of nostalgia in years to come. "},{"Title":"Great fun. Just don't take it seriously!","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  No matter how many times this movie is shown on cable, I still have to pause for at least a few minutes and watch portions of it. This is one of those action films that will entertain you as long as you don't try to apply logic to it or take it seriously.The story has a professional mercenary (Berenger) and his army pals looking for work after they are cut loose from active duty following a botched mission in Cuba. Berenger doesn't want the group to get involved in running drugs for anyone, but that seems to be the only work that mercs can get these days in Florida. After Berenger's girlfriend is attacked by a ruthless street gang (led by Latin heart-throb Marc Anthony, no less) he and his pals end up trying to weed them out of the high school where she teaches. Berenger poses as her substitute teacher, and once he gets an inside look at the problems at the school, he realizes there may be more than just a gang of punks causing the trouble. It's up to Berenger and his merc pals to try and rid the school of its criminal element, and make things safer for the kids.You cannot deny the good intentions of the plot, even if it is a bit preposterous. The acting is a little wooden in places, and the soundtrak (particularly the rap song in during the final credits) is laughable. The script has some questionable dialogue, and sometimes it can be downright amatuerish. There are plenty of shoot-outs and explosions to get the viewer's blood pumping, and it's nice to see someone make a stand in a tough environment like an inner-city high school.This movie has spawned a few sequels which I won't comment on since I have only seen one of them, and they have no connection to the original.Overall, this film is definitely worth watching if you are into action and revenge type themes. If you are looking for anything deep and insightful about the problems of the inner-cities, you may want to look elsewhere.So sayeth the Hound.  "},{"Title":"Realistic 90's High School Action without any cheap clichés.","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie, set in South Florida, incorporates history and realistic action to weave an entertaining story of South Florida crime. Tom Berringer is believable as a mercenary who seeks to find out why his girlfriend is attacked by a high school gang by becoming a substitute teacher. The acting, across the board, is excellent. The school principal, Glenn Plummer, provides a believable ringleader of the school gang with a powerful acting role. Mark Anthony is outstanding as his top henchman and provides one of the best acting jobs of any singing entertainer since Mark Walberg. MA is a natural! The action is never static, the fights are believable in comparison to standard Hollywood fare, the locations are real and the overall dialog and cinematography is outstanding. No cheap tricks like unnecessary explosions or animation matting needed to cement this action in reality. I highly recommend this movie (even on standard TV having to wait through the ads is not a problem). It is entertaining, credible and keeps you hooked to see how they wrap it up. If you like gritty, real, down-to-earth action with high school kids who are more than cardboard characters, this is a movie you'll love. If you're from South Florida, it is a major bonus seeing SF locations although jumping from Fort Lauderdale to Miami stretches the reality of living in this area. Rent it, buy it, love it. "},{"Title":"Possibly the Best Film of All Time?","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Maybe, maybe not. But as far as the action flick genre is concerned this might just rank up there as at least one of the best. Sorry FT. Berenger gives the performance of his life here as a mercenary who goes undercover as a teacher at a school run by drug dealing thugs. Additional kudos go to Ernie Hudson who gives a riveting performance as the high school principal on the brink. Even J Lo's present squeeze Marc Anthony gets into the act as the surly gang leading nemisis to Berenger's good guy portrayal. Director Robert Mandel of School Ties fame does a phenomenal job tying up all the loose ends presented throughout Roy Frumkes and Rocco Simonelli's brilliant screenplay and treating the viewer to a climax that is both intensely shocking as well as entertaining. The beach scene where Berenger's girlfriend played by the lovely Diane Verona a perfect example of why this movie is a real standout. Verona is first seen jogging along the beach while the viewer is treated to the soundtrack's Mongo Jerry's In the Summertime. Then out of the blue, in broad daylight, in front of dozen's of onlookers, a thug runs up and whacks her knee with a lead pipe ala Nancy Kerigan's Olympic ordeal. Tom Berenger then comes (out of the blue) to her aid and carries her off to the hospital. My only complaint was that were not more scenes in the movie like this one. "},{"Title":"Tom Berenger's fine performance in The Substitute makes the movie worth watching","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** The Substitute starts off like a solid inner city drama about violence in a high school in Miami with teacher Jane Hetzko, Diane Venora, after being threatened by one of the schools violent thugs Juan Laucas, Marc Anthony, goes to the schools principal Claude Rolle, Ernie Hudson, for help. Only to be told that there's nothing that he can do, how many times have we heard that before. After having it out again with the same Laucas and his gang as she was going home Jane is later attacked while she was jogging by the beach and was crippled with a smashed kneecap. Jane's boyfriend Shale, Tom Berenger, who happened to be an unemployed mercenary looking for work got a job at the school, in fact the very same class, that Jane worked at as a substitute teacher after a friend of his working in the Miami record office falsified a background check for Shale as a licensed teacher. Shale, calling himself Mr. James Smith, after breaking a number of fingers and wrists got the disruptive students in line in no time at all. The movie starts to take a turn when Shale/Mr.Smith notices that something just isn't right about the school with students driving around with $50,000.00 BMW's and wearing as much as $100,000.00 gold watches, including principal Rolle. That it's obvious to Shale/Mr.Smith that there's more going on in the school then just readin' ritin' and rithmetic. Implausible action drama that does have it's moments as Tom Berenger battles school thugs and drugs pushers. With the high school principal Rolle being the #1 drug dealer getting his drug supply from a brutal Indian drug gang, The Glades mob. With the drugs being distributed by Rolle's personal Deans List the gang that runs and terrorizes the school, Columbia High, the Kings of Destruction or K.O.D. Tom Berenger is quite good as the Soldier of Fortune, Shale, turned concerned citizen and high school teacher, Mr. Smith, who with the help of his mercenary friends cleans up the school and smashes the K.O.D gang and Glades drug mob in the process just for good measures. Action-packed movie that looks more like a Steven Seagel or Burce Willis slam-bang action flick then a film about school violence like Blackboard Jungle. Unlike in most of these type of action movies with Seagal & Willis, especially Seagal, where the hero completely overpowers his opposition with very little or almost no damage to himself the hero in the Substitute, Mr.Smith/Shale, takes a lot more then he dishes out from his opponents. Which makes him more human and sympathetic to the movies audience who can easily identify with him. Shale/Smith is also very sweet with his girlfriend Jane and does show genuine concern for his students as well as his co-workers in the school so that even with the somewhat unbelievable plot Tom Berenger's acting does make you forget just how ridicules the movie really is. Diane Venora is effective as Berenger's girlfriend as well as Marc Anthony as Juan Laucas the K.O.D gang leader. Ernie Hudson as the corrupt school principal and former corrupt cop Rolle played it a little to much and it made you wonder how he's been getting away with his drug dealing operations. Rolle doesn't seem to be too concerned if anyone knows about them to the point where he has over a hundred kilos of coke hidden in the schools boiler room. He also uses the K.O.D to knock off anyone who's a threat to his drug operation in his high school like when he tried to knock off Shale/Mr.Smith, without success, without any fear of the local police. In regards to his drug dealing Rolle doesn't at all seem to care or be afraid of an FBI or federal investigation. The final shot-out in the school with Shale and his mercenary friends with the Glade mob & K.O.D gang was as good as anything that you would see in this type of movie. With Shale's on and off again mercenary friend and buddy Hollan, William Forsythe, as a stand out as he more then makes up for all the trouble that he caused Shale all throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"Better than Dangerous Minds!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  On a Friday, some weeks ago the so-called television highlight for this evening was the The Substitute, a film that got nothing but bad reviews by the TV guides. Nevertheless I decided to watch this flick - and after all it was really better than I had expected, because this movie contains enough action and suspense to keep you awake! The story is quite far-fetched but interesting in any case and actors like Tom Berenger, Diane Venora or Ernie Hudson do a solid job. Not as demanding as the brilliant One Eight Seven starring Samuel L. Jackson but definitely good entertainment!6/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Action flick","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are alot of different movies based upon school disruption, but the best ones I've seen thus far are The Substitute and 187.187 has a bit more meaning to it, but a little less action. Tom Berenger has always made a believable tough guy (just look at Platoon) I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys action flicks.*** 1/2 out of *****  "},{"Title":"Tremendously satisfying!","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here's one of those immensely satisfying albeit somewhat unlikely flicks in which the scumbags really get their just deserts. Think Dangerous Minds crossed with Death Wish and you'll have a pretty good gist of things here.The ever excellent Tom Berenger stars as a tough as nails mercenary who seeks retribution after his teacher girlfriend is viciously assaulted on the orders of a high school gang calling themselves the Kings Of Destruction. And what better way for our hero to get up close and personal with his quarry than to take the now vacant teaching position his girl friend has left at school and to pose as a substitute. In this assumed role our man quickly weeds out the problem students with some no nonsense discipline which will be sure to raise a smile on most viewers faces. Matters turn out to be a bit more complex however when it is revealed that the school principle is not quite such a genial chap as he at first appears.....in fact far from it as he is orchestrating the gang within his school and trafficking drugs via them. Subsequently our hero enlists the aid of his mercenary buddies to lend a hand and all merry hell subsequently breaks out including in one hilarious scene, one of our boys firing off a rocket launcher down a school corridor(!!!!!) Yes, whilst realism this may be woefully lacking, in fun it more than makes up for! Go on, treat yourself to this wonderful slice of carefree and highly satisfying escapism - you know you want to. "}{"Title":"Fun, enjoyable, not masterpiece material","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Substitute fits into the mold of likable action flicks that are not pure vehicles for their stars to show off their moves--e.g., any Seagal or Van Damme movie. It creates almost instant rapport by sympathetic central characters, even when the plot is a tedious retreaded farrago of numerous other flicks. This series has found sequeldom (albeit in the straight-to-video market) largely because of its unoriginal but amiable central character, the CIA mercenary-cum-pedagog, the teacher who's not really a teacher but is probably a better teacher than a lot of teachers we've had. He's not only there to dispense his wisdom, but also kick some butt on the baddies. In other words--what's not to like?The setup of The Substitute is completely implausible--a school so overrun by drug dealers that it's virtually run by them. In fact, even the principal is on the take. Who needs a spoiler? They virtually telegraph that fact to you before you know for sure. After a teacher gets kneecapped for confronting said dealers, her mercenary/squeeze--adrift after having his last black op shut down (geez, how many times have we seen THAT in the movies?)--comes to the rescue and takes her place in her classroom. Tom Berenger is an excellent, understated center to this movie. Too bad his career has cratered after his brilliant performance in Platoon. Though he's worked steadily, it's been almost exclusively B movies you see at 2AM Sunday morning on the USA Network. Pretty-boy Charlie Sheen has remained in the spotlight and heck even Willem Dafoe has had more A-level roles than Tom. Must be that scary jawbone. Such a shame. Anyway, The Substitute will not endear you to the action flick genre, but it does carry a certain fun element of the good guys getting at the bad guys--even though the good guys are in it for the money. Mercenaries gots to make a living too, ya know? "},{"Title":"Underrated Actor In A Underrated Movie","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What strikes me as strange is that this film has a 5.5 star rating on IMDb - why?? Even more of a crime like Perfect Weapon, why hasn't this seen the time of day on DVD? Hell, I managed to obtain a legit DVD from Sweden(with a very cool menu by the way!) To me, (and would have to agree with another comment on this board), this is very much an unofficial Punisher movie. If anyone's read the War Journals, it echos a very similar storyline where Frank Castle goes undercover in a rundown school. With the way society is, this film has a strong message on how to deal with scumbag students who won't tow the line (yeah, call me Dirty Harry!) I love Ernie Hudson who plays a very unlikely principal, as well as Diane Venora and William Forsythe.In an age where action demands being either CGI or stylized choreography, the action here at least, kicks ass. Tom Berenger not only looks like Frank Castle, but handles action with gutso and relishes every opportunity. In my opinion, he is such a gifted actor and should've been given better roles after this.If you liked James Belushi in The Principal, you'll definitely love this - and trust me, it gets better with repeated viewing. Do yourself a favour and order a DVD from Sweden! "},{"Title":"High school misfits","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film on telly a few nights ago (in March 2006) and ended up devoting 4 and a half hours watching both part one and part two of it because it was so engrossing. Tom Berenger plays the head of a mercenary team who return home from Cuba after a failed mission to find out that his girlfriend, a high school teacher has been injured during a high-school raucous. He (Berenger) decides to investigate by joining the school as a high school substitute teacher when she (the girlfriend) is out sick. What he soon finds out is that the gang-banging rowdy school is corrupt from top to bottom. The school's basement is being used as a drug haven in which the principal of the school (played by perpetual-principal in films Ernie Hudson) is the ring leader. The rest of the film is spent on Berenger's character trying to infiltrate the scheme while many of his beloved come in harms way. J-lo's 3rd husband, Latin music singing sensation Mark Anthony appears in this film as a convincing teenage gang-banging leader. I guess what they say is true after all, it's amazing the sort of things you would find hiding in dark corners! ) "},{"Title":"Looking for a great Action movie? This is it!","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" TOM BERENGER plays a mercenary who poses as a high school substitute teacher by day, but by night he's a kick butt action hero, who along with the help of his mercenary buddies, wipes out scores of bad guy students who roam the halls & make lives miserable for the other students, these gangs of bad guy students are all lead by none other than a corrupt principle played quiet wonderfully by ERNIE HUDSON. I really enjoyed THE SUBSTITUTE, it was a fun action picture & always had something up it's sleeve to keep you watching, the actors all performed well in their well written roles, including Bergener as the Substitute teacher named SHALE. There's never a dull moment in the film & action fans wanting to see a really great action flick should see this, there's no doubt that their thirst for a good action film will be quenched. Not very original story wise (Though how many action films are?) but it's much better than most glossy Hollywood style action pictures. Followed by THE SUBSTITUTE 2 SCHOOL'S OUT **** stars "},{"Title":"Suprisisngly entertaining.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This turned out to be surprisingly very entertaining movie, but far from great. Tom Berenger does a decent job as the cop going undercover as a High School teacher to find the men who attack his girlfriend. Ernie Hudson was put on a good show as the crocked principal who is selling drugs in his own school. Marc Antony is convincing as a gang leader, and follower to the rich wealthy leader of the operation. The story is basic, but it does come off as being too much like Robocop at times. The movie gets alittle slow during the middle part, and tries to be an inspirational film, but comes off as being flat. It's worth a rental, but you probably should avoid the direct to video sequels. "},{"Title":"This is one substitute teacher you do not want to mess with.","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nothing beats a teacher putting a bunch of wannabe tough guys in their places and making it look easy. The movie starts off with a former marine's (Shale) girlfriend being assaulted by a fat cuban who is hired by some of her students. Completely fed up, Shale decides to take the law into his own hands and fakes some credentials to become the substitute for his girlfriend. While substituting, he learns that the plot is much more deeper than he thought, and the story continues from there. Tom Berenger gives a great performance here, and the rest of the cast is fitting and believable. If I have one complaint about this movie, it would be the lack of attractive babes. Other than that, flawless. Rent it, buy it, catch it on TV - do whatever you must to see this. You'll be glad you did.5/5  "},{"Title":"Not very good - though Berenger was excellent!","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to agree with the majority. This film is not very good; badly directed, sloppy script, tedious stereotypes, and cliched throughout. But in my opinion Tom Berenger just about saved it. He is an EXCELLENT actor & I don't understand why his career stalled. I guess that's just the nature of Hollywood. The scene where Berenger has just beaten up a pair of gangsters and the Principal asks him to apologise to them stands out in particular. Oh, that'll be the $@#%£$& day. This is what a GOOD actor can do with even a throwaway line. My own Drama teacher was fond of saying Don't just DO something. STAND there. Berenger's been unfairly criticised for a leaden performance, but I think it was intentional - and perfect! It showed the gravity of Shale's personality. He's a dark & serious guy. I was also amazed to see that Berenger was 47 when this movie was made. I'm 20 years younger and in (much) worse shape. I was also glad to see Luis Guzman in this film, though he was completely wasted. Anyone who's seen him play Pachanga in Carlito's Way will know how fantastic he is in the hyperactive/psychotic supporting role; yet he hardly had a single line. Crazy! My biggest criticism of The Substitute is something I haven't noticed anyone else mention; so here goes. Where the Hell were the Miami Police!!!!!! Here you have a school absolutely awash with drugs and gangsters, assault rifles, unemployed kids driving BMW 735s, teachers being threatened, attacked and murdered etc etc - yet not a cop in sight? So, mega-disappointing. I recently saw Berenger in the latest series of Law & Order. He played an ageing FBI Agent trying to take the blame for his teenage daughter who commits a murder. Another stunning performance and it's a real shame he hasn't got the major roles he deserves.   "},{"Title":"Class movie.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although a b-movie, I thoroughly enjoyed this.  You know when you're just about to roll over and go to sleep, and a late movie catches your eye.. and 90 minutes later you know you're gonna be tired tomorrow, but that's okay because you got to see a cool movie?It's a pretty 'A-Team' sort of plot - a MERC becomes a substitute teacher to crack a drug-distribution ring (and there was some sort of personal vendetta too, involving an attack on his teacher girlfriend - but I missed the beginning).  You can imagine Patrick Swayze, even Steven Segal in this sort of quiet, big-hearted, kicker-of-ass role - but they wouldn't be as good.  You can't help but grin in anticipation when he calls in his MERC buddies for help (including a nicely deranged turn from William Forsyth, who is the detective in Deuce Bigalow).Very enjoyable, with a slightly harder edge than you'd expect from a movie of this type.  "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie very well. It was intense, entertaining and fun to watch. The whole plot was great, but I didn't know Marc Anthony did some acting as well. It's a shame that he played a villain. Oh well, he had his just desserts. Tom Berenger is known for playing tough guy roles as he's always good at it. He is suave, in-control personality gives the chemistry needed to make this a hit. I'm surprised that the principal at the school was the heavy in the movie. Principals like that give discipline a bad name. Everything in the movie was well-made. The cast was great, the storyline was precise, just everything in there was just great. What more do you want from a movie? Rating 3 out of 5 stars. 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"An Odd Bird of Excess We Won't See Again","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film came out three years after Sniper, and it suffers from a serious identity crisis.The film wants to be every good-teacher-cleans-up-bad-school movie you've ever seen. That pretty dominates the first 95% of the film. Great White Hope with some of Class of 1999 mixed in. Then, at the end of the film, it basically turns into Rambo/Sniper but set inside of a school.It's quite entertaining to watch Berenger discipline an unruly class. There are some references to race in the film relevant to its production year of 1996, including one of the black teachers asking Berenger as Mr Smith if he's trying to be some Great White Hope. The soundtrack is very engaging and the production values are convincing.The movie builds well, but wraps up very abruptly, despite being engaging and at least somewhat believable up until that point. A blond man (one of the anti-hero mercs) kicks white cocaine dust into the face of a Seminole Indian drug dealer, calling him Snow. This was strangely racist, but then that guy gets shot so I guess he gets his comeuppance. Then, three minutes later, he saves Mr Smith, his old friend, but we're supposed to feel empathy for his death. Chaotic to say the least. I think there's a good chance this film was wrecked in editing, possibly without the director's approval. At least the film has some surprises.I enjoyed the film, but it goes so seriously and inexplicably astray at the end that it ruined the entire film. There was already a major confrontation near the end, and they didn't need to turn it into Rambo Attends High School for yet another violent climax. This was especially annoying as Berenger starts to show a softer side as a teacher who makes progress relating the similarities of violent wars in American history to violence in American inner cities. Done properly, this film could've been a semi-landmark, but someone had to screw it up, and that in itself warrants investigation. It does compare warring countries to gangs, in a simplistic, but plausible way.This movie is a period museum piece because of its reflection of a time of excess in the USA and Hwood that the 21st Century has seen end. Now there are effects excesses that movies wallow in, this one was among the last from a period of combat choreography.gun battle excesses. Its not that a incoherent script couldn't get made today, but this premise would never get produced today.This film gets an 7 for acting, a 0 for ending, and an 8 for novelty and entertainment. Re-edited, it could be a 7 star film. "}{"Title":"The Substitute","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Coming along some five years after the similar themed 'Toy Soldiers', two films about schools under fire from criminals. I guess that's about as far as the similarities go though as this is an undercover mission for some mercs/Nam vets where as the other film was terrorists taking over the school. So a nasty messed up city high school is plagued by drugs, weapons and bad eggs, what is the Principle to do??. Hire a badass killer merc of course, but the thing is he doesn't know the sub is a badass killer merc. So both the yobbish kids and the staff have no clue this guy is an ex-Nam hardass. As things progress for the Berenger the merc he finds out all is not what it seems.A perfect role for the stoic butch looking Berenger who can play military types till the cows come home. Not much is required of him really, beating the kids down, killing drug dealers, being a smartass...all in a days work. His little tight nit group of mercs are a cool bunch, a young Luis Guzman, the insane William Forsythe, military action flick regular Ray Cruz and Richard Brooks. A really good team of character actors that are great fun to watch, its just a shame we don't more of them in action together.Most of the film is a huge stereotypical montage of standard scenarios you can see coming a mile away. Its all very predictable and you know Berenger will never get hurt. Its undeniably fun to watch these sequences where the youths are acting up with their gangland dialect, waving their hands around making gang signs, virtually behaving like cartoon characters whilst being dressed like bums. At the same time all the girls looks greasy, sweaty and thoroughly unwashed haha need I say almost all the youths are black, Latino or Hispanic. Yep this film doesn't beat around the bush with racial attitudes towards suburban inner city schools in the US.So yes you could say its racist and a bad image on certain groups of young people but dare I say could it also be the truth?. That aside its still a rush to see Berenger humiliate the posers and stamp his authority on the class. I must also say Marc Anthony is really well cast as the slimy skinny gangland leader within the class, a simmering undertone ready to pop. You really do dislike this guy as the plot builds, you know Berenger could kick his ass but he still has that ominous presence, plus the fact he's only suppose to be a teen makes him even more annoying when he gets all mouthy. The whole thing is pretty hokey and like I said before it is very predictable. The finale shoot out within the school is cool though no doubt about that, although I would have preferred if the bad guys had brought lots of gang thugs to the battle instead of their special ops guys. That kinda dismisses the fact the good guys are a special ops team, its suppose to be mercs vs drug dealing thugs.Still its very cool to see all of Berenger's mercs kick ass in their own unique way. A final kudos to Ernie Hudson as the shifty principle of the school, his performance isn't much better than his hammy role in 'Congo' but that's why its so good. Definitely a bit of an adrenaline rush at times with this one, I think everyone has had fantasies about kicking the crap out of their old school bullies at some point. This would probably be a step too far but I'm sure being a badass merc teaching out of control youths a lesson would still be right up there.7/10 "},{"Title":"About as much fun as a basket of dead bunnies  ...........","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Berenger leads a group of mercenaries with questionable motives, on a search and destroy mission. Only problem is that this is not played out in some South American jungle, but in a Miami high school. This movie is about as much fun as a basket of dead bunnies. It is also so ridiculous that I have seen cartoons with more meaning. It's got an anti drug message all mixed up with Beringer's team looting the drug money to ( are you ready for this?) buy the underprivileged high school students electronic equipment and books. This is the point where I should have hit the stop eject button, but no I hung around for the final showdown where the high school is blown to smithereens. This is a movie to avoid, even for Tom Berenger fans. - MERK "},{"Title":"Dangerous Minds meets Death Wish","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you've seen Death Wish, The Principal, Dangerous Minds, 187, etc., then you'll know what to expect, and will enjoy The Substitute. High School High is also one example, but since that was mostly comedy, at least when Jon Lovitz was on-screen, that one doesn't really count. On the surface, this is formula, but what's interesting is that unlike the aforementioned movies, or any other similar movie, this one doesn't turn the students into achievers, and the teacher doesn't take anyone under his wing. It's basically a Stallone, or a Schwarzeneggar, or a Seagall movie disguised as a movie about a school in the city. Also, you don't immediately realize the principal is part of the gang activity. I enjoyed this movie not just because it's formula, but also because of some unexpected moments, too. I'll have to say though, that Berenger is no Stallone or Schwarzeneggar. I was expecting more from the character. And the scenes with just him and Diane Venra aren't all that interesting, because they don't have any purpose, other than to remind us she is recuperating, all because of one of her students.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Perfect hero movie","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is like the ultimate everyday action movie. It's pulp fiction with a human touch. Tom Berenger is a beautiful warm hearted human actor. He makes roles seem human. I guess the weakness in that, is that since it's so human and less flashy, it may very well be the reason he never became a huge star - just human. He's so underrated. Anyway he is a big part in making this movie your ultimate take it easy and enjoy flick. This movie knows right from wrong and it gives us the satisfaction in a non cheesy way of supporting our belief that good will win in the end. Maybe I should have given it a 10. Cause it's a classic and perfect in it's genre. I guess it's a B movie that gets an A big time.. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While this movie isn't the greatest example of it's genre, it is a very fun film.I started out with fairly low expectations. But the story concept sounded good so I thought I would give it a try. A few actors were too stiff, and one was too much of a ham, the rest of the cast gave fairly to very solid performances.I know some viewers liked the idea of teachers finally getting back at the bad students. That was only a minor concern to me. What I liked was the military assault specialist that discovers that he has a taste for teaching. I also like the idea that everyone is trying to figure out whom he is working for when he is working for himself. I didn't like the way most of his team dies in the final engagement.On the whole, it was much better than I was expecting and I would recommend it for people who want an interesting action movie with some funny moments but don't want to have to think much while watching it. "},{"Title":"A modest review by a modest man of a terrific movie","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Substitute is a rare timeless gems that many people will ignore because the mainstream media wasn't ready to handle the shear scope of this film.Tom Berenger plays a mercenary who solves and avenges his girlfriend's broken knee by infiltrating her school as a substitute teacher. The twist is that because the principal has insinuated police ties, Tom has no choice but to reassemble his team of commandos and go on a killing rampage that would make Rambo blush. Where most people would simply call law enforcement, Berenger would kill them all. There are some pretty major plot holes and the justification for many of the action scenes is laughable but this movie works because it doesn't take itself seriously. There is no reason that this movie can't be enjoyed by everyone and anyone. "},{"Title":"One of Berenger's Better Thrillers","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" FX director Robert Mandel's urban crime thriller The Substitute fuses elements of Blackboard Jungle with The Equalizer. In Blackboard Jungle, a teacher (Glenn Ford) tangled with savage, inner-city youth. In the CBS-TV thriller series The Equalizer, an urban security expert allowed his clients to resume life without fear from assailants.Tom Berenger stars as a covert operations specialist on holiday who finds himself back into the classroom to rumble with a drug czar and his killers. The action is as fast and as furious as one of the submachine guns fired in this larger-than-life, but exciting exercise in educational reform. Mandel and Street Trash scenarist Roy Frumkes, Substitute 2 scribe Rocco Simonelli, and Cat People writer Alan Ormsby have created an entertaining, suspenseful, sometimes amusing, melodrama with a minor surprise or two. Ghost Busters star Ernie Hudson registers splendidly as a corrupt high school principal who abuses his authority by allowing sales of narcotics on his premises.An earnest, forthright teacher Jane Hetzko (Diane Venora of True Crime) confronts high-ranking gang-banger Juan Lacas (Marc Anthony of Hackers) during a campus brawl, and he doesn't like the way that she talks to him so he threatens her. Later, as Jane is jogging by herself along the beach, a thuggish Seminole confronts her and cracks one of her knee caps with a bat. Jane's off-again, on-again boyfriend Jonathan Shale (Tom Berenger of the Sniper movies)tangles briefly with the brute before the brute escapes. Jane lands in the hospital and Shale takes care of her. Shale calls for Jane's usual substitute, but the man isn't available. Instead, Shale gets one of his mercenary buddies, Rem (Luis Guzmán of Anger Management), to put him into the school's computer system as James Smith with three diplomas from prestigious Ivy League universities. Shale has the time to devote to Jane's problem, because his men and he have completed a mission that attracted too much international attention and he has to cool it for a while. Meantime, he keeps his surviving commandos in line and out of harm's way. A job to guard drug shipments comes up, but once our virtuous hero learns that he would be killing to ensure the safe passage of narcotics, he turns the job down cold and reprimands his comrade, Joey 6 (Raymond Cruz of The Rock) for setting up the interview.Instead, Shale masquerades as a substitute school teacher when he cannot get an actual substitute for Jane. He assembles his team and tells them that where drugs are concerned, money can be found in large quantities. This serves as their inducement to mobilize their special skills. Along the way, another caring teacher, Mr. Darrell Sherman (Glenn Plummer of Saw 2) gets in the way of the villains, particularly Claude Rolle (Ernie Hudson of Ghost Busters) and pays the ultimate price. The heroes and the villains turn the high school into a battlefield. The villains have stashed a lifetime's worth of cocaine in the school's maintenance garage and Hollan (William Forsythe of Once Upon A Time in America) rigs it up with explosives so when the bad guys go to retrieve it, they are blown up. Not all of the good guys survive this bullet-riddled shoot'em up. The Substitute ranks as an above-average thriller. "},{"Title":"What a great action classic!","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Berenger, why are you not in the same position Bruce Willis and Stallone are in now? The Substitute is every bit as good as Die Hard and Rambo, switching these backgrounds for a gritty school in LA.Berenger stars as Shale (isn't that a great name for an action hero?), a battle scarred mercenary who's still haunted by a number of casualties after a recent mission to Cuba. He gets home to find his girlfriend (Diane Venora), a teacher, kneecapped, most likely a result of her resistance to drug kingpin/student Juan Lackas (Marc Anthony).Shale gets the remaining members of his mercenary team together for a crackdown on the corruption of not only the students, but the possibly sleazy Principal Claude Rolle (Ernie Husdon). (That's a classic badguy name too, Claude Rolle.) The backgrounds are real, and the school itself is a great symbol. It's covered in graffiti, which adds to the gravity the films produces. Another thing, The Substitute never, at any point, gets unrealistic. Things explode as they must in an action picture, but at a level that always feel legitimate and not too fake.This is an action classic, and it's a mystery to me why it hasn't been inducted into the same hall of fame category as Rambo and Die Hard. Well worth your money. "},{"Title":"I agree with Strauss....Forsythe is great","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Forsythe is my favorite supporting actor out there, even roles like this one he just shines through.  He's so good, it's almost funny given the context.  Whether it's this, or his bad guy role in Out For Justice, the man is just totally into his work and energized, a real pleasure to watch.  I love the scene where he tells the bad guy that he looks like a little snow angel when he's covered in cocaine, or when Forsythe is downstairs in the basement waiting for the bad guys and he's doing the Indian war dance around the drugs.  Berrigner is ok for this, but plays it too straight.  What works well are the guys that know how to have fun with the role, like Forsythe. "},{"Title":"Good, but hardly at Berenger's level","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was OK. Tom Berenger is a CIA agent living in Miami whose wife is beat up by a gang member so Berenger goes undercover a substitute teacher at a high school where many of the gang members go. He pretends to be a teacher and disciplines students, but after school he is fully armed and going after the violent gang members led by their leader Juan Lacas (played by singer Marc Anthony). Berenger eventually finds out that the drug-smuggling operation that the gang runs out of the school is helped out by the school principal, who was Berenger's former friend. This was a pretty good film, and had plenty of action and gunbatles, but it was not nearly as good as other Tom Berenger films such as Platoon, Sniper, and others. It makes a good rental for a rainy day but it becomes incredibly unbelievable in the ending sequence where a huge gunbattle erupts inside the high school involving gang members and CIA agents with huge machine guns. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments.  "}{"Title":"Good action film","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Shale is a substitute teacher at a school where the headmaster imports drugs. The pupils soon learn that he isn't to messed with. He refuses to teach one pupil in his class who helps the headmaster with the drugs. Then Shale finds out more and then tries to defeat the headmaster. If you're looking for a great action film look no further. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"not bad but it's been done","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Berenger is well-cast as a professional mercenary who travels to Miami to visit old girlfriend Venora, a beleaguered teacher at a gang-ridden, drug-infested high school where the students seem to run things and the teachers are just puppets. When she's attacked at random by an unknown assailant, he suspects that it's not a coincidence and takes over her class to try and find the culprit. Not surprisingly, he ends up being an influential teacher who tries to encourage his students to do the right thing. Contrived, to say the least, the film delivers the usual messages about school violence and the evils of gang membership, but good action scenes and effective casting make it at least worth a look if you're in the mood. ** "},{"Title":"'Unbelievable' Action in Local High School!!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In some ways, you'd WANT a guy like Shale - A.K.A. Smith (Tom Berenger) - to sub at your local high school if the school is THIS dangerous! Most of the kids look like adults & they 'play' with guns like they were toys while trying to protect their 'drugstore', the school!  But the story goes like this -Shale's an ex-mercenary seeking out whoever it was who beat up his teacher-girlfriend (who BTW, looks MUCH too young for the craggy yet eternally handsome Berenger! I thought she was his daughter when he went to her home until they began trying to get romantic on the couch while her broken leg kept getting in the way!) So he fakes all the right credentials to get into the school by substituting. He finds her attacker, impresses the students with his 'don't mess with me' attitude, discovers a huge drug ring that the principal (Ernie Hudson) is running inside the school & calls for 'back-up' from his other ex-mercenary pals when this unbelievable action film is almost at its end. How much death can a high school stand?!I kept wondering all thru this film how come no one ever called the cops! Until I realized they were also on the take. Teens will like this film & will remember Berenger by it. If they see him in nothing else (& he's done films MUCH better than this in terms of storyline),  they'll remember him in this. Oh, one memorable scene - When Shale helps the librarian lady to her feet, that killer smile of his lights up the screen! The camera stays on him long enough for you to keep in mind that this guy really does have a more human side! All throughout, he's quite the stone-faced 'non-expressionist'. But in this one scene, his smile is the scene STEALER! Watch for it!  "},{"Title":"The only Berenger movie I own!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE SUBSTITUTE is the only Tom Berenger movie I own -- because it shows him playing a character that is fairly sympathetic and NOT merely a militaristic bully, as has been his earlier roles.  His granite-fisted, metal-jacketed action scenes are tempered by his humanity-driven scenes that reveal his concern for the students' education (sort of a TO SIR, WITH TOUGH LOVE). "},{"Title":"Very well rounded action feature","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie could not have been made any better.  The story keeps you interested.  Sure, there are points where it's predictable, but there are points that can very easily throw you off.  In addition, the cast (namely Tom Berenger, Ernie Hudson, Marc Anthony, Glenn Plummer, and Raymond Cruz) made it believable.  The soundtrack was well produced and fit the film as well. "},{"Title":"Behold the Power of Cheese!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I actually liked this movie. Good action, good hero, and good action sequences. Ernie Hudson makes a mean villan and Tom Berenger is a decent hero. Good movie to watch when you're not in the mood to think about it. "},{"Title":"a cheesy, but good action flick","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  yeah, it's cheesy as hell and at some points it's downright stupid, but it's still kinda a cool flick.  Tom Berenger stars as Shale, a mercenary who returns to his Miami home and discovers a local gang is harassing his girlfriend.  Seeking vengeance, he goes undercover in a high school, posing as a substitute teacher, and he is determined to rid the community of this threat.  Their are some effective action scenes, especially the one at the end, and Ernie Hudson gives a solid performance as the Principle of the high school.  Anyways, if you're a fan of B-action flicks you might wanna check this out. "},{"Title":"10","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  People Look At This As An Action Flick But True It Has Action But This Movie Is Damn Funny And I Did Not Notice Tom Beringer Is A Comic.If You Want To Laugh Buy Or Rent This Movie. "},{"Title":"above similar fare","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Substitute tracks the exploits of a mercenary, Tom Berenger, who enters a Miami high school to find the students responsible for an attack on his girlfriend.  When inside, Berenger realizes that this tough high school has an even darker secret.  Corruption, guns, and lots of action.  Ernie Hudson, as the principal of the high school, and Berenger place this film above similar fare.  "},{"Title":"Good Action Flick","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A well done entertaining action movie. Tom Berenger gave a good performance. Maybe this is the future of educational defense. Just kidding. Anyway see this movie if you are in the mood to be entertained. Just don't look for logic "}{"Title":"just a complete stinker","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was up late flicking through the channels the other night, and stumbled across The Substitute on HBO.  Good grief in heaven this one is a stinker ! There were several points during the movie where I wanted to turn the TV off, but just couldn't - I was stuck in a kind of personal nightmare, unable to believe how bad this movie was.This is one of the worst written, worst directed, worst acted movies I have ever seen.  Once again an inner city high school is portrayed so stereotypically.  Once again Tom Berenger plays a mindless Van Damme wannabe.  Once again the writing in an action movie is so bad that it is unintentionally funny.   I suppose that's what kept me going this movie was so bad it was funny.From a pure action standpoint, the scene where Tom Berenger confronts the punks in the library is telling.  The punks are running with guns, helped by the principal's security guards, through a PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL.That is just the beginning of the absurdities present in this film.Not quite as bad as Child's Play 3 Chucky Gets Lucky, or Leprechaun (tied for worst movie ever made), but not far from it.   "},{"Title":"William Forsythe was robbed of an Oscar Nomination for his brilliant performance here!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seriously though, this movie sucks, and I mean big time. However, William Forsythe is so over the top, such a magnificent set chewer, that he actually made me laugh at this movie (albeit in a bad way). What kind of people write stuff like this? Moreover, who then gives them the greenlight? Honestly, this movie is an atrocity, with a cast that deserves better. Among them are Law and Order,Platoon,Ghostbusters, and Adam Sandler alums. My advice, avoid it, yet if you're still curious, tune in for the masterful performance by Forsythe. You'll know what I mean if you see it! 0/10  "},{"Title":"Gritty but overlong, and not all that exciting to be frank with you&#x85;","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" (Plot) A mercenary is reunited with his fiancé after a failed mission in Cuba. The kids have a habit of terrorizing Jane and she ends up succumbing to injury. Tom Berenger is forced to take over her responsibilities and become the substitute teacher. He may have gotten a little more than he bargained for. Maybe it was Tom Berenger's stone faced performance, maybe it was the dullness that permeated for the whole movie, or maybe it was because I had nobody to root for. The answer? all of the above. It does have some scenes that are quite intense and gritty, but it's not nearly as powerful as it likes to believe. It does have a nice little twist near the end, but that's about it. Tom Berenger is pretty wooden here in my opinion. His stone faced performance got on my nerves. Diane Venora is fitfully sassy as the fiancée. She did well. William Forsythe, Luis Guzman and others add good supportFinal Thoughts I don't remember a whole lot about this movie. It wasn't terrible, just mundane and not very interesting. I'd check out other films if I were you. Followed by three DTV sequels which I have yet to see. 4.3/10 "},{"Title":"Praying for detention...","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Berenger stars as Shale, a mercenary who becomes the substitute teacher taking in for his girlfriend after she is temporarily crippled by the gangs that run the school, figuring out that the principal is in on it, Berenger and his crew of mercenaries (William Forsythe and Luiz Guzman among them) break up a drug ring while Berenger actually likes to teach. Tom Berenger is quite convincing in the mercenary role but not so convincing in the teacher sequences which ultimately leaves one chuckling at the situations. This movie is of course the ultimate teacher's wish fulfillment as Berenger sends students packing through the window and then even manages to engage in hand to hand combat with said students. It is a ridiculous movie but because the action sequences are handled with excitement we cave in and accept the movie on it's own terms. This isn't a great movie but it is a decent guilty pleasure and I for one loved the moment when Berenger said Ssh no talking in the library! right before he pushes a table into the students in question.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"The original (but not the best)","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Shale is an ex-marine visiting his high school love Jane who is now a teacher at a troubled school.  During his visit Jane has her kneecap broken by a gang at the school called the Kings of Destruction.  Shale goes undercover as a substitute teacher in Jane's class and finds evidence that drugs are being sold within the school possibly with the support of someone inside the school.  Shale reforms some of his old crew and prepares for the inevitable war.It's hard to judge this as one movie now that there are about 4 copies of it made as sequels.  However this is the first one and unfortunately not the best one. The plot is basic and isn't used too well.  The drama is clichéd and the action is either average or OTT in many cases.  The film does prove entertaining but only if you turn off your brain and get lost in it's macho world of marines and fighting!Berenger is a more believable marine than Treat Williams (parts 2-4) but not a better actor, so he is a bit too gruff and combat ready &#150; he's OK but behind his eyes you can see a sadness that reveals his inner longing for Oliver stone to come and rescue him with another good role!  Forsythe is OK and begins the `Things to do in Denver When You're Dead' connection that continues in every film and Hudson is good (but predicable) as the first of the Oz connections (BD Wong is in the second!).Overall this is an average action movie that is a little uneven and has no real surprises.  It's good for chilling out in front of and will hold the interest even if it never raises the pulse of the IQ! "},{"Title":"Mixture of the Principal and well uhm an action film","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a film that reminded me a lot of The Principal (with James Belushi), for it is also about crimes at a high school. Nonetheless this film is different than the Principal. It is not better I guess but it is quite solid, still. The story is OK, for it is sometimes a bit obvious what is going to happen next. The acting is pretty good and the action is pretty good too. What this film lacks though is serious identification with a character. You are not really touched the deaths of several good guys and that is a pity, for there are one or two elements of emotion in this one, that could have been developed more. Also you were not at the edge of your seat during the film. What I really liked though was, that there were some funny elements in this film too, that made it a bit lighter to the heart.Small 7 (like 6,5)  out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not more than an average movie!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Here, Tom BERENGER again, plays a vietnam veteran who this time shows his skills in high school, to prevent some gang kids from the drugs and so on. A bit entertaining but that´s it, Maybe he should do movies like PLATOON or SNIPER, in which such mercenary-performances will come better to play. I can not recommend this movie, try it but don´t think you´re gonna be overwhelmed. "},{"Title":"** out of 5","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unbelievable thriller stars Tom Berenger as a mercenary who poses as a teacher to take revenge as a teacher to take revenge on the gang who beat up his girlfriend. What could be a very powerful drama in the same vein as Dangerous Minds fails due to the fact that Berenger is not threatening in the least bit and then the movie turns into a violent action flick? The only worth while part of this film is the action packed ending even though it takes place in the halls of a school and isn't really given any logical explanation for happening. Best avoid this uneven mish mash of action and drama, "},{"Title":"i wish it had more action","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie was not bad.it's a little too dramatic for my tastes.there is some action,just not as much as i'd hoped for.i was bored for a lot of it.there's a lot of talking in this movie,but nothing memorable about that aspect.the concept has likely been done before.a new substitute takes over teaching duties usually in a classroom full of troubled teens/gang members,delinquents,etc.but this sub is no ordinary sub.he has skills.in fact he isn't actually a teacher.but he pretend to be.he has ulterior motives.usually,someone he knows has been either killed or seriously injured.so he poses as a teacher to find out the truth.he usually teaches the students,some of them anyway,respect for themselves and tries to get them on the right track in life.that's pretty much the plot line for the substitute,among other similar movies.if you like that kind of movie,and you don't mind a fair amount of dialogue,with a bit of action,you might like The Substitute.i didn't like it all that much,so i'd have to give it a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Could have been good","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers ***************************** I cannot believe this film got 5.3, i think it should have 2.0 at the most.This film is bad but also very funny(because of the badness) and as i watched this masterpiece i felt sorry for Tom Berenger and how his career has gone downhill since Platoon.Its like this, Tom berenger is an ex U.S Marine who becomes a Subsitute at a high school,whos Principal(Big Ernie Hudson)is a drug dealer(!!!!).From then on we see Berengers character making enemies of some of the rather old looking kids who are also armed to the teeth with guns.But this isnt a problem for Tom,when they confront him in the school libary he throws them all out of a window to the ground which is about 30ft below, but they all just get up brush themselves down and walk away(!?).This film then gets worse and some things happen, and isnt interesting again until the last scenes.One of the scenes involves a teacher who has rumbled Ernies operation and gets caught.To try and escape the Drug dealers,he climbs up a rope in the school hall/gym and gets shot.I couldnt quite work that scene out, maybe he was looking for a door in the ceiling but either way he gets killed.Then Berenger and his gang of ex US marines assault the school to get at Ernie Hudson and his nasty friends and it goes on until, Bad guys dead, Berengers gang alive.Thats it all over.One last thing though,One of Berengers friends(the mexican with the bobble on his head)gets killed and im certain of this about 5 minutes before the end,but at the end of the film he greets Berenger and walks away with a limp!? If anyone is thinking of making a sequel,heres some advise Hire Actors and dont make the same mistake as the first Director. 2.0/10 V E R Y   B A D "}{"Title":"Very Silly","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone remember Tom Berenger ? He was quite a prolific actor in the late 1980s fresh from his success as the bad guy in PLATOON , and was in my humble opinion one of the more convincing tough actors of that era , but for some inexplicable reason soon find himself starring in more and more low budget , low quality projects . Worse he now finds himself playing supporting roles in low budget , low quality straight to video projectsTHE SUBSTITUTE was made when Berenger`s career was in free fall and as you`d expect it`s hardly impressive material . Some of my disappointment might be down to how the story plays out , seeing as it`s about a former merc becoming a teacher in an inner city ghetto school in Miami I was expecting something along the lines of DANGEROUS MINDS , but this movie plays out totally different . In many ways it`s like a revenge thriller produced by Cannon from the 1980s with some absolutely ridiculous plot twists and bizarre scenes which is unforgivable because THE SUBSTITUTE is a good film in parts , namely when Mr Smith talks about his experiences in `Nam . This would have worked far , far better as a drama rather than a thriller    "}]