[{"Title":"Deeply flawed but compelling","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"41 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this first in the now defunct Capitol Cineplex in Cork. I was surprised to see so many senior citizens in the cinema. The cineplex was so scummy it had to be something special to draw them in. Some of them might have been old enough to remember the civil war or at least to have had a close family member killed in it. Many of them were clearly moved by it particularly the end with its archive footage. It is a moving film, but you have to be careful. One should never confuse history with entertainment and this is not a history lesson. All the major events are there, but there is a horrible bias from the director. I don't like DeValera or what he stood for, but what was hinted at the end in this movie is a travesty. If such a thing is true, you have to prove it, you can't slyly hint at it. There are other insidious things such as mortars and car-bombs which are clear reference to the 1970s-90s Northern conflict. Such weapons did not exist in 1916. To me this is an oblique way of implying that the Provos are somehow the legitimate heirs of the IRA in 1916 which of course they are not. Despite this I enjoyed the movie a lot. The production values and acting was so good, it really felt like a timewarp. Neil Jordan is a great director, Neeson and Rickman are superb in their parts. Rickman looks so much like DeValera it is uncanny. I even liked Julia Roberts. It looks like she made a fair attempt at a Dun Laoghaire accent and of course it sounded phony. Southside Dublin accents all sound phoney to me anyway so I didn't mind. The best moment was the scene where Collins starts the civil war sitting behind a howitzer aimed at the Four Courts and fires. You can see a huge explosion and bits coming out portico. I actually felt scared that they had damaged this famous Dublin landmark. This won't mean much to someone from overseas, but anyone familiar with the Four Courts and the resident lawyers (sorry barristers) in their eighteenth century costumes would surely enjoy firing an artillery piece at the overpaid clowns. I wish I had a howitzer like that. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"32 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is an excellent portrayal of the brutal and often non-conventional Irish freedom struggle. The movie has several great strengths. The biggest strength is Liam Neeson in his tour-de-force. His acting in this movie is as good as it gets. His personality changes subtly throughout the movie, becoming increasingly affected by the changes of the world around him. The supporting cast is also excellent, with Rickman in one of his best roles.Cinematography is very nice, capturing everything from the hopelessness of the defeats in the ashy cities to the beauty of the Irish landscapes. The pacing is very good as well.If you saw this movie with no opinion on the Irish history, you will have one when you leave the theater. This shows to me how powerful this movie is. After all, Michael Collin's tactics were not pretty, everything from car-bombings to mob-style executions. Yet we still care for him, we want him to succeed, even if he himself isn't sure he wants to.Without it's politics, this movie is still excellent. It's a great piece of movie-making, it's involving, sad, funny and sometimes tense. One of the movies I consider classic. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a very touching film. I was shocked to see the IMDb score of 6.8. The only major fault of this film is Julia Roberts. She really takes a wonderful film and turns it down a few notches. She can't keep an Irish accent, switching back and forth with her American accent throughout the duration of the film. Anyway, Michael Collins is great to watch. The story is heartfelt, and the nuances between personal battles and patriotic duty are displayed in a very mature fashion - - to what extent will you go for your country? What will you lose? Who will you fight? Why will you do any of it? Who are your true friends? etc. The music is FANTASTIC. Worth renting just for the listen. Of course Neison is great. So is Aidin Quinn (when I first saw this movie I thought Quinn was Irish given his name and his performance here). Alan Rickman is Alan Rickman - - which is great, though he doesn't pull off the Irish thing too well. However, given his character, Eamon de Valera, it isn't really a miscast, just takes time to get in.If you can ignore how horrible Julia Roberts is and think about the heart and emotion behind this film while enjoying the awesome score you're in for a treat. A jewel in the rough. (my favorites) "},{"Title":"Effective recapitulation of Irish struggle for independence but British point of view is sorely lacking","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Director Neil Jordan was at the height of his fame following his great success with The Crying Game when he was finally able to convince film investors to fund Michael Collins, a project which was 10 years in the making. I knew little about the history of the struggle for Irish independence but after seeing this film, it propelled me to do a little research. As a history lesson Michael Collins does well in covering the main historical points but Jordan does little in presenting the British point of view.The film begins with the Easter Rising of 1916, a violent protest in Dublin which resulted in the defeat and arrest of the leaders amongst the Irish rebels. What Jordan doesn't let on here is that the rebellion was not at all popular with the Irish people and the tide didn't turn until the British executed the majority of the rebels following the rebellion.Liam Neeson does well in playing Collins as a dynamic, strong character but Collins was around thirty when the events of the film takes place and Neeson was about 14 years older. If you're willing to forgive the age difference, Neeson is quite believable as the fiery Irish leader who is still regarded as a George Washington figure amongst the contemporary Irish populace.Jordan is at his best when he dispassionately regurgitates the sequence of events that led to the establishment of Ireland as a free state and the resulting civil war. Of particular note are the gripping scenes of escalating violence Collins is a beaten by the Royal Irish Constabulary after speaking at an election rally; Collins recruits a squad of killers who murder 14 members of the MI5 Cairo Gang and the ensuing act of genocidal revenge taken by the Black and Tans paramilitary force at a soccer match; the IRA attack on the Custom House which Collins opposed as he knew the British would easily win; the attack on Collins after the treaty with the British, at an anti-Treaty Republican rally; the offensive against the The Four Courts by the anti-Treaty side of the IRA, despite Collins' bitter opposition; and the ambush of Collins, resulting in his death.Also of great interest is the conflict between Collins and Eamon de Valera (played by an effective Alan Rickam) who early on felt that Collins was acting on his own. The actual split between the two leaders is foreshadowed when de Valera goes to meet President Woodrow Wilson in order to gain recognition of the IRA's objectives and takes Collins' best friend and constant companion, Harry Boland, with him. Eventually de Valera orders Collins to negotiate the treaty with the British over his objections that he's not a diplomat. And it was de Valera who split with Collins over the terms of the treaty which broke Ireland into two and still had the new Irish Free State swearing allegiance to the Crown.What's most fascinating about Collins is that initially he was regarded as a terrorist by the British but after negotiating the treaty between Ireland and the UK, he was now regarded as a moderate. In fact, during the Irish civil war, the British supplied arms to Collins' forces who eventually defeated the anti-Treaty faction. Jordan argues that Collins' targets were either brutal forces of the British intelligence service or Irish collaborators, not innocent civilians. Whatever the case, Collins, who was yesterday's terrorist now became today's dignified statesman.Jordan unfortunately leaves out the British side of the story. Instead, they're all evil or supporters of evil. Jordan is not adverse to twisting historical facts to make the British seem worse. The scene of the massacre at the soccer match is exaggerated&#x97;no armored vehicle entered the premises and machine gunned people in the stands. A British Court of Inquiry found that the actions of the paramilitary group was carried out without orders and exceeded the demands of the situation. The commander of the Dublin District stated that the firing on the crowd was carried out without orders, was indiscriminate, and unjustifiable, with the exception of any shooting which took place inside the enclosure. Nonetheless it was also true that this inquiry was suppressed by the British government. The King of England and some British politicians expressed their horror at the Bloody Sunday massacre and such a public relations disaster did much to strengthen the hand of de Valera's government, eventually leading to the peace treaty between Ireland and England.The killing of the double agent Irish detective who aided Collins, Ned Broy, also appeared to be designed by Jordan to manipulate the audience into hating the British even more. Broy is actually a composite character of three people. While people were tortured by the British (particularly those who were involved in the assassinations of British intelligence agents on Bloody Sunday), Broy lived well into his 80s.Jordan's decision to take a few liberties with historical events and characters doesn't seem so bad in light of his overall success in depicting the chronology of events in the Irish fight for independence and its aftermath. Nonetheless, aside from Collins (and perhaps de Valera) most of the other characters in the drama are unremarkable and certainly Julia Roberts has little to do as the love interest between Collins and sideman Boland.While necessary, after a while, many of the violent goings on in Michael Collins, felt more like a docudrama. Only when the conflict between de Valera and Collins heats up, can one say that the narrative becomes truly compelling. Again what's missing is the British point of view (and perhaps a singular antagonist) which could have added to the efficaciousness of this well staged period piece. "},{"Title":"Historical Biopic Falls Flat","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Neil Jordan's historical biopic about Michael Collins, the man who fought for a free Ireland in the early 20th Century, has its heart in the right place, but it just doesn't work. I'm not sure why it doesn't work exactly, because it's got a good central performance from Liam Neeson, an intelligent screenplay and handsome production design. Despite all of those qualities, however, it just sits on the screen like a lead paperweight.One thing that definitely IS wrong with the film is Julia Roberts, horribly miscast and giving a lame performance. Roberts is far too contemporary an actress ever to be convincing in a period piece, and she's not a good enough actress to fake it.Grade C "},{"Title":"Fiction","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading through the comments here, I am appalled at the number of people who are willing to take this as gospel - please don't!!  The scenes of the Rising and the Civil War are quite accurate (barring such things as carbombs, which someone else has already mentioned) though grossly oversimplified.  Kitty Kiernan does not deserve the major part she has been given in this film - Michael Collins was never that interested in women. I have to stress, as someone else has, that there were the Auxiliaries as well as the Black and Tans (so called incidentally, because there were not enough field uniforms to go round, so they were a hodge-podge of different uniforms), and the Auxiliaries, the officiers, were discernably worse than the rank and file.  Also, the fighting did nto affect most of the country. A note on the casting - the character of Kitty Kiernan was nto that big, though I think she was given more screen time as she was played by Julia Roberts.  Someone tell this woman that she CANNOT do accents.  Alan Rickman was more Sheriff of Nottingham than de Valera.  Aiden Quinn as Harry Boland wasn't bad, though I would have to quibble about the character, but I feel that is more the fault of the writers than him.  And lastly, sorry though I am to say it, Liam Neeson doesn't even compare to Brendan Gleeson's performance as Collins in 1992's The Treaty, even his accent wasn't quite right. For those who would like to know what really happened, I would recomment 'The Treaty', Tim Pat Coogan's biography (though he is a tad biased) and T. Ryle Dwyer's 'Big Fellow, Long Fellow', which is a joint biography of de Valera and Collins. This film is a real disappointment.  I would have to repeat Bono's statement - 'I'm sick of Irish Americans come up to me, and tell me about the Revolution back home ... that the majority of people in my country don't want', which, unfortunately are the kind of sentiments that this film has engendered. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Cinematography Highlight This Biography","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"21 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I didn't know if Hollywood was distorting history but someone who knows the story of Michael Collins assured me this was a pretty accurate portrayal of him in here, which makes this film go even higher in my ratings, because it's definitely entertaining and is spectacularly photographed. There is more blue color in here - beautiful blue - than in any movie I've ever seen. It looks just gorgeous on DVD.Liam Neeson's charismatic portrayal of Collins keeps you riveted to the screen, even though it's a fairly long movie. Julia Roberts and Alan Rickman seemed a bit miscast. Being American and British, respectively, they weren't quite believable as Irishmen, perhaps because I'm used to hearing them as they normally talk. I also don't like to hear the Lord's name in vain so often as what was in here, but that seems commonplace among the Irish, at least in all the movies I've seen and books I've read (and my relatives, half of whom are Irish!) Anyway, this is a very interesting story with a nice combination of drama, action and romance. Very much recommended regardless of anyone's stance on Irish-English relations. "},{"Title":"Flawed but a good film nonetheless ....","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What worries me about films based on historical characters and events, is that a lot of people take them at face value and accept them as fact whereas very few of them are completely accurate, and this film is no exception. However, despite the inaccuracies and speculations, it's a good film. Liam Neeson in particular gives a great performance in the title role, really bringing the complexities of the character to life. Rickman is also good as DeValera. Julia Roberts is horribly miscast and I can only think she was in it to boost box office ratings - although I would have hardly thought that necessary with Neeson and Rickman as the main characters. To be fair her character was pretty superfluous anyway and only included to add some romantic interest.Overall it's worth a watch, although if you really want to know about the British/Irish conflict read a book! "},{"Title":"800 years in the making of a revolutionary man seizes his chance to for freedom","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i was learning about 1916 and the Michael Collins as a man in my leaving cert in Ireland when this film came out in Ireland in 1916 his dream inspired hope his words ignited passion his courage forged a nation destiny Neil Jordan directed a film with the best of nearly Irish or Irish American actors they played their part with Liam nesson as Collins Alan rick man as Dev Valera as president Stephen Rea as Irish detective broy Julia Roberts playing the love interest of both Collins and harry boland kitty Kiernan she has a pivotal role Michael Collins was an inspiring man like the movie stand stall this man is a hero whose fighting tactics became a model for other 2o century struggles a statesman who negotiated Irelands break from England as Dev Valera made him a scapegoat a political martyr for the greater cause he lived and breathed this movie portrays Dev Valera as getting Collins to sign a treaty and then allegedly get him killed this film see the g men kill the important English men in Dublin bringing tactics straight to Lloyd George government at 2hrs I gave it 7/10 my 153 review this Irish history not be forgotten 800years in the making "},{"Title":"Great historical piece","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Anyone interested in history especially that pertaining to how Ireland broke away from the United Kingdom and became it's own country definitely should check out this movie.Liam Neeson was born to play Michael Collins, can't think of any other actor who would've been appropriate to play this role. Aidan Quinn and Alan Rickman were both also great in their roles. Julia Roberts gets way too much hate for her role in this movie. She was perfectly fine in her role and if anyone else without the attention that she brings had been in that role it wouldn't have gotten all the negative reaction that it had gotten. "}{"Title":"There is no history, only biography, Ralph Waldo Emerson.","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fiction heavy bio-pic of the man who lived and died for Irish independence.History on film is a difficult beast at the best of times and no one - and I mean no one - could produce an uncontentious film about Michael Collins The Irish rebel rouser and politician who helped (the key word) form the first Irish Free State.Sadly writer/director Neil Jordan takes the view that the history book can be tossed away if it goes against his own agenda or hampers audience sympathy. He created a stick for reviewers to hit him with - and boy did the blows rain down on his head. These blows, alone, might have killed any chance this difficult film had at the box office.(It went down like a lead balloon in America which shows that behind the bluster and flag waving most Irish-American's aren't really interested in their own history.)If only they had stuck more closely to the uncontested facts film writers would have focused on the good things. Which include excellent cinematography (good use of filters) and first class performances from all bar the all-at-sea (and mostly unneeded) Julia Roberts.A perfect example of the Hollywood of today All perfect teeth and good looks, but no ability to do characters or accents. I actually cringed while she was speaking in her Irish accent!(The producers don't help much either by dressing her in a range of expensive outfits that change between shots Destroying any sense of her being a poor country girl! Indeed scenes of poverty seems to be avoided rather than played upon.)Liam Neeson was born to play Collins both physically and temperamentally, a dream part for him. There isn't a second that I don't believe in him. Shame there isn't more parts like this for him to play.I don't mind my country being the bad guy in this movie, because we deserve it. What we did in Ireland will always be a stain on our history, but where is the context? The two countries have always been closely intertwined - not only due to geography but also due to wealth and technology reasons.Also to be understood is that British troops had no experience of civil war or terrorism. They had been fighting wars against a uniformed enemy that stood in front of them. The people that joined up were often criminals or people that couldn't find alternative employment; or even wanted a bit of adventure in their lives. Here their enemy dressed in civilian clothes and shot at them in the street (often from point blank range) and then ran. The people they killed were often Irish police or suspected informers. It was very ugly, but it was ugly on both sides.There was also plenty of infighting (of the literal variety) that was more about gangsterism than Irish politics A side road this film doesn't want to wander down.The film also takes the view that violence was the only path. South African apartheid crashed without the blacks winning any kind of civil war - indeed theirs probably extended the run of the white elite. Times move on, to quote Ghandi, all tyrannies must fall.... however strong they appear at the time.Despite everything this is an important film and Neil Jordan's best so far. It has too many little truths about power and real politics to be ignored easily and it does expose one Irish hero as a weasel. Watch the film to see which one.A lot of responsibility fell on Neil Jordan's shoulders making this. It is a one-off deal. It isn't like a book, there won't be another Michael Collins film next year. More people - world-wide- will gain information about him from this film than any other medium. Therefore the hodgepodge mix of fact and fiction makes me uneasy - especially when so many of the debates and politics that are raised here are still ongoing. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of the past few years","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a brilliant account of the life of Michael Collins.  It starts with the Easter Rising of 1916 and ends with his death in 1922.  Between that time he managed to negotiate the first treaty of Independence for Ireland.  Liam Neeson  does brilliantly as the big fella and Aidan Quinn also is brilliant at portraying Collin's best friend Harry Boland.  Apart from these other great stars in the film are Alan Rickman, Stephen Rea, Charles Dance, Ian Hart and Julia Roberts.  Unfortunately some events portrayed in the film are historically incorrect and you get the feeling they were only included to add more drama to the film.This is definetly a film worth watching and the DVD is even better, featuring a documentary on the real Michael Collins. "},{"Title":"Neeson's Battle Cry.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Michael Collins (1996) Dir Neil Jordan / Cast Liam Neeson, Aiden Quinn, Alan Rickman, Julia Roberts, Stephen Rea Informative war film about a war hero. In takes place in flashbacks from 1916 to 1922 and involved Britain and Ireland. Michael Collins was a freedom fighter who dies of assassination. It regards the war and his speaking against other leaders in the quest for freedom. Rousing score with tremendous production that render the mood. It is predictable in structure but never dull. Directed by Neil Jordan as an observant character study. He previously made The Crying Game as well as Interview With a Vampire. He often addresses controversial issues in his films and here is no different. Liam Neeson is perfectly cast as Collins and brings authority to the role. Julia Roberts is featured as his fiancée who bears the bad news in the conclusion but she is also the recipient to the flashbacks that viewers are subjected to. Aiden Quinn is featured as one of Collins's close friends in the fight who becomes a reason for him to slow down. Alan Rickman appears more negatively in opposition of sorts. Stephen Rea plays a detective who tips off Collins. Too many scenes seems to request tears when only certain moments are required it. Insightful film about leadership and freedom and the destruction that must be paid to obtain it. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Michael Collins Film review","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film Michael Collins by Neil Jordan tells the story of Michael Collins (Liam Neeson), one of the main revolutionary leaders of the IRA that, through guerrilla warfare, managed to establish the first Irish Parliament, aka the Dáil Éireann, in spite of Britain's protests. The movie starts right after the Easter Rising in 1916 where Éamon de Valera (Alan Rickman) was caught and imprisoned. With de Valera unable to direct the IRA from prison, Michael Collins took the lead and with his best friend Harry Boland (Aidan Quinn) organized several operations and assassinations that would weaken Britain's power over Ireland. In 1921, the British become willing to negotiate and Collins is sent to London to establish a treaty. He returns with a compromise, where an Irish Free State would be established, but the North and the rest of Ireland would be separated. This of course creates a conflict as de Valera is strongly against it, but after the Treaty is approved of by the Dáil, de Valera and his followers resign in protest. A civil erupts, with Collins (now Chief of Staff of the National Army) on one side and de Valera on the other one, but after the Battle of Dublin, the IRA has to retreat from the city. Harry Boland, who stayed on de Valera's side after the Anglo-Irish Treaty was signed, was shot by a sentry at the battle while trying to escape. Shortly after, Collins goes to County Cork to meet with de Valera, but is killed in an ambush Through the entire movie, there is a romantic triangle going on between Collins and Boland and a woman named Kitty Kiernan (Julia Roberts). At first, the woman did not really know which man she should settle with, but ended up with choosing Michael. This was probably one of the main reasons why Collins and Boland drifted apart and why Boland stayed on de Valera's side, instead of accepting the Treaty. After Michael's return from London, he proposes to Kitty who accepts, but unfortunately, Collins is skilled before the wedding happens. The last scene pictures Kitty crying at the news of Michael's death. The story is well-written and keeps more or less to the facts, even though of course there are some historical inaccuracies. That is to be expected from a movie that targets a large audience that is not very well-informed about Ireland's history and that is watching the film for the action and not for its historical value. The presence of Kitty, although a bit annoying in my opinion, is necessary as it provides a certain romantic relief from all the heavy scenes the audience is bombarded with. It would have been better if the audience got to know her better, since no reason of why both Collins and Boland are in love with her is provided. The acting was great, nothing more to say about that. I especially liked Alan Rickman who did a wonderful job portraying de Valera. Julia Robert's American accent does come through a few times, but it is not very noticeable. The actions scenes were good and the dark lighting provides an atmosphere through the entire film. Overall, it was a great experience. "},{"Title":"Irish History for a Hollywood Audience","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The main problem with Neil Jordan's film is how close he came to making the Dublin of 1916 seem brilliantly authentic and yet he throws that away by changing well known details in order to serve the story. Michael Collins is one of the most interesting politicians of the past 200 years and his story deserves to be be told on the big screen and for the most part Jordan does this well. Liam Neeson is perfect for the role, his natural charm and imposing frame being very close to how people remember Collins (His Cork accent is also impressive).There is also a lot to be said for Alan Rickman's depiction of De Valera but the addition of Julia Roberts reeks of 90s indulgence and is clearly pandering to a bigger audience and the film suffers heavily from her terrible range of accents (Dublin to Belfast to LA in one sentence!!) However the film is probably as close as anyone so far has got to depicting Dublin at that time and any film which features Charles Dance, Stephen Rea, Ian Heart, Aiden Quinn and Jonathan Rhys Meyers In supporting roles is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Dramatic, historic and heartfelt...","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Irish screenwriter, producer and director Neil Jordan's ninth feature film which he wrote, is inspired by real events in the life of an Irish politician named Michael Collins. It premiered In competition at the 53rd Venice Film Festival in 1996, was shot on location in Ireland and is an Ireland-UK-France co-production which was produced by producer Stephen Woolley. It tells the story about a 26-year-old Irish man from County Cork, Ireland named Michael Collins. In late April 1916 during the First World War in the capital city of Ireland, Michael, his friend named Harry Boland, the president of Ireland named Èamon de Valera and other Irish republicans in the paramilitary group called the Irish Volunteers takes part in a rebellion against British rule called the Easter Rising and is arrested by the British Army. After two years of imprisonment in England, Michael and Harry returns to Dublin, Ireland where they soon realize that they are being tailed by the Brits. They reside with their common friend, whom they both have a romantic interest in, named Kitty Kiernan and Michael becomes the newly established IRA's Minister of intelligence. Distinctly and precisely directed by Irish filmmaker Neil Jordan, this finely paced and somewhat fictional tale which is narrated from multiple viewpoints though mostly from the main character's point of view, draws an engaging and multifaceted portrayal of a politician and prominent member of the Irish Republican Army and his relationship with his country, his best friend, the Irish president and a woman named Kitty. While notable for it's naturalistic and atmospheric milieu depictions, sterling cinematography by English cinematographer and director Chris Menges, production design by English production designer Anthony Pratt and costume design by British costume designer Sandy Powell, this character-driven and narrative-driven story about a complex 20th century leader who was a significant figure in the Irish War of Independence, in the negotiations between England and Ireland regarding the constitutional status of Northern Ireland and the following Irish Civil War between the Free Staters and the Republicans depicts an in-depth and humane study of character and contains a great score by composer Elliot Goldenthal. This biographical, conversational, romantic, at times humorous and literary period drama from the late 1990s which is set mostly in Ireland during the late 1910s and early 1920s and where an ongoing war between two neighbouring countries makes people divided in their relationship to their homeland, causes more death and ruin than solidarity and makes one of its most dedicated participants more aware of the importance of peace, is impelled and reinforced by it's cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, efficient continuity, colorful characters, use of music, rhythmic transitions between action scenes and dialog scenes, the words spoken by the president of the Irish Republic  The Irish people established the Republic. and the poignant acting performances by Irish actor Liam Neeson, American actor Aidan Quinn, American actress Julia Roberts and English actor Alan Rickman. A dramatic, historic and heartfelt homage which gained, among other awards, the Golden Lion Neil Jordan and the Volpi Cup for Best Actor Liam Neeson at the 53rd Venice Film Festival in 1996. "},{"Title":"Freedom and Peace","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Liam Neeson dominates this biographical picture of the life of Michael Collins and the ultimate sacrifice he made to bring Ireland both freedom and peace. Freedom from the British Empire and peace to bring about some healing. Freedom they got, peace is still a dubious proposition in that country where they're still fighting the issues of the Reformation and Countereformation.The years covered are from 1916's Easter Rebellion until 1922 when Ireland was hip deep in a bloody civil war that ended only with exhaustion. Collins develops the strategy the prototype of urban guerrilla warfare. It's been used ever since in every part of the globe by whomever insurgents are.Having seen enough violence and caused enough of it Collins was sent by President Eamon DeValera as part of the negotiating team for a peace treaty. What they brought back was Dominion status for Ireland with the six Northern counties opting to remain in the British Empire and that King George V would be sovereign in Ireland. Collins saw it as a chance for the country to rest and heal with DeValera it was all or nothing. That split led to the civil war in Ireland far more bloody than the Rebellion as the casualties were 100% Irish.Playing DeValera is Alan Rickman and he fleshes out DeValera as the rather uptight manipulator of events and people that he was in real life. Julia Roberts who does not master an Irish brogue plays the woman in Collins's life whom he was going to marry. But casting Roberts was probably made strictly for box office.The details are fudged, but if you watch Michael Collins you'll get an idea from the film and from Neeson's performance of what the man was about and the sacrifice he made. "},{"Title":"Michael Collins an Unperson Recalled From Obscurity","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Collins shaped the IRA out of a nest of informants, drunks and melodramatic would-be martyrs into a fighting force. However the movie opens not with the formation of the underground army skilled in sleuth and carrying on a cloak and dagger war, but in failure The uprising on Easter Sunday 1916. Irish-born Liam Neeson stars as the Irish Patriot Michael Collins. In bringing to life a complex warrior and in competing with the eloquent portrait of a Rebel that American actor James Cagney created in Shake Hands With The Devil, Neeson advances no personal commitment to politics. Despite parts in films with Celtic themes, Neeson lacks Cagney's allegiances to the Irish cause. In 1999 Neeson joined Ronald Reagan as an Officer of the Order of British Empire (OBE).Michael Collin's times were without hope of tributes between the ancient enemies. On Easter Sunday 1916 the Irish Volunteers took over the main buildings in the city of Dublin. Forced to surrender, The leaders of the rebellion were executed. Confident that nothing more than the usual silly and flowery speeches would follow, the British released the remaining prisoners.In the war that followed Collins paid heed to lessons learned. As a warrior Collins carefully weighed the risks, avoided rash moves, direct confrontation and pitched battle. Collins organized an effective intelligence gathering operation and penetrated G division of Dublin City Police. After Dail Eireann (Irish Parliament) declared independence, Collins concentrated on a guerrilla war conducted by flying squads which carried out their mission and melted away. Demurely Collins cycled around British police and soldiers in the guise of a businessman, blithely imposing a death penalty on friends of the Crown.With success, Collins threatened the position of the nascent Irish Republic's president, Eamon de Valera.Alan Rickman plays Eamon de Valera the way Collins described him a be-speckled nit picker, a marked contrast to the tough but unassuming Collins.De Valera deplored the shot-in-the-back tactics favored by Collins. A plan was laid over Collins' objection for a raid on Dublin Castle. Collins who stressed hit and run and economy of lives predicted a failure on the proportion of 1916. The raid exacted a heavy toll on irreplaceable Volunteers. However de Valera correctly predicted that the raid would prove to be the final blow for British authorities. The burning of the customs house proved to the British that no target, however well defended, was immune from attack.The Michael Collins, played in the Liam Neeson movie , accurately portrays a man devoted to the cause. His strength in fighting a well-entrenched enemy is concentrating on vulnerable points with minimal damage to his own men. When the enemy tires from battles, Collins proves not to be as expert in the war of diplomacy and political machinations. Talks in London created an anomalous relationship with Britain Ireland was free or in the Empire depending on perspective. Collins went to London as a hero who had out-foxed the greatest military power on earth and returned home as the scapegoat with a treaty creating a state nominally neither independent nor tied to The Crown, but somewhere in a grey zone in between.Anxious to declare victory and restore peace, Dail Eireann (The Irish Parliament) supported Collins. Collins took command of evacuated British posts. At Dublin Castle, the symbol of British domination, Collins arrived seven and a half minutes late for the change of command, one minute for each century of occupation. Collins remarked to the British general after seven and half centuries we won't begrudge you seven and a half minutes. Not shown in the film is the Guardia's protest against the treaty They refused to post their colors until the British left the stronghold, an official military insult.Collins would have little time to bask in the moment. Where the revolution ends, the civil war begins. IRA units had taken over the Four Courts in Dublin in April. Free State troops (The Guardia) bombarded the building with British artillery. The Civil War had begun. Michael Collins under the cover of an inspection in Cork area was on his way to a peace parlay with the Rebel rebel DeVelera when his convoy was ambushed. Thousands of people lined the streets of Dublin for the funeral of Michael Collins. His adversary de Valera would later reflect It's my considered opinion that in the fullness of time, history will record the greatness of Collins and it will be recorded at my expense. From Da Valera's ascension to power until 1965 Collins remained un-person in the country he helped create. In the Jimmy Cagney movie of 1959, Collins is never named; he is referred to as 'The Commandant' and seen only as a shadow. But no stone wall can contain such a legend.The Director Neil Jordan could not have imagined anyone other than Liam Neeson in the lead role. Tall Neeson has the good-bad guy charm the American actor James Cagney believed necessary to such a role the swagger of a street brawler, with the deceptive innocence of a boyish face. Neeson assumes Collins' passion, a man aflame in his cause yet in fatalistic tears over the aftermath. "},{"Title":"Not Neil Jordan's Best","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Collins is a good movie to see if you want to gain a little knowledge of Irish history.  However, there is unfortunately little else of note that makes this movie worth sitting for two hours.  Aside from the very talented Stephen Rea's work, the acting is terrible.  Aidan Quinn seems to forget at times that he's supposed to have an Irish accent, and even when he remembers his accent sounds terrible.  Julia Roberts gives an unspeakably awful performance.  Still, I don't fault Neil Jordan for this uncharacteristically forgettable film.  It is an important story, but difficult to translate to film, and Jordan did what he could with his resources.  In the hands of a lesser writer/director, the film could have been disastrous.  If you really have nothing else to do, it wouldn't hurt to watch this movie, but don't expect a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A total mess","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It`s near impossible to be objective about political violence in Ireland but why when given the opportunity to make the definitive film about 20th century Ireland the film makers decide to shoot themselves in the foot ?What I hate about this film is it`s pathetic attempt to be two sided . No one is shown to be an out and out villian even though extreme violence was frequently used by both sides. This maybe seen by some as being objective and two sided but strikes me as a cop out , and a cowardly one at that. I`d have  no problem with the Brits being shown as the bad guys , they did commit atrocities in Ireland at this time , of that there`s no dispute , but couldn`t have the first half of the film concentrated on this more ? Likewise there was just as many violent atrocities commited by Irishmen on Irishmen following the creation of the Irish free state. Couldn`t the second half have been far more brutal in showing De Valera to be a political opportunist only interested in power and using the lives of Irish patriots in order to get it ?Most unforgivable of all is the dilemma faced by the real life Collins of creating an independant Ireland without causing a war with the unionists in the North. Oh yes the majority of people in Northen Ireland want to remain British and a sizable minority would violently oppose a breakaway. Never once does this limp biopic point out that partition is the only optition Collins had to avert an Irish bloodbath. We see Collins going to meet the British government , then it cuts to the next scene a few months later where Collins returns to Dublin with a deal that has split Ireland in two. There is no exposition or explanation as to why Collins HAD TO negotiate partition. Instead Neil Jordan and Co decide it`s a better idea making a film that concentrates on a love triangle.So what does this piece of Hollywood garbage actually tell us ? Only that Michael Collins called lots of people  Gobs****  , that Alan Rickman can certainly act , that Julia Roberts and Aidan Quinn certainly can`t , and that Stephan Rae would make a good James Bond.       "}{"Title":"In spite of the controversy, an orthodox view which still fails to convince.","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"57 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a student of history in Ireland, I was both amused and annoyed by this film. On the first viewing I was confused much of it was very powerful, especially the 1916 and civil war scenes. My confusion related o the treatment of de Valera, who I have always regarded as displaying great integrity, and the portrayal of Collins's terrorism, which I will come to in a minute. The following fact displays the dubiousness of the basis of this film Director Neil Jordan displayed on the screen a quote, supposedly made by de Valera about Collins in 1966 in the fullness of time, history will record the greatness of Collins, and it will be recorded at my expense. This quote is contained only in Tim Pat Coogan's 1990 biography of Collins he heard it from Collins's nephew, who heard it from Joe McGrath (a former intelligence operative and sometime Minister) who supposedly heard de Valera say it. A third-hand quote produced verbatim after two or three decades. Someone else below has mentioned historical inaccuracies. I would say that what is more important is that history as it was is presented in a manner similar to the presentation of the quote - half-digested, misinterpreted and as orthodoxy. For example the notion presented by the film that Collins started and organised the highly successful 'flying columns' which carried out devastating ambushes of enemy troops, is erroneous. The officers of the East Limerick Brigade started it, and it spread to the renowned South Tipperary Brigade, and on from there. Then there is the issue of the terrorism practiced by Collins. Was it a characteristic of the War of Independence in Ireland, and was it necessary?Shooting of spies was certainly carried out in Ireland. It wasn't initiated by Collins, who became Minister for Finance in 1919 (NOT Minister for Intelligence, though he was Director of Intelligence in the army), in Ireland's first independent representative assembly in 750 years. Terrorism? No, it was a widely practiced act of war. The two countries were at war. But Collins, according to one intelligence expert, carried out assassinations of people whose status as spies or traitors has still not been proven.In fact, his tendency to target his politcal opponents with his gangs during the civil war calls his whole War of Independence status into question. These facts have a tendency to be brushed under the carpet by his legions of fans and consequently by this film. So too his role in the treaty talks. It is not widely known that the terms accepted by the delegates, or terms so similar the difference is hardly worth discussing, were already on the table when the negotiations began by virtue of preliminary talks by de Valera & others. In other words what was accepted was a travesty by any standards. It not only legalised partition (and was the source of 80 years of further bloodshed) but accepted that the rest of Ireland only had status as it was conferred by Britain. Some still believe that de Valera knew that more couldn't be achieved, but there is no basis for this, and having looked at his papers, I believe this is nonsense. Indeed, there are indications (see Hopkinson, 'Green Against Green') that Collins and the head of the delegation Griffith were happy enough with the terms to conspire with Lloyd George and Churchill to blackmail the other delegates into acceptance. What is clear is that both originally favoured acceptance of the original offer - Collins because it allowed the Free State to raise an army (yippee!).This is a technical discussion, but I wish to demonstrate how the blurring or ignoring of facts can create confusion in a historical film. A lot of people had a problem with the film but just couldn't put their finger on it. It just doesn't add up. I've no problem generally with artistic licence, but where the morality of a film rests on its facts, it needs to make sense and have logic. Overall, the acting was quite good, with one or two exceptions - the obvious one being Julia Roberts. Alan Rickman is always a shade over the top for me. Characterisation, even of Collins, was shallow. Motives weren't really explored, except to the extent of Collins saying, more or less, I am noble because I want peace even though I am a bloody murderer but that is the Brits' fault not mine, the Brits saying Look how evil and/or incompetent I am, and de Valera saying I lack the courage to do what is really necessary, I am also weak and feckless and the nemesis to the charismatic hero. The film also does a grave injustice to Harry Boland, who was a far more capable and intelligent character than he was made out to be here. There's no denying that the film has power, but it's undermined by the script, which sometimes borders on the ridiculous, and seems to try to cater to the American audience (who didn't go to see it in droves). There hasn't been a film made yet about Ireland's past (that I have seen) which I would recommend, so I don't want to be too hash. But if you want to be informed about the time, read Macardle's 'The Irish Republic'.  "},{"Title":"History of the troubles it ain't","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As an English Catholic, I was in two minds over this film.  As an Englishman I am of course used to be being portrayed as the Bad guys in Hollywood movies.  This film was no exception, the well-publicised dramatisation of the Football match massacre and the pickups of IRA suspects continue the theme started in Crying Game and Name of the Father.  But!  Neil Jordan does a pretty good job of showing the atrocities of the IRA with special attention to Bloody Sunday when the detectives are wiped out (who were after all, civilians).  One thing I did notice was the fact that Jordan mainly skipped the Civil War, which was by far a bloodier affair, but it is only really referenced in the film. As a Catholic though I felt a certain kinship with the protagonists that I didn't expect (like supporting Ireland during the '94 World Cup) and though the IRA end up as the bad guys (I think anything else would unforgivable) I couldn't help but sympathise with them. This film is a good story about Michael Collins, but it is NOT a history of the troubles, that has yet to be made and I doubt it ever will.  It would have to be a Swiss film and span the last 1000 years.  "},{"Title":"Needs More Backstory","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I only knew the name Michael Collins before watching this film and now I know of his exploits, but I could have used some more backstory instead of 700 years of struggle. Like why Liam Neeson's Collins and Aidan Quinn's Harry Boland are such great friends and why Alan Rickman's Eamon de Valera fear the both of them working together on the Irish Republican cause. So, my Irish history is rusty and this movie helps fill in some gaps, but I think more of the history of these folks struggle should have been shown.Julia Roberts' Kitty Kiernan is character who needed further development or she should have hit the cutting room floor. Why is she involved in the cause? Who does she love Michael or Harry? Is she a country lass or a city woman? Why is she in the film again? To me, it seemed like the actors were not as immersed in their roles as they should have been. "},{"Title":"Well intentioned, but no cigar.","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The struggle for independence in Ireland is a difficult thing to portray on screen, given the tendency of popular art to fall into romantic depictions of any revolutionary conflict. In that respect, 1996's MICHAEL COLLINS is as guilty as any previous effort I'm aware of. This work, which begins with the Easter Rising of 1916, attempts to retell the story of the emergence of the Irish Free State after 700 years of British occupation, and the internecine conflict which arose between the factions which supported Michael Collins and those of the Irish Republican Army, headed by Eamon de Valera. The goal of the film makers is very ambitious and falls short. To credit this group of actors, led by Liam Neeson, Aidan Quinn, Julia Roberts and Alan Rickman, characterizations remain consistent through much of this story. For my own part, I'd like to have seen a little more on the efforts of James Conally and his struggle to build an independent working class leadership in Ireland, which could have addressed some of the more glaring contradictions that de Valera and Collins eventually found themselves shooting it out over. But no one can do everything, right? The independence struggle in Ireland is a long, hard story to tell, and in 100 plus years of world cinema, it has remained difficult for mainstream film makers to address details that could curtail some of the folklore and romance attached to revolutionary struggle. This romantic tendency drags the whole of the piece down, despite the intentions of director Neil Jordan (THE CRYING GAME). But, all in all, the errors made by Jordan are no worse then the almost cliché excesses in classic works like John Ford's THE INFORMER. The sad thing is that 60 years after Ford's effort, popular portrayals of Ireland's history remain stuck in that sort of bog. But, all things in time, I guess. "},{"Title":"Well written, good movie","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed watching this movie. I learned a lot about the history of Ireland from it. I've always been fascinated by Ireland and am also an Alan Rickman fan. I truly don't believe there's a movie that he's made that I haven't liked him in (even if it was a film I wouldn't have otherwise watched with the exception of him being in it). I think he did an excellent job with his character. I went from liking the character to being dismayed but still sympathetic with him. I must say that I was not expecting Julia Roberts in the film at all and would never have imagined her taking on a role like this but felt that she did a good job and even had a good accent. Overall a good film that shows some of Ireland's war torn history and also shows that maybe they aren't quite sure what they want since they appear to have trouble accepting that they were beginning to reach their goals even though it may not have directly been through the route they wanted. "},{"Title":"If you've never understood why wars break out...","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have never understood politics or the failure of statesmen to prevent war. This film manages to effectively convey the short life of Collins' work and the early start of the Republic of Ireland. The dialogue is good, the supporting cast large, the locations correct as are the set design and costumes. Violent, active, dramatic and romantic with light comedy. The physical and emotional interactions between the actors makes the storyline believable and the characters (on both sides) sympathetic. Several niggling problems 1) Julia Roberts is over-utilized which merely focuses the attention on her inability to sustain the Irish accent. 2) The amazing supporting cast are not given enough screen time. Considering how much the efforts of freedom relied on allegiances, this is a lacking detail. 3) There is enough material in showing the battle for liberty and the interplay amongst the fighters (Dev & Mick & Broy, etc.) that including a romance is jarring to the flow of the film. There are a LOT of romantic scenes which are unessential and repetitive. 4) A lack of period, Irish music. "},{"Title":"Stupid Love Interest","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Actually, Kitty Kiernan was engaged to Michael Collins, but had earlier been involved with Harry Boland, so her participation in the film is correct. I'm in the middle of reading a biography of Collins by James Mackey, and Kitty was a much more interesting character in real life than she was portrayed in the film. She and her siblings ran a hotel, as well as a general store and a bakery (their parents were dead) so she was a pretty smart person. She actually named one of her sons after her lover. Michael Collins was initially interested in her sister Helen, but she became engaged to someone else. Like many who saw the film, I thought that Julia Roberts' accent was AWFUL. I'm not Irish but cringe when I hear an American trying to do an Irish accent. Wasn't there any talented Irish actresses out there who could have been cast? "},{"Title":"Vague to the outsider","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" About ten years ago, a friend of mine (whose father was an Irish immigrant) talked about how excellent this movie was. I tried to watch it but turned it off about halfway through because it was as understandable as Gaelic would be to a German/Czech who's only fluent in Californian English.Years later, while I was discovering Ireland in the same way one discovers music that's been around for centuries, and I was spending most of my spare time at an Irish Pub that had a staff from Ireland (with whom I'm still great friends), spending other spare time in a Northern Irish chat-room, reading bits and pieces of Irish history, hearing the Songs of Old over the pub's speakers, et cetera, and so on, and so forth, ... I gave this movie another shot.It was a LITTLE bit more understandable and I noticed a few minute historic details due to my submersion, but I still didn't get the second half. My friends explained a bit to me, but it helped only a wee bit. Ditto with the continued time spent in the Northern Irish chat-room.Finally, I spent a week in both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. After four days in the Republic, I finally went to Belfast, Northern Ireland and IMMEDIATELY I started seeing the effect made by the division of the land so long ago (when the invisible line became extremely visible, to say the least).Even though I now own this movie and, over the years, have come to understand it better than I used to, I still have to give it a low grade due it's extreme vagueness; after all, unless one has had Irish history drilled in their head from Day One, how can a thumbs up be given to a movie that cost a good $2000 to START understanding it? Oh and by the way, I still love the Irelands.AAAaannnnd, CUT! That's a wrap. "},{"Title":"Movies Are Not History Classes!","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS AHEADMichael Collins is a powerful and emotional cinematic experience that creates memorable scenes of dramatic power and human nature. And that's what I look for in movies drama, the stuff of life after all the boring bits of life are taken out; drama is the essence of life, and this movie has it in spades. Neil Jordan has crafted an enjoyable story about a man's struggle for his dream, the overwhelming odds he faced and ultimately his failure. This is not an unlifting story like Midnight Express or The Shawshank Redemption these movies are great to watch because it's also about ordinary fighting extraordinary circumstances... and triumphing. In the end, good fiction is just about that conflict, and there's only two possible conclusions a happy or unhappy ending. Michael Collins has the latter.I didn't watch this movie expecting education - there's non-fiction books for that - but just a good story about human nature. Liam Neeson was very good in the leading role of Collins, the man who reorganises the IRA into its modern shape an invisible army of plain-clothes soldiers who fight with unorthodox methods; he was a pioneer in guerrilla warfare, for better or for worse, and that was all born out of his desire to see his country free.The movie also counts with excellent suppoorting roles by Aidan Quinn, Alan Rickman, Brendan Gleeson and my favourite Stephen Rea. My only complaint is Julia Robert her character was, to me, very futile. I'd have expected Jordan to focus on Collins the fighter, but it seems he saw the need to include a boring, out of place romantic subplot. I wonder if to flesh out Collins' personality? Jordan should know characterisation is not akin to love, but to emotions and actions the foormer two do not need love to be expressed. There were two instances where I enjoyed Julia, though when she and Michael discuss in a room while at the same time the IRA is systematically killing British detectives; when she's picking up her wedding dress and we see simultaneously Collins being assassinated. But this was more due to good editing than anything else.Otherwise, Michael Collins is a fine movie with great cinematography and a beautiful score. Elliot Goldenthal is a great composer and I admire his work very much.8/10 "},{"Title":"Unspectacular","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Better when viewed a few years later, now the controversy about the accuracy or otherwise of the film has died down, this is one of Neeson's better performances, regardless of what your views are about its portrayal of the facts.Rickman is surprising mediocre as Eamon DeValera, and there are some other reasonable performances from the usual suspects. "}{"Title":"Caution","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Be careful - all historical texts are subject to interpretation by their authors. This is Neil Jordan's version of the troubles  - and a very simplified, black-and-white one it is. He makes Michael Collins out as perfect, whilst portraying de Valera as a hypocritical coward. Whilst I don't want to denigrate Collins' heroism and contribution to the fight, I think this is far too constrained a representation of what was a very complex situation. Jordan presumes to know things about de Valera he cannot possibly know - for example, his motivations for sending Collins to the negotiations. (Luckily, Alan Rickman gives the character a depth which resonates beyond the negative slant given it by the script and direction). To a lot of people, de Valera is one of Ireland's greatest heroes - certainly, his actions in the Easter Rising seem to denote courage. Don't go away from the film thinking you know the truth of the situation. This is a version of what happened, not what actually happened. Hi-STORY as opposed to history.Having said that, I enjoyed the film as a film - Neeson and, as I said, Rickman are brilliant, as is the rest of the cast (EXCEPT Julia Roberts, who was awful). The beginning is great, but the film loses pace after the treaty is signed. "},{"Title":"Essential for understanding Ireland !!","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm AMAZED that the headline yawner is the link for user comments; thankfully, most comments disagree. I regard the film as essential viewing for anyone unfamiliar with Ireland. I know quite a bit about the Anglo-Irish War, and I can tell you that Jordan must have read every book on the subject _ he has lines that relate to the most obscure sources, for those who can spot them. Simply as a film _ the acting, drama, characters, etc. _ it's a fine piece of work, even if the viewer had no interest in Ireland or history. I have one criticism _ the film is VERY unfair to (the real) De Valera. This is not the fault of Alan Rickman, who plays him very well _ and indeed, I believe that Rickman became very defensive of Dev during the film-making.  "},{"Title":"One of the Finest Examples of Filmed History","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Neil Jordan always manages to make films that are edgy, pungent, and intensely accurate in defining the motivation of his characters ('The Crying Game', 'The Butcher Boy', 'The End of the Affair', etc) and in MICHAEL COLLINS Jordan has not only directed but also wrote a docudrama that stands with the finest. It is simply a major achievement in cinematic art.The brief life of Michael Collins (he was killed when he was but 31 years of age) completely changed the history of Ireland and the British rule of that country. Collins introduced the democracy of the Irish Republic and ended a long era of fighting and rebellion. A man of passionate convictions and mesmerizing idealism and compassion, Collins' memory is still regarded by both the Irish and the British as a 20th century hero.The brilliant script is placed in the exceptionally competent hands of Liam Neeson as Collins with top flight support from Stephan Rea, Aidan Quinn, Alan Rickman, Jonathan Rhys-Meyers, Charles Dance, and yes, even Julia Roberts! The fighting scenes are so well done they become artistic, due primarily to the constantly excellent cinematography by Chris Menges. Elliot Goldenthal's musical score (with some added moments by Sinéad O'Connor) not only enhances the film but stands alone as a fine orchestral work. Truly on of the best historic films ever released. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Tragic result of brutal fight against authoritarianism","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This past St. Patrick's day I decided to rent Michael Collins.  In the news we were hearing about Ahern, Trimble, and Adams coming to the US in order to be encouraged by the President to continue peace talks.  The results were not encouraging.  So when we saw this movie and the horrific brutality of it, and how once it started, it developed its own momentum, continuing on and on without reason for over 700 -- now going on 800 -- years, I could not help but compare Ireland's story of fighting against British authoritarianism to that of India - remembering what I've read about that era, and as it was portrayed in Attenborough's film, Gandhi.At a time when the fight is still going on in Ireland, India - even with all its problems - enjoys over 50 years of independence.Could it be that Gandhi, although aware, was not as affected by the western spiritual philosophies (Judaism, Christianity, and Islam) which propose more of an eye for an eye methodology.  His style of confrontation was not passive resistance, as it has often been misnomered, but an aggressive campaign to fight the British.  However, he did not trade brutality for ever-escalating brutality as was so sadly dramatized in Michael Collins. Rather he confronted the British savageness, not with more savageness, but with humanism.  What better way to overcome brutality than to remind your opponent that both of you are human beings.  That although you are willing to die for your cause, you are not willing to kill.In the Gandhi film, most striking was a conversation with the photographer, Margaret Bourke-White.  During this she claims that certainly Gandhi's methods could not be utilized against someone like Hitler.  He concedes that, yes, it would be very difficult, and that many would die. But hadn't there already been many deaths in the war?Compare this to the hate Michael Collins in the movie has for the British forces because they cause him to become an expert in bloody mayhem.   By participating in the atrocities of war we become demons ourselves and engender such fear in our opposition that they feel justified to respond with even more atrocity.  And that way it can never, never stop. "},{"Title":"Interesting but tedious bio-pic about a ambiguous hero","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I guess I learned something about Irish history in this bio-pic, but it was not a moving film, although somewhat interesting.  I have the feeling that they threw in a love interest just for the hell of it, to draw in a few woman viewers.  It's mostly plotting followed by shooting, and it really gets you on the Irish side of things.  You start thinking that the shootings are justified.  Then Collins gets sent to England to negotiate, and all of a sudden he's a pacifist.  You don't see what happened in England to make him such, but he decides that bloodshed is bad, and expressing fealty to the crown is OK if it avoids bloodshed.  I guess the transition happened during the negotiations, and Neil Jordan couldn't figure out a way to make those negotiations interesting, so you just have to speculate on what happened.So the (divided) Irish Free State is born because of Collins, and eventually, we are left to assume, that becomes a republic presided over by a guy, Devalera, who went from ally to enemy after Collins went to England.  It's not at all clear how the transition to independent republic came about, or when it came about.The movie is a little over 2 hours, but it needed more to be good portrayal of history. I'm sure much was left in the cutting room in order to make it a watchable length, but the picture as is makes little sense.  And it makes Collins look like a traitor, even though he is thought of as a hero, and I think that the filmmakers wanted us to see him as a hero.  But he looked like an arrogant fool at the end, and I felt no pain when Johathan Rhys-Meyers shot him to death.    "},{"Title":"very interesting film","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film.  I didn't enjoy Julia Roberts in it and thought that was about the worst attempt at an Irish accent I had ever heard.  Being British and a Protestant, I didn't know how I would feel about the film, but I found it very enlightening.  It has really changed my views on the British position on Ireland.  The bloodshed and death seems so wasteful.  Michael Collins seems like a very brave man and I think the worst decision De Valera made was not going himself and negotiating for the independence of Ireland.  That was a very cowardly decision to send Collins.  He was not a negotiator and De Valera would have done better, and that seemed like a very cowardly move.  Anyway, the film really opened my eyes and gave me some perspective.  I lived in Northern Ireland for five years and I am a Protestant, but to see what my people did in Ireland is really shameful.  Nevertheless, a very enjoyable film.   "},{"Title":"Review of a well screen written and re-enactment of a true story","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The true story of Michael Collins played by Academy Award Winner Liam Neeson was a wonderful recreation of an epic tale of a country longing for its freedom. and willing to go to great lengths to get it. Only one person stood in the way of their dream,and though he didn't know it at the time, the President of the IRB Eamon de Valera played by internationally acclaimed writer, actor, producer, and director Alan Rickman would soon come to weep for what he thought was right, and yet oh so wrong. A decision that would affect him the rest of his life. This movie was found to be exquisite in its insights, reenactments, as well as the roles that were played both by Lead Actor(s)/Actress(es), and the Supporting Actor(s)/Actress(es). The heart felt tears and fears and blood is felt even in the audience through all the pain and sufferings. This movie is up there as one of the best along side such movies as Shindler's list, and Chronicles of Narnia. It should also be noted that the movies that make a great impact on the feelings and emotions of the audience are those that take it to the heart from within the movie itself. That is why this movie by definition should receive nothing less than 10/10 stars, an Outstanding movie if ever I were to right of such. "},{"Title":"Woefully Mis-cast","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dear God, who decided that Neeson would play Collins? For those (seemingly select few) of us who have seen 'The Treaty' (qv), we strutted and fretted while Uncle Liam locked horns with, of all people, Rickman.I have to say this, and it genuinely hurts to do so in the reflection of anyone prepared to depict the struggle for Irish independence Neeson should have played Devalera, Rickman should have played Griffith, and Gleeson should have played Collins. I say it hurts, because I feel deeply uncomfortable dismissing Jordan's attempts to educate the rest of the world about the War of Independence. All the above aside, it was a good story; pity the characters were so badly mis-cast. "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It was such a shame that a movie as strong as this slipped underneath the eyes of so many people. In Ireland, it received a fairly large media response and coverage, for obvious reasons, but on a worldwide scale, it just didn't hit the right notes. A movie such as Braveheart will be successful in most countries, it's a sword wielding epic, but Michael Collins carried less flare and interest in its theatrical trailer.The film is shot fantastically, from the pounding claustrophobic opening at the G.P.O, and such memorable moments as the executions and Harry's escape through the catacombs.A lot of the film's exterior shots center around the G.P.O which the film-crew built, and it is logical that they should make use of such an expensive set, but maybe perhaps too much reliance was placed on this locale, when there are so many other worthwhile landmarks in Dublin. Some of which were captured beautifully, but it was never long until the camera was back in front of the G.P.O. However, the 1920's feel of Dublin is alive and breathing in 'Michael Collins' down to the old style shops and tram lines which up until recent were inexistent for the past 50 years.Liam Neeson is perfect as Michael Collins, he becomes the character in such a way that we do not doubt him for a moment, and he is possessed by Michael Collins in a way that no other of Liam Neeson's fantastic performances ( Qui Gon Jin, Schindler, Rahz Al Ghul,) come to mind when he appears on screen. Aidan Quinn is brilliant as Michael's close friend, Harry and it is a shame that he never ventured into bigger and better things. Julia Roberts is average in this movie, not memorable at all. Her role is not strong in this film, but I can't help feeling that there was more she could have done with this character. Alan Rickman is a brilliant actor as always and its another one of those performances that stand alone and apart from any other character he has ever accomplished.Elliot Goldenthal (Alien 3, Batman Forever) created a fantastic score for this movie, which again will sadly go unheard by many. It was nominated for an Oscar but failed to win. The main theme running through the film is a memorable tune that easily shifts in mood depending on the scene. The final piece of music which plays over the funeral scene is a powerful and moving piece, which although wasn't written with intention for this film, nevertheless works surprisingly well.All in all, Michael Collins is a fantastic movie. It may have some historical inaccuracies, but the script sparkles and the brilliant performances carry you all the way through those two hours. "},{"Title":"Collins was not a murder and traitor...movie does a good job","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For those reviewers who claim Collins was nothing more then a terrorist are off by quite a bit. He was a true patriot who saw the limit of freedom the UK was willing to allow Ireland and took what Ireland could get. The fact is that Collins was proved right about the treaty being a stepping stone by, De Valera's time as Taoiseach in which Ireland began to take steps to slowly move towards a Republic. Another problem I had with some reviewers ramblings was that they claim Collins sold out the republic, Dev had no intentions of proclaiming a republic, most people knew Great Brittan would never go for it. One can read De Valera's counter proposal for a treaty and he still agreed with the fact that Ireland would be associated with the Commonwealth, with the English Monarch at its head. On top of all that his counter treaty also recognizes partition. In 1921 when the treaty was singed partition was already a fact. NI had been founded with the government of Ireland act in 1920 and James Craig had already set up a Protestant police state in the 6 counties. Collins did not sell anything out he was actually probably the Northern Catholics best ally. As history shows Dev never supported the IRA in the North during his time as Taoiseach, he actually let several die on hunger strike in Irish jails. Collins actually did plan to continue to support a struggle in NI and eventually end partition. This movie is an excellent introduction to this troubled part of Irish history. There is still much controversy in Irish history today about Collins and who was right. The movie is defiantly partial to Collins and it doesn't do Harry Boland justice as he was a very talented man. Dev is also portrayed as a jealous coward. He was a great statesmen but some of what is in the movie is known to have occurred. Also there is much documentation of Cathel Brughas hatred and jealously of Collins. The truth is that both Brugha and DeValera lacked the drive to do what Michael Collins accomplished. "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Great, Liam Neeson, The Biopic Master, is Superb really captures the Carachter of Mick Collins! Alan Rickman as Dev is an absolute treat to watch! Stephen Rea as Ned Broy is Outstanding! Aidan Quinn has attempted Irish accents before, badly, but he really makes Harry Boland his own! Julia Roberts Accent is Terrible! Neil Jordan a man of no political persuasion paints a accurate picture (for half the country at least), I believe Eammon DeValera was correctly portrayed, Much to the Disgust of Fianna Fail Members! Bloody Sunday 1920 is over exaggerated. A representation of Struggle and Oppression, but also the Viciousness and Brutality of Collins and his men, Unbiased with a hint of Hyperbole! "},{"Title":"Micheal Collins the dude","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I adore this movie. I adore Liam Neeson he was flawless in this movie and it made the ending even more traumatising. I'm Irish I knew the Collins story inside as my parents are big fans and we all love him. The end sequence was heart breaking playing one of my favourite songs 'Our Wedding Day will Kitty Kearnan getting ready for her wedding juxtaposed with Collins death I've been in tears every time I watch it.What really annoys me is the controversy surrounding this movie saying it depicts the English in a negative way and that it paints the IRA as good people whether it does or doesn't is irrelevant this is about an amazing film just depicting a time in history. But the controversy surrounding made sure the film didn't get any Oscars which it downright should have for Liam Neesons acting alone. Please also ignore some of the historical inaccuracies they are some of the sweetest bits in the movie and just enjoy the film. It rocks "},{"Title":"An excellent film, a must see. 10/10","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I truly loved this film, despite some historical inaccuracies and romanticisms of certain events. Liam Neeson was particularly good, however, Alan Rickman was truly the best with his role of Eamon de Valera.The film, which covers the life of Michael Collins starting in 1916, does an excellent job of explaining what exactly is going on, the events preceding certain battles, and develops each character appropriately.My only problems with this film (there were few) were certain historical inaccuracies, but this has come to be expected with historical films.Even if you aren't in to Irish History, or even history, this is an excellent film. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"If the price is the blackening of my name, then so be it!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Historical drama based on the life and times of Irish revolutionary Michael Mic Collins, who fought hard and played hard for his country, eventually won the Irish Free State but was allegedly stabbed in back by his comrades (one of them, De Valera, played by Alan Rickman) and assassinated in his early 30s.Film loses itself towards the end after Collins falls from the favor of his comrades and works to push his Irish Free State, but still a good drama none the less. Liam Neeson is great in the title role, imbuing him with a feeling that is both larger than life and yet down to Earth at the same time. He's got good support from Aidan Quinn and Alan Rickman as well.Liam has got to get back to films like these and stay away from anymore pop vehicles like Star Wars Episode 1 The Phantom Menace.Don't miss of course the usual shots of the beautiful Irish country side and some well done terrorist bombing scenes and the opening at the famous mail office shooting.  "},{"Title":"One of the most incredible movies ever","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was inspiring. I live in the U.S., and my dad is a Roman Catholic from Southern Ireland. I knew about the Easter Rising in 1916, Eamon de Valera and Michael Collins but never in this depth.Liam Neeson was incredible in this role. His accent was gorgeous, and he brought the character passion and excitement. Aiden Quinn seemed to forget he was Irish at times, as did Julia Roberts, they both wavered in and out of the accent. Aiden Quinn, however, did a good job. I thought Julia Roberts was HORRIBLE in this role. She could not do the accent, and the whole moving between Harry and Michael disgusted me. Normally, I love her acting but she was a bad addition to the movie. Alan Rickman was also wonderful. the contrast in opinion between him and Michael was very well done.All in all, I learned a lot about Irish history that i did not know before. However, they could have elaborated more on the Civil War. "},{"Title":"Like an Irishman in New York.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is for the most part a fine film although towards the end it fails to hide a leaning against the British, but at least it is subtly done unlike many films of this ilk. The casting of Julia Roberts seems okay except I think most viewers would find it hard to forget who she is. I think a plainer, stronger, unknown actress would have given the role more credibility and perhaps more humanity. (This is not to denigrate Miss Roberts, but rather Neil Jordan's casting choices.) At times there is a foreign feel to the film as if I was watching the film through the eyes of an American rather than being involved from an Irish perspective. Perhaps it is a sense of detachment from the  bitterness that continues to evolve and reverberate throughout that tiny island. Having said that I enjoyed the film and would hope others would watch it, if for no other reason than to enjoy the performance of Neeson and the supporting cast. "},{"Title":"Very hard to follow.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie was good but the story is very hard to follow. When I read about Micheal Collins in my history book in school it was easy to follow. This film makes all of that hard to follow. Another thing is why is there so many non-Irish in this film? Julia Roberts is from America (I guess they put her in so it would a worldwide release), than Alan Rickman who is from the UK. I also heard Tom Cruise and Kevin Costner were considered for this film. Even Micheal Collins is played by a guy from Northen Ireland. I have to respect this film because it's my country's history. But after 5 minutes I lose the plot. And another thing is PG? What the heck? Even though the IFCO rated it PG because of the historical matter this movie has strong language and violent scenes. Not one for the kiddies. "},{"Title":"An excellent portrayal of Irish History","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An excellent portrayal of Irish history, Neil Jordan assigns a stellar cast, not only based on their incredible talent, but on their physical resemblance to the real life figures as well. Having read up on the real life of Michael Collins, I was impressed with the director's use of cinematography to mimic actual photos taken of the man. Liam Neesan's passion is evident in his performance, and Alan Rickman should be noted for his incredible and moving performance as Ireland's revolutionary and first president, Eamon deValera. Not as impressive was Julia Robert's performance of Kitty. Her accent slipped very noticeably during the length of film and the performance felt rather stiff. In all, it was a very moving, and well-crafted film that fell under the unfortunate shadow of another Celtic blockbuster, Braveheart, released the same year.If anyone needs to understand the underlying conflict between Ireland and England, this film is a startling and painful resource. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great film","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It has it's moments and is beautifully photographed (by Chris Menges), but it still has script problems as well as false history. Ned Broy was not killed during the upheaval after the Irish Republican Brotherhood's formation; he lived long after. Many historical facts were sacrificed for the film. While they did make sense, they didn't make this movie a classic. Still, the character of Michael Collins is inspirational, especially if you have an interest in Irish history or are Irish yourself. The performances are first rate all around, except for Julia Roberts who I thought was expendable. In real-life history her character wasn't very important and is no more important for the film. Still, writer/director Neil Jordan makes a movie that is difficult to stop watching. I give it 7/10 "},{"Title":"Well scripted and sharply directed.","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw this film I was not sure what to expect. Was it going to be a biased portrayal? Although some incidents were merged, I'm glad to say that I thought the film was excellent, with a powerful script, well directed and a superb performance by Alan Rickman as De Valera and Liam Neeson in the title role. The direction of the film was very well done, especially the scenes at the Four Courts in Dublin.A well recommended film, which I found to be very fair in the portrayal of incidents committed in the period of British rule and the subsequent civil war. "}{"Title":"An Epic Mess","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's near impossible to be objective about political violence in Ireland but why when given the opportunity to make the definitive film about 20th century Ireland the film makers decide to shoot themselves in the foot ? Oh let me guess - this is financed by Americans for an American market What I hate about this film is it's pathetic attempt to be two sided . No one is shown to be an out and out villain even though extreme violence was frequently used by both sides. This maybe seen by some as being objective and two sided but strikes me as a cop out , and a cowardly one at that. I'd have no problem with the Brits being shown as the bad guys , they did commit atrocities in Ireland at this time , of that there's no dispute , but couldn't have the first half of the film concentrated on this more ? Likewise there was just as many violent atrocities committed by Irishmen on Irishmen following the creation of the Irish free state. Couldn't the second half have been far more brutal in showing De Valera to be a political opportunist only interested in power and using the lives of Irish patriots in order to get it ? Most unforgivable of all is the dilemma faced by the real life Collins of creating an independent Ireland without causing a war with the unionists in the North. Oh yes the majority of people in Northen Ireland want to remain British and a sizable minority would violently oppose a breakaway. Never once does this limp biopic point out that partition is the only optition Collins had to avert an Irish bloodbath. We see Collins going to meet the British government , then it cuts to the next scene a few months later where Collins returns to Dublin with a deal that has split Ireland in two. There is no exposition or explanation as to why Collins HAD TO negotiate partition. Instead Neil Jordan and Co decide it's a better idea making a film that concentrates on a love triangle.So what does this piece of Hollywood garbage actually tell us ? Only that Michael Collins called lots of people  Gobs****  , that Alan Rickman can certainly act , that Julia Roberts and Aidan Quinn certainly can't , and that Stephan Rae would make a good James Bond "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An awful movie glorifying an evil terrorist. The IRA is exactly the same as al Queda and the Taliban, and Michael Collins was just an evil terrorist who murdered his own people using weapons and ammunition from the British. Ireland was never part of the British Empire, it was part of the UK and played a very active role in building the Empire. Westminster had passed the Home Rule Bill in 1914. Southern Ireland should have just waited for it to come into effect at the end of World War I, then declare itself a republic.In any case the film is ruined by the casting. Liam Neeson was clearly far too old to play Collins, who was only 31 when he died. Julia Roberts did the worst Irish accent I have ever heard and her character was completely irrelevant. Alan Rickman gave a thoroughly cartoonish portrayal of Eamon de Valera.I am so glad Collins was actually killed by one of his own terrorists. It is fitting that he got the violent death he deserved - just like his fellow mass murderers Osama bin Laden, Saddam Hussein and Muammar Gaddafi.Anybody from the United States who admired the IRA should remember that so-called white Americans were only British colonists planted in North America at the same time as the Scots in Ulster.0/10. "},{"Title":"Underrated film of the greatest hero who ever lived!","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Starring Ian Hart as Joe O Reilly Julia Roberts as Kitty Kiernan Richard Ingram as The British Officer Liam Neeson as Michael Collins Aidin Quinn as Harry Boland Joe O Leary as Thomas Clarke and Alan Rickman as Eamon De Valera After the defeat of Irish rebels by superior British forces during Easter week of rebellion of 1916 and Michael Collin develops new strategies for the Independence of Ireland,but becomes vilified by the people that are hoping to create a completely different Independent Irish republic,Michael Collins is a very epic except very underrated film about one of the greatest hero's that ever lived,it was nominated for 2 Oscars but didn't win either of them. "},{"Title":"Missed the mark historically, but still a very good & necessary film","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (BIG-TIME SPOILER ALERT - READ THIS AFTER YOU WATCH THE FILM!!)Michael Collins as a man was an important figure in Irish history, though some consider him as slightly-misguided for one single large decision, though he did many patriotic deeds and was an incredibly brave young man regardless. He was very definitely a patriot and one of the cornerstones of Irish freedom, but he was not the top player in the quest by virtually anyone's estimation; he was more of a soldier general than a political leader, like Washington rather than Jefferson, Franklin and Hamilton in American Revolutionary history. This movie could have been made with a number of other characters in the lead position who were more important and possibly more dramatic during that era. Patrick Pearse (a lawyer & patriot who had many quotes that could have been used) or James Connolly, who were both executed for the 1916 Easter Uprising, or even Eamonn De Valera, who although demonized in the movie had much more historic weight to draw upon --- all of these figures would have been my choices above Collins. I don't mean to disparage Collins' motives and means as I believe he was a fearless patriot to the end who got caught up in governmental and political machinations that he never should have been involved with; rather, he should have been an army leader, plain and simple.After seeing this, you quickly realize that the IRA has always been a bloody outfit of terrorists, but they have always had a passionate patriot quest that has fueled that bloodshed and their killing had a truly patriotic mission in its early stages --- their initial missions didn't include the bombing and killing of innocent victims, though they have always had trouble with choosing violence over political discourse. This movie gives the Old IRA as they are called by historians a patriotic and noble light, which is fair indeed. They would certainly not attain that position in any objective film about their latter-day exploits save the Hunger Strikes of 1981.There are inaccuracies in the movie as you will find in virtually any historically-based movie, but there is much more you will get out of watching it than just dismissing it as a Hollywood story. If you don't know much about Irish history, you will want to learn more after seeing it as I did my first time, and being of Irish-American lineage, I'm quite ashamed that I didn't know as much as I should have; in fact, I knew very little at all. This movie got me started, and after reading many interesting volumes of text from scholarly sources, archives & opinionated texts, I have formed some conclusions of my own. I believe that the real mistake was in sending Collins to negotiate with the Brits. Regardless of whether he wanted to go or not, he never should have been sent or accepted the position. Furthermore, he never should have accepted anything less than what the Irish leadership wanted him to accept, which was total freedom as a true, non-commonwealth Republic. There probably wouldn't have been a civil war and Collins would have possibly lived to be an old man otherwise and see the real Republic 28 years later. I do believe that the move to an Irish Free State was better than nothing at all, and I agree with Collins motives to gain peace and use Free Statehood as a stepping stone (even DeValera admitted as much later in his life), but there should have been discussion and debate and a general consensus among the Irish leadership with a bonafide plan to turn Ireland into a true free Republic within a certain, short period of time (like what Scotland recently experienced) before Collins & Arthur Griffith foolishly committed to it without that caveat. The only reason a majority accepted it was because it was a done deal and they didn't want any more bloodshed, and Collins and Griffith sold it to a majority of the public after-the-fact, most of whose citizenry was non-confrontational anyway. But with smart negotiating, they could have had it all in due time, the Irish Free State, then the Republic of Ireland (not to be confused with the Irish Republic which existed during the era of the movie prior to the Irish Free State) instead of having to wait until 1949 when England literally gave away its long-awaited freedom along with its other parcels of real estate, Israel & India --- Ireland never fought much again after Collins died. In retrospect, Collins was prophetic when he said that he signed his death warrant by signing the Anglo-Irish Treaty in 1921.I believe Liam Neeson did a superb job as he always does. Aidan Quinn's accent grated on me (sounded like a New York Irish accent if even that) & Julia Roberts was just plain horrible and served as eye-candy only in my opinion and apparently most others. Alan Rickman also gave a fantastic performance as De Valera, and Stephen Rea always gives a top-notch performance. There are a few other actors I would have liked to see in this production, but all-in-all, I enjoyed the movie very much regardless of its shortcomings --- it was a very necessary movie to be made.I thought the music was excellent as well as the lush Irish countryside --- it will make you want to see it at least once in your lifetime. "},{"Title":"Underrated compared to many similar-themed movies - Recommanded viewing","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Actually way stronger than Ken Loach's rendering of the Irish Civil War - http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0460989/Solid acting (might be candid at times but, hey, this is a genre movie), great rhythm throughout a 2-hour film, true-to-life dialogs (you do feel Neil Jordan was born in Sligo), impressive sets (how did they manage the Four Courts bombing?)All in all, a great movie well-made, entertaining, that never stretches too far and leaves you thinking, as Michael Collins when in Dublin Castle during the transition ceremony 'What's in a flag...'As I tend to like Neil Jordan's movies, and to have an interest in Irish history, I was a bit scared of being disappointed. Well, that did not happen. "},{"Title":"When I watch a movie, I want to be entertained in the first place, not just informed.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Because I am a great fan of several Neil Jordan movies - I've seen four of them so far and loved them all - and because I've always appreciated Liam Neeson's style of acting, it's only natural that I wanted to see this movie. Whether this movie is historically spoken completely accurate or not, didn't really make much of a difference. If I want to know more about a certain fact in history, than I buy books that have been written by people that know all about it. When I watch a movie, I want to be entertained first, which certainly doesn't mean that I don't care about historical accuracy at all of course. For me it's just not the most important part in this kind of dramas.From 1916 on Michael Collins stands on the barricades to fight the British army that occupies Ireland. He is one of the men that want to establish a new government, while throwing out the British and creating a completely independent Irish republic. But when he sees that their dreams will never come true, he starts negotiating with the British government and is able to establish the Irish Free State, which means that they are more or less independent, but still have to answer to the British crown and will lose Northern Ireland. That's why some of his former allies turn against him, blaming him for the loss of something that could never have been won...Whether this movie is completely accurate or not, I can not judge about. I believe all those people who say that it isn't. They probably know a lot more about it than I do. But that's not very important to me this time. As I said earlier in my review, when watching a movie, I don't just want to be informed, I want to be entertained. And entertainment is exactly what I got. The story on itself is well-written and well-paced. I can't think of one moment that I was bored, but I certainly know that I was very interested while watching. That's also thanks to the very fine performances by all the actors. Liam Neeson was as great as always, but Aidan Quinn, Stephen Rea, Alan Rickman,... certainly weren't any less good. I even appreciated Julia Roberts, although in my opinion she was the least of all the big names in this movie. She didn't seem to fit in completely, but her performance was good enough, so it didn't spoil the entire movie for me.If you can see past the fact that Neil Jordan probably changed some parts of the truth in order to get a better movie and if you rather like to watch this movie for the very fine acting, the nice images,... than to get a history lesson, than you'll agree with me that this movie still deserves a rating in between 7.5/10 and 8/10. If you can't, than I wouldn't even give it a try. "},{"Title":"If the price is the blackening of my name, then so be it!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Historical drama based on the life and times of Irish revolutionary Michael Mic Collins, who fought hard and played hard for his country, eventually won the Irish Free State but was allegedly stabbed in back by his comrades (one of them, De Valera, played by Alan Rickman) and assassinated in his early 30s.Film loses itself towards the end after Collins falls from the favor of his comrades and works to push his Irish Free State, but still a good drama none the less. Liam Neeson is great in the title role, imbuing him with a feeling that is both larger than life and yet down to Earth at the same time. He's got good support from Aidan Quinn and Alan Rickman as well.Liam has got to get back to films like these and stay away from anymore pop vehicles like Star Wars Episode 1 The Phantom Menace.Don't miss of course the usual shots of the beautiful Irish country side and some well done terrorist bombing scenes and the opening at the famous mail office shooting.  "},{"Title":"The best film I've seen in a long time!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie truly surprised me, the entire thing was done excellently. They could not have found a better person to portray Collins than Liam Neeson (not only is he handsome, but he's a marvelous actor.)  The movie itself was very accurate in most places.  Although it is lengthy, the incredible acting and intriguing plotline make it easy to follow.  Even the music is fantastic, Goldenthal did a very good job in his composing. "},{"Title":"Ireland's Braveheart","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing this film before I had even entered my teens. Yet, despite my age I couldn't help but be utterly moved. Despite it's graphic content I consider it one from childhood. This may seem strange but consider that I saw it at a time when we were just learning about Irish History in school which, with school being school, we found vaguely interesting. Yet after watching this, that changed. True Neil Jordan did take creative license with regards to what actually took place but still, it was so good. This film displayed the emotion and brutality of our nations past ten times better than any textbook could, it gave us an understanding and a reason to care and be passionate about what went on less than a century ago. This is why I summurised this as Ireland's 'Braveheart'But on top of this when I was at an age where, with regards to the movies I watched, absolutly nothing compared to this. No other movie had taken me through such a rollercoaster of emotions. From the despair as The Rising was quashed and the leaders shot, to the passion of the fight against the British (I can still hear the cheers every time a brit was shot as we watched this in the classroom, yes at aged 12 we watched this in school, that's how important even our teachers thought it was), to the joy as they surrendered and then finally the grief at the death of Collins. No film had ever done that to me, had moved me that way. So that why I love this movie not just because of the sight of us giving the Brits a good wacking (and then them returing the favour) but because it's just a bloody good film. So is any that can get a child to think and feel that way. That is why I give this film 10/10 P.S. I know Im a bad speller. "},{"Title":"A truly great film with a wonderful depth of characters and situations.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  PLEASE NOTE THAT WHILE UNINTENTIONAL, THE FOLLOWING COMMENTS MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS.Michael Collins is a film that easily rates in my top ten for personal favorites.  My knowledge of the troubles is naught so I am unable to comment on that, my comments are on the film only.  While I understand how some may find it historically inaccurate, I found this story told with a caring that had not been exercised since Schindler's List in 1993.When I first saw this movie, I was so blown away, that I had to see it a second time to catch up on all the little details that I missed.  Every actor was superb in their respective roles and Neil Jordan's direction was some of the best ever.  Throughout the first hour, I find myself unable to breath with the opening sequence of the Easter Uprising, to Michael Collins building his army.  Every action and sequence was filmed so tightly that the pace moves at a breakneck speed.While the second hour slows a bit, it is no less engrossing, and builds even more depth into the characters helping the audience to understand the characters situations and actions.The editing throughout the entire film is exceptional, and the scene or sequence that takes place at the 60 minute mark is probably one of the best I have ever seen.  In it we are shown three stories at once.  Starting with a character building piece between Collins and Julia Roberts character, to the British secret service following Stephen Rea's character, to Collins gunmen tracking down the men in charge of stopping them.  We go back and forth between these three stories in a such a way that by the time the sequence has finished we are left stunned and wondering what in the world could happen next.The final sequence of the film I found to be a bit of a curiosity, but with repeated viewings I see that is the way it is supposed to be, and it is no less satisfying than the rest of the film.While I wouldn't classify this film as an entertainment, I recommend it to anyone looking to watch a movie with an excellent story told with an amazing film making style.  "}{"Title":"Neeson","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm surprised to see so many praise Neesons work n this film. He wasn't that good & his Cork accent leaves a lot to be desired, Brendan Gleeson did a far better job at playing Collins in the film, The Treaty( a must see for anybody who enjoyed Michael Collins). It is also by Neesons own admission that Gleeson portrayed Collins better. I recall reading at the time Neeson said  Gleeson was the true Michael Collins or something to that effect. Also, I do not feel that the film goes overboard with its views of De Valera. The one scene that it maybe does is when it is strongly suggested that he plays an active role in the killing of Collins. It is widely believed in Ireland that De Valera did not have an active part in his killing. But other than that, there is little that could be faulted with his treatment of DeValera. It is true that he left Ireland during the bloodiest stages of the war & that he refused to negotiate the treaty himself without giving a satisfactory explanation to his people. "},{"Title":"'Our only weapon is our refusal'","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film helps people to be aware of what happened to Ireland and how the revolutionaries fought for Irish freedom, albeit there are certain elements in the movie which are not as powerful (eg. the relationship between Michael Collins, Harry Boland and Kitty Kiernan) and as a film some events and dialogue have to be fictionalised. Nevertheless, Liam Neeson and Alan Rickman were splendid as Michael Collins and Eamon de Valera respectively and Stephen Rea was as brilliant as always. Watching this as what happened (more than) eighty years ago, it is as if everything comes to life, right before your eyes. Michael Collins was the one who made significant contribution to help to found the Irish Free State, to win freedom in order to win further freedom, notwithstanding he was also a highly controversial figure who conducted numerous assassinations and was perceived as a terrorist. He was the one who brought peace to the land that had been covered with blood, and yet also the one who gave up the North and caused the subsequent Troubles for the decades to come.The film could have been even better, but it has successfully made people worldwide get to know Michael Collins, a truly remarkable human being. I recommend this movie to anyone who is interested in Irish history.       "},{"Title":"a fantastic and sensational epic","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is an extraordinary, epic and lavish production (the film sets of O'Connell Street/Easter Uprising are superb and convincing) and a brilliant portrayal of the total paradox that is Michael Collins. Collins is shown as one of the most ruthless, evil gangster-terrorists of the 20th century and is utterly relentless in his fight against the British - yet he then rounds it all off by being the great peacemaker and diplomat, negotiating a treaty in London and then arguing for peace even at the cost of a partitioned Ireland.  He then fights a vicious civil war against his former IRA comrades, aided and armed by Churchill and Britain!  How's that for being Irish?Overall, this film is totally brilliant and engrossing.It's also a fascinating look into how the British ruled Ireland, with the &#145;G Division' political officers gaining information on various people in Ireland and, of course, the notorious, war-weary Black and Tans.  The Black and Tans were infamous - and rightly so - yet I don't blame them that much.  Four years in the Western Front trenches would be enough to drive anyone mad; they were brutalised before they got to Ireland.A good cameo by Charles Dance too, as one of the Cairo Gang (all killed on the Bloody Sunday massacre).  Liam Neeson is brilliant as Collins, of course.  Alan Rickman is sensational as the enigmatic de Valera.The film also has an excellent musical score by Elliot Goldenthal &#150; particularly the delightful Macushla and the funeral/coda at the end.  "},{"Title":"The Tragedy Of Ireland","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A collection of fairly big names (including Liam Neeson, Alan Rickman and Julia Roberts) joined together to offer this tribute to Michael Collins, one of the leaders of the movement for Irish independence and the chief negotiator of the controversial treaty that led to the establishment of the Irish Free State in 1922, and who was ultimately assassinated during the resulting Irish Civil War. Neeson was superb in the role of Collins, convincingly showing his evolution from a radical who promoted violence and murder as a way of achieving the republic to his recognition that achieving his goals would have to be a part of an evolutionary process that would include the Irish Free State - an independent Ireland, but within the British Empire, and under the sovereignty of the English King. The treaty brought him into conflict with fellow republican leader Eamon de Valera (Rickman), who was critical of Collins' violent methods and seemed more interested in talking - both within and without Ireland - but who rejected the Free State and became a bitter opponent of Collins. This is hardly an uplifting movie, which I suppose makes it a fairly reasonable representation of the Irish history of the period (and of subsequent decades.) The first 75 minutes or so especially was a bit of a downer. That period of the movie features good performances and some helpful reflections on the history of the republican movement, but - much like Irish history itself - it becomes repetitively violent and bloody, as British kill Irish and Irish kill Irish and there seems to be little point to it all. That gets briefly set aside with the opening of negotiations with the British and the ultimate signing of and debate over the Free State treaty. Perhaps the most poignant line of the movie (to me) was when, during an argument over whether to accept the independent Free State or hold out for a republic, Collins says words to the effect of I'm not going to kill over a matter of words - making the point that The Free State had accomplished basically what the republicans wanted - Irish independence, with a republic left to be established through the normal process of political evolution. De Valera and his followers, though, refuse to accept that and restart the Civil War.This is certainly an interesting reflection not just on Ireland but on extremism of all kinds, and the natural desire of people to have everything they want right away and the resulting inability of many to compromise. I might add that Julia Roberts (as Kitty, who became engaged to Michael) seemed largely window dressing. Kitty's presence wasn't really necessary to the more important story of the political and paramilitary activities in Ireland and seemed to be more for the purpose of humanizing Michael Collins a bit. From the perspective of later Irish history, Collins' ultimate death seems so tragic, since within a few years De Valera chose to become active in the politics of the Free State (eventually even serving as Prime Minister of the Free State) and proved what Collins had said all along - that the Free State was part of an evolutionary movement that would lead to the establishment of the republic. Perhaps any movie dealing with virtually any part of Irish history has to be tragic to be honest. "},{"Title":"moving history","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a moving history of the man Michael Collins, and it should be watched by any and all history buffs, whether interested in Irish history or not, as an example of how national heroes can be painted black even as they do what they know is best for their people. "},{"Title":"Educate Yourself","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As an Irish-American, I find that I know the basic stories behind Irish history.  But it was nice to see the passion and intensity put into a film for me to get excited about, and for other Irish-Americans to embrace their past.For some reason, many people come to this country and they bring their culture, but the Irish always seem to abandon theirs.  Please do not, educate yourself and your children.  Be proud.  My parents brought me here when I was 3.  I go back to Ireland whenever I have the chance, and I recommend Ireland to everyone and anyone, it's so beautiful. "},{"Title":"Decent cinematic experience","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the AWFUL linguistic stylings of Julia Roberts (I've never heard such a bad Irish accent before; she couldn't pick between sorta Irish and fully American), this movie wasn't too bad.  Liam Neeson and Alan Rickman were fantastic, as ever.  Ditto Aidan Quinn, Ian Hart, and Stephen Rea. I'm sure the producers took liberal license with the actual story of Michael Collins, but that didn't detract from the overall worth of the movie itself. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Very good basic portrayal of Michael Collins","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OK, let me first get something out of the way. I'm an American of Swedish and Hungarian descent, which means I'm not Irish in any way. That said, I have read extensively about the Troubles and Michael Collins is a great film. With a conflict such as the Troubles in Ireland, one cannot be completely unbiased. This film's bias is in its title. The film's hero is definitely Collins, and the other historical figures are underrepresented. I concur with everyone else who has reviewed this film in asking what compelled Neil Jordan to cast Julia Roberts as Kitty Kiernan? Roberts looks kinda sorta maybe NOT REALLY like Kitty Kiernan, and I'm not going to even start about her accent in the film. As I said in the one-liner above, this is a very good basic view of Collins' life, with all of the most important events in it. He was a 26 year old Volunteer during the April 1916 Easter Rising (although he's a bit older in the film's re-creation of the Rising). He was major player in the Irish War of Independence. He was forced by De Valera (who the film rightly shows is into political opportunism) into negotiating a Treaty with Britain, after which he said he signed his death warrant, which he had. The film shows all of this, and I commend Mr. Jordan for getting the basics right. However, there are four (that I counted) major mistakes in the film. Firstly, there were no car bombs in this conflict until Daithi O'Connell first came up with the idea in 1972, so the scene in the film with the British official being blown up in his car is false. Secondly, the Tans did not drive an armored personnel carrier into Croke Park. They scaled the walls and machine gunned people for an entire day. Thirdly, Harry Boland was killed in a hotel in Skerries, which is in County Dublin, not Dublin City itself. He was not killed in the sewers. And lastly, I have no idea where Jordan got the idea that Ned Broy was murdered by the Tans, although the scene with Broy being strangled by a rope certainly shows how brutal the Black and Tans were. Broy, in reality, survived the whole thing and went on to become the first head of the Gardai, the unarmed Irish police force, in 1922. Overall, if a person wants to be simply entertained without caring about Irish history, this is a good film. But if one wants to know more about Michael Collins, see this film, then read Michael Collins The Man Who Made Ireland by Tim Pat Coogan. Movies will get you so far, and books will fill in the holes made by Hollywood producers looking for poetic license (not getting stuff right) and money.  "},{"Title":"Mixed Emotions","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As an American with Irish ancestors and an interest in Irish history, I was very interested to see this movie. I am also a fan of Liam Neeson and Alan Rickman, so that definitely helped me in my selection on that nondescript Saturday night!Upon viewing this film, I had a vague idea of the Irish history of this time period, the Dail Eireann (I know I probably just butchered that spelling, many apologies), and was hoping to get a better understanding. I did understand it better, and I enjoyed the action with Liam Neeson, Alan Rickman, Stephen Rae, and Aidan Quinn.My only problems with the movie was that I wasn't sure how factual it was, and Julia Roberts's character. I don't know if Kitty Kiernan was a real person or not (my guess is not) but I'm an American who lives in practically the middle of nowhere and that accent of hers made me cringe (a bit like Brad Pitt's in The Devil's Own, but that's another story) at times. But it seemed like her character served no other purpose than to get Michael Collins and Harry Boland on opposite sides of the Civil War, making it personal rather than political like I would have preferred it.Overall, I would say its a good movie. If you're looking for a documentary, you are most likely not going to want to watch this. But this is a good quality film that most people would probably enjoy. One thing, this isn't a movie I would let kids watch, obviously with the 'R' rating, mostly because of the violence, I would say  "},{"Title":"The Best Movie","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Movie Michael Collins Is one of the best movies I have seen. It greatly portrays Michaels struggle what really happened in his fight to be a catholic. I have seen many comments of people who are negative and very untrue, almost saying like none of this really happened. The movie tells the story wonderfully and most true. I know all these things are true because I myself am an ancestor of Michael Collins himself, so my family knows much about him, and if you dont believe me, then im sorry. Thank you and I hope that you are positive and love this movie as much as I do. "}{"Title":"A drama that never slows down...","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this movie a year ago and I remember seeing it the first time...I was blown away. The acting is top notch with Liam Neeson, Julia Roberts and Alan Rickman in the lead. Supporting them are veteran Jordan actors Ian Hart and Stephen Rea. Neil Jordan presented a very beautiful drama considering he had one camera and an impossible shooting schedule. The ending of the movie, is in my opinion one of the best filmed sequences of all time.  "},{"Title":"An absolutely brilliant film.","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. From the very start it showed Collins' struggle for the freedom of Ireland, through to signing the treaty and finally being murdered. It probably means more to me than a lot of other people, being Irish myself.The only real problem with the film was Julia Roberts and after the first hour when it started burning out a bit.Other than that, Michael Collins was a brilliant piece of work. "},{"Title":"irish amazement","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even though i've got this film on video, i've only watched it a few times. Its not one of those films you can watch again and again.  Being from ireland and particularly the north,  this film had a lot of meaning to me, which was not shared everywhere, except in ireland, where it has become the best-grossing film so far. The beginning is amazing.  To see those soldiers and people fighting for us (in places i'd seen and visited) took my breath away.  Liam Neeson, though rather old, fitted the role perfectly and he also didn't have a problem with the accent! Towards the end, i felt the rush disappearing.  It was like the excitement wasn't balanced throughout the film.  There was a rush for the first hour or so, and then...nothing.  In saying that though, I really loved this film and it remains one of my favourites. "},{"Title":"Michael Collins","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've seen/watched Micahel Collins approximately five times or more. When I watched this film this is wanted alerted me the most,the History side of Michael Collins, the Irish hatred for the British, the Easter Rising(Dublin 1916, the Irish countryside and the British occupation of Dublin for 752 years(1170-1922)and also the British attempting to hold on to its most troublesome colony Ireland. The reason I gave this film 9 out of 10 stars because I really enjoy History, Irish History and even though the British were depicted as evil sadists I understood both sides of the story. My favorite scenes were the Easter Rising inside the Dublin Post Office, Black and Tans in Croke Park and the Civil War on the streets of Dublin. So all in all Michael Collins is a great film 9 stars!!!!!!!!!! If any Americans read this the word favorite is the Australian spelling considering I'm Australian. "},{"Title":"Uncompromising","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've sometimes wondered if Neeson could really act.  With that face and that hulking physical form he seemed made for parts that oozed strength and sympathy.  But he's shown himself to have considerable range.  Here he's all short-tempered bluster, impatient, pushing people around, shouting orders.  That is, except when he's with Julia Roberts.  Her presence involves a subplot that was shoehorned into the story.  Two old friends in love with the same woman, and so forth.  See Errol Flynn and Ronald Reagan for more and better examples.This is a pretty good movie, as far as I can tell.  I'm not familiar with the history, so it's kind of enlightening.  And it raises important questions about collective behavior.  Many revolutions seems to lead to some kind of at least temporary disaster.  To have a revolution in the name of a cause for which people are willing to die requires a great deal of loyalty and commitment.  That kind of intense loyalty seems to be an all or nothing thing.  You're either with the cause all the way, or you're part of the problem.  Relatively minor points of theory or organization become as important as the original cause.  Such a cognitive style doesn't encourage compromise.  So if the revolution succeeds you wind up with warring factions, armed and trained fighters, who turn on one another.  That's what happened in Russia and India, and that's what happened in Ireland.  It's like the concept of inertia in physics.  An armed movement just rolls right along in the same state of motion unless acted upon by external forces, which were lacking in Ireland in the 1920s.The movie doesn't compromise much either, for whatever reasons.  Collins isn't exactly a likeable kind of guy.  He's responsible for the IRA's tactic of assassination of British authority figures.  The sight of a couple of helpless guys getting their brains blown out in public isn't too appetizing.  Not that the Tans come off that well either, summarily hanging people and whatnot.  But Neeson plays Collins as a kind of passionately dumb brute, by no means a conventional hero.  He's a whirlwind of motion, not a sly politician like De Valera (Rickman).  Neeson is honest to a fault -- and it may just BE a fault.  Running a government is the kind of thing that a manipulator like De Valera would be good at, but not Collins.  After the revolution succeeds there is no place for firebrands, as Tom Paine and Trotsky found out.  Social movements may be animated by charismatic figures but the organization that results is run by bureaucrats, as was Christianity, beginning with Jesus but getting organized by St. Paul.It's a fairly balanced movie, although, to be sure, there are no good Brits in it.  At the same time there are a lot of unlikable Paddies.  It's well worth seeing for the light it casts on some complicated history, and for the performances of Neeson, Quinn, and Rickman.       "},{"Title":"A United Ireland","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The story of Michael Collins is both driven by passion and hate. The story starts off with the fall of 1000 strong Irish rebels based in the GPO in Dublin to which starts the first of many war sequences that would later give any viewer the chance to become emotionally attached to the story.Both Michael Collins & Eamonn de Valera played important roles in the movement to give Ireland it's freedom from British Rule, a passion that had driven rebels on for years before. They would inevitably share different views during the last scenes of the movie.This movie almost accurately shows the troubled times in Ireland in it's quest for a free state and it's own governing body. It also portrays disturbing scenes of violence from the British Army; which would soon to be called, the Black and Tans.For anybody who thinks that this is your average war movie, you would be highly mistaken. It has a mixed plot of love/hate/action and emotions which would lure in any viewer, both male and female.This is definitely a more new-age Braveheart film, which can lure one to become emotionally attached to the characters and plot. A definite must see for anybody whom is familiar with Irish History. "},{"Title":"What is worth going to war over?","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"      Being Irish-American and but 20, I have very little knowledge of the horrors and desperation that have characterized the country I'm told is my original home.  I have never visited Ireland- I know of the culture by way of music and film not by politics and history.  I couldn't even tell you what county my family's from, but even so, this film greatly affects me.  Even outside of an Irish context, it's essentially about what someone is willing to go to war for.  Unlike these films like Braveheart and Saving Private Ryan, which show a kind of tragic pleasure in the bloodshed of the eternal struggle, this is a portrait of a repentant warrior who hates his enemies for making hate necessary.     In America, we separate the soldiers from murderers and assassins when in fact it's basically the same act, spilling blood with bullets.  Is there any way one can really make murder legitimate as de Valera sought to?  All too often in America, we distance ourselves from the acts of murder we commit by calling them military actions, even when killing the innocent, as in Kosovo.  Then again what is really worse- bombing strangers from the skies, or shooting neighbors at close range?  For me, Michael Collins makes it so clear that the only atrocity worse than war is the personal horror of civil war- attacks against one's own countrymen.  PLOT SPOILER COMING- The civil war over the terms of the Treaty is so senseless and brutal, as pathetic as Collins' Death, and most of all, unnecessary as it is a fight over terms which were probably not clearly understood by the majority of men who died in the war over them.    Collins is asked by De Valera What would you know about peace?  What De Valera doesn't acknowledge is that Collins felt a burning need for peace precisely because he had managed and committed such atrocious acts of war.  He lived in a hell-on-earth of guerrilla war in the name of a peace that I feel he knew he would not live to see.      Neil Jordan don't mention in his screenplay or notes anything about music, and that makes me wonder what the film would have been like without music until the end credits.  Perhaps the violence would have been even more devastatingly real and challenging to the viewer.  As it is, the use of faded colors, fog, shades of grey and blue combine to create a stark, gritty, realistic atmosphere for the bloodshed in Dublin, which is strangely but yet appropriately contrasted with the peaceful lush interiors, as in the sequence where Kitty and Michael whisper in bed while the killings erupt outside.         Why did the film not succeed in America?  Perhaps it's because it is about the history of a foreign country, but that didn't stop Braveheart from winning Best Picture, did it?  I think you lost the American audience most, Mr. Jordan, because you've made an anti-war film.  And in the States, a film that speaks to how senseless, ignoble, brutal, UNQUESTIONABLY personal, and unnecessary war is will be mostly overlooked or rejected.  When a film shows how arrogant it is for politicians with clean hands to send young men to murder over words, terms, and ideologies, it will especially be rejected in this country where such things have been done all too often.  Thank you for making this picture, Mr. Jordan, and God bless you. "},{"Title":"History comes alive","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Neil Jordan is mostly known for his lyrical, romantic films, so he might be a surprising choice to make a film about Michael Collins.  What's even more surprising is how it looks.  Ireland is romanticized in its beauty, as seen in such films as THE QUIET MAN and DARBY O'GILL AND THE LITTLE PEOPLE(do I have that one right?).  But Jordan and cinemotographer Chris Menges show little of that beauty here, instead giving this a tough, gritty look, where you can feel the despair and the repression in the air.  This especially helps in the violent scenes.As a portrait of Michael Collins, it's missing a few shades, though Liam Neeson is quite good as Collins.  Admittedly, it's been a while since I studied this, but from what I remember from my Irish history classes in college, Collins was a better orator and politician than the movie gives him credit for, and I mean the last part in a good way.  It's understandable, given the tenor of the times, that people like Collins need to be portrayed as being above politics, but that was part of his shrewdness.  Also, though Kitty Kiernan may have been a real person, and Julia Roberts certainly tries, one can't help feeling that her part is superfluous.  It's not her fault, of course.Still, this is quite a powerful movie, and one of the nice things is how Jordan doesn't romanticize the IRA, but confronts it soberly.  Also, the spy stuff is well done, and Stephen Rea is terrific as the policeman who spies for Collins.  Alan Rickman also does well as de Valera, and while the movie is clearly unsympathetic towards him, Rickman does give him enough so that we don't completely dismiss him. "},{"Title":"Terrific, Tense and Exciting....despite Julia Roberts","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Michael Collins is a great filmmaking achievement with a towering performance by Liam Neeson. So good was he that he should have at least been nominated for Best Actor. As stated above, it is tense and exciting, made all the more so by virtue of the fact that it is (nearly) historically accurate, a bloody, David vs Goliath-type saga of a rebellion by an oppressed people against a despotic foreign government. No quarrel with production values or photography, and acting is outstanding down to the smallest part.And then there is Julia Roberts. Miscast and without the wherewithal to overcome it, the picture throws out its anchor each time she is on screen. She accounts for at least 15-20 minutes of time wasted on a film which is of precarious length, leaving the viewer looking at his watch waiting for action to proceed. I imagine those in charge thought she would draw more people in to theaters but she almost has the opposite effect.That said, I don't think anything could spoil this tour de force by Neeson. I don't understand why the film was not more of a success when it was released, the drawback of Miss Roberts notwithstanding. Having an iron in the fire, I feel it is an important film as an historical document for those of us contributors who are of Irish descent. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Neil Jordan has done an excellent job in capturing the life and times of Ireland's greatest Martyr. Michael Collins is shown through a light that doesn't glorify the killings he ordered but it really almost reflects on how much he wanted peace. The opening scene showing the Easter Rebellion couldn't have been any more real. It truly shows how this small group of Patriots were left to be lambs to the slaughter while Ireland would only look on until that grim day when one by one they were lined up and shot. Showing Connolly shot in the chair really hits a chord and shows the lack of humanity the British used with the Irish. The only problem I had with the movie was that it didn't show more of the brutality that the Black and Tans unleashed on the land. There were only three scenes where you saw them torturing citizens and shooting the innocent. These soldiers were so brutal that their own officers were ashamed of what they did. Personally I think there should have been a little more details shown of that before the Cario Gang was killed.Finally the closing scenes when Collins meets his maker were done to perfection. The shadow casted on from Béalnabláth really shows one of the more darker days of Irish history. I love when they show the funeral montage and mention how he tried to take the gun out of Irish Politics when it was a gun that took him out of Politics. Great movie. I think any Irish American to watch this movie and see how back home the most powerfull Empire in the World was brought to its knees by the bloody actions by one man.  "}{"Title":"Very Good Film Adaption of Difficult Subject Matter","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Contains Spoilers Michael Collins is a very good action film, as well as an excellent depiction of early guerrilla warfare in an anti-colonial, urban setting. If you are interested in history and would like to learn about how anti-colonial uprisings succeed or fail, watch this film. It is a must for ANYONE interested in Irish history, also. Some of the facts might not be completely accurate, such as the scene when the British soldiers shoot up the Football Match at Croke Park with tanks. ((They actually scaled walls and began to shoot with rifles, but Jordan wanted a quick scene. Also, when reading the books concerning Collins, the British Government Representative on Ireland, Hammar Greenwood, claimed that the IRA members shot first from inside the crowd. Similar to 'Bloody Sunday' in Derry in 1972.))That being said, the action and escalation between the IRA and the British moves pretty well, culminating in what was the first 'Bloody Sunday' in Nov. 1921. ((The IRA execute an elite squad of British undercover agents in one day. These were supposed Bond-esque 007-types, according to Jordan's script. History refers to them simply as alleged British officers. Following the assassinations was the massacre at Croke Park mentioned above.)) Afterwards, following the jubilation of the Irish celebrating an apparent victory over the British after 700 years, the movie, as well as the story, turns. The Irish turn on each other over Oath of Allegiance to the Crown, as well as the Partition of the Protestant-majority northern counties. The film more or less skips the ethnic/sectarian strife that plagues the North and focuses more on the split in the republican movement in the South. Collins' view of the Anglo-Irish Treaty as a Stepping Stone to a republic is vindicated by history, although he does not live to see this day. Obviously, the republican movement still has not realized its dream of a united Ireland, with no British authority anywhere.Performances Neeson is excellent as Collins; Good performances by Stephen Rea as the Castle Spy Brohy. Aidan Quinn is decent as Harry Borland. Rickman is excellent as the Machiavellan DeValera. Julia Roberts just plain stinks as Kitty. The accent is awful, as well as her character development. Obviously, she was put in this film for one reason As a box office draw. She, and that strategy, did not work. The film flopped at the U.S. box office, as does pretty much any Irish-related subject, especially movies that do not paint IRA soldiers as mindless evil bastards ('Patriot Games', 'Blown Away'). These guerrilla/soldiers/terrorists (depending on your viewpoint) are depicted as complicated men who often find their tasks of assassinating other men difficult at best. Again, great film if you want to learn about the tragedy that is Irish History, as well as understanding how colonial uprisings (what Americans and British call terrorism) evolve. "},{"Title":"Dramatic but patchy account of Ireland's fight for freedom","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although I enjoyed watching Michael Collins purely as another angle on the uprising and civil war, it would take an awful lot longer than just over two hours to get the whole story across. There have been so many men and women involved in the fight for Ireland's freedom that it would be impossible to do them all justice, or even mention all of them in passing, in the one film. Because the history of the centuries old fight for independence is so complex and involved, this film manages to give no more than a sketchy outline of one brief but extremely bloody period of that history. The only facet of Collins' character that is focused on is his bravery when he was also a shrewd and highly intelligent member of the Irish Republican Army. Even then, his toughness (from what I've read, quite brutish at times) is mostly skimmed over. I honestly don't think that big Mick Collins was quite the romantic that this film made him out to be. Also, De Valera seems to be portrayed simply as a political figure and his bravery in the fight is all but ignored. Remember, he was in that post office in 1916 too. It's a credit to Alan Rickman's professionalism (I'm assuming he researched his character well) that De Valera doesn't come across as the total villain of the piece because the script gave him nothing to work with in trying to instil any sympathy in his character.The major flaw in this film is that many of its viewers, unaware of the full picture, would come away with a pretty cock-eyed, patchy view of what went on in Ireland in the first few decades of the Twentieth century. There is plenty of scene setting to give us an exciting perspective of the fighting itself but it seems to me that the Dublin portrayed is a lot glossier that the real thing at that point in the city's history. Where are the tenement slums and the people in rags? An all too real reminder of Britain's cruel dominance of the country and the devastating famine of the previous century. Anyone who isn't in the know might come away believing that the good citizens of Ireland's capital were used to taking high tea in the afternoon and lived in spacious, well-maintained buildings. Also, what is the point of mentioning in passing G-Men, Black and Tans and The Twelve Apostles if nothing is done to explain to the viewer exactly who these people are and what their significance is in the plot? I remember my grandmother relating first hand accounts of the Black and Tans and she did more to bring to life the horrific brutality of these British volunteers than Neil Jordan's film managed. He also managed to leave out the far more dangerous Auxies altogether. From this film, you might believe that the only soldiers that the British government sent over the deal with the Irish Problem were the Black and Tans but they were just the first lot. When those veterans of the First World War failed to quell the uprising, the far more brutal and professional Auxiliaries followed them, long before the treaty of 1922.Like I say, it would take a lot more time than Neil Jordan had at his disposal to really do his subject (by which I also mean the other characters and their struggle) justice. However, Michael Collins has probably done a good deal to bring to people's attention just how vicious the British could be towards the Irish. Accounts of the continuing troubles can often be very biased, with the only villains portrayed being the IRA. This movie, with its scenes of brutal slayings of crowds of innocent people, at least lets millions of people know that the British have been capable of atrocities that are every bit as bad as the Mainland bombings of the modern IRA. I could never condone either but I'm glad Jordan has taken the opportunity to show that such violence isn't as one-sided as the British press would have us believe.  Finally, if you really want to know about the history of Ireland's struggle for freedom, I suggest you turn to the many books that have been written on this subject and the biographies of the people involved. But if all you want is to see an entertaining and dramatic movie then watch Michael Collins. It's heavy going at times but I think you might enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Begob, another Oirish cliché","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"13 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It all looked so promising - at last, a big-budget movie about Ireland's history and actually directed and screenwritten by an Irishman! Tax breaks from the Irish government and thousands of Dubliners willing to work for free as extras gave it an added boost.So what went wrong? First of all, we have the Oirish cliches. Take this one. Mr Collins makes a speech on a donkey cart. There were such things as platforms in early 20th century Ireland, but let that pass. Then the polis come. Collins gets down from the cart and headbutts someone. Mob take out many hurleys and start headwhacking. The whys and wherefores are a mystery here. It's the modern version of the obligatory barfight scene. For a sense of the lost dramatic potential of such a scene, read this report from England's 'Daily Mail' about a mass meeting in Ennis, Co. Clare addressed by de Valera, in 1917 De Valera's arrival on the platform...was the signal for shattering cheers. In the square and its converging streets he faced 10,000 men; the remainder stood 'on guard' beyond the range of his commanding eye...As the cheers roared around him, De Valera held up his hand. There was instantly a dead silence...He himself said very little. 'I am not here to speak,' he cried. 'The time for speechmaking is over. The time to act has come!'And then the story. It is well known that most real lives don't translate very well to the screen, so subtelty and imagination must be applied liberally. Unfortunately, Collins's true story doesn't lend itself very well to a movie, as the story of, say, Patrick Pearse or Éamon de Valera would. Their lives had a real straightforwardness that is lacking here. Instead of fictionalising the character, which is always necessary in movies, Jordan used the actual facts and twisted them, which only usually works in history, when the historian isn't very particular about the truth. Thus, instead of being a valuable asset to the republican movement, Collins *is* the republican movement - so much for poor aul' Cathal Brugha, who organised the War of Independence, with the assistance of Richard Mulcahy and the constant involvement of de Valera, who was the senior surviving commander from the 1916 Rising. (Brugha was also a prominent 1916 survivor.) Believe it or not, Collins *was* just the 'head of a subsection', as Cathal Brugha (portrayed as a raving lunatic, naturally) famously said. One doesn't wish to underestimate Collins's role, but it was almost exclusively in intelligence. Think of how interesting a film based on Collins's espionage might have been, instead of the fruitless insistence that he was the Big Fella, he really was!Instead of the statesman that he was (recognised all but officially as the President of the Irish Republic in America, where he toured and raised funds in 1919-20), de Valera 'becomes' a mere conniver, whose only interest is...well, it's not explained, really, but we just *know* he's evil. He also had a much greater involvement in the War of Independence than he's given credit for, and neither he nor Brugha approved of Collins's occasional 'revenge' killings. And so on.As for the cast, the standard was poor. Neeson was alright, but the others were, frankly, atrocious. (Poor aul' Harry Boland, portrayed as a weakling by Quinn, was most definitely *not* killed in a sewer but gunned down in a hotel room by a murder gang. And why was Dev, in his 30s at the time, made to look old enough to be a grandfather? And let's not mention the woeful miscasting of Julia Roberts...)Such a pity, really. I'm just waiting until they make a film about someone such as Dev. Someone of such real integrity, political wisdom and statesmanlike qualitites deserves a better showing than this, as do most of the other people portrayed in a skewed light by Jordan in this film. (And by the bye, merely from a dramatic standpoint, why was de Valera the principal villain, and not the British, apart from a couple of evil soldiers who were got rid of by bloody assassination or imollation? Err, weren't the Irish supposed to be fighting the British?) I think we all deserve something better, really, after so much Hollywood misinterpretation of Ireland.  "},{"Title":"Its a film of true History","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film is basically how the Irish gained independence from the brutal hands of the British. It gives an in-depth view of the troubles and what was done. One comment said that the fight was more or less the fault of the Irish in reality it shows that the Irish only fought for what was there's. Near the end it shows how the dirty 'Black nd Tans' had broke into a football game and shot at unarmed men women and children.In a short story it simply says of the hardship the Irish has had to put up with for over 800 years (at the time, now 900) and how the Irish have the will, the power and the need to fight for the next 900 years if needed. "},{"Title":"A great movie of a great man","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I did not know anything about Michael Collins until I saw this movie. What I know now is that Michael Collins is not only a legend of Irish history, his was the man who changed the world by fighting against the British empire. I am sure that no former British colony in Africa or another continent would be a country today if this man would not live. "},{"Title":"Moving and beautifully filmed, The Greatest Historical Film","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is film making at it's best. It wonderfully depicts the culture of Ireland and the mentality of it's people. The style of certain shots was wonderful, and the score was fitting. The best part of this film, and which makes it so moving is the character development,and how Jordan can get the viewer attached to the two wonderful characers Michael Collins and Harry of which were superbly acted. They way the two characters interacted made us love them and care deeply for them. Neil Jordan pulled the audience into the film and made us laugh and cry with the characters. The character of Brye also made the character feel his emotions. The movie also had very moving and well done action sequences, that depicted the atrocoties committed by the horrific British soldiers and government. The beginning sequence of the terrible loss at Easter Risingh of which were superbly acted. They way the two characters interacted made us love them and care deeply for them. Neil Jordan pulled the audience into the film and made us laugh and cry with the characters. The character of Brye also made the character feel his emotions. This film is definetly one of the top 5 of the Nineties and the top 20 of all time. It is a film of hope, of strength under horrible circumstances and a film about on of the greatest men of our time Michael Collins.   10 out of 10, if you liked this I would also reccoment, Braveheart, Gandhi, The Devil's Own, and The Shawshank Redemption (shawshank not for plot or theme, but for similar protagonist) this is a must see for any and every fan Film. "},{"Title":"This fine movie led me to months of research on the life of Michael Collins and Irish history","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was so intrigued by the movie that I spent days in the Wellesley library and ordered every book I could find in order to learn more about the life and times of Michael Collins = the fact that this preceded the Troubles in Northern Ireland, and finally, the Peace Accord.  Tim Pat Coogan is the great biographer of Michael Collins and makes him live again in all the details of his short life.  Coogan also wrote a very negative biography on Eamonn deValera, also portrayed with depth unusual for movies in the movie. In Ireland one can buy a book called The Love Letters between Michael Collins and Kitty Kiernan.  I have yet to find them here.  I bought the Video and have viewed it many times, also donated a copy to the Wellesley College library for their history course on Irish Nationalism.  There is a new documentary (1998) entitled Hang Up Your Brightest Colors, the life and times of Michael Collins.  There is actually live movie film showing the real characters in l920-1922, AND real film of the funeral some of which we saw in the fictional movie Michael Collins.  People interested in this subject should see Some Mother's Son, The Devil's Own, and In the Name of the Father. "},{"Title":"A towering cinematic achievement","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Collins is a towering cinematic achievement.Being of pure Irish descent,I have always had a strong interest in books anf films about Ireland,especially history.When my parents took my wife and I to see this,I was totally blown away.It's depiction of the cruelty of the British and Collins'fight against them is truly harrowing.Liam Neeson is the only actor who could have realistically taken on the role of Michael Collins and he delivers one of the finest performances I have ever seen.Alan Rickman also delivers a masterful performance as Eamon De Valera.Some people had a problem with this film's portrayal of De Valera,including my mother,who is a native of County Clare,Ireland and views De Valera  as a hero.Rickman brings in some good nuances that help leaven the otherwise nagative portrayal of Dev.Aidan Quinn is also excellent as Harry Boland,and it is in the depiction of the changing relationship between Mick and Harry that the film is sometimes at its most powerful and heartbreaking.I didn't have as much of a problem with Julia Roberts's portrayal of Kitty Kiernan(who was really Mick's fiancee,she existed)as others do.I thought she did well.I also liked Stephen Rea as Ned Broy and Ian Hart as Joe O'Reilly.Neil Jordan writes and directs excellently,though he does sometimes play a bit fast and loose with the facts.This movie inspired me to read Tim Pat Coogans excellent biography of Michael Collins which I also recommend.This is one of my favorite films  ever. An enthusiastic 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Michael Collins","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Director Neil Jordan (The Crying Game) has created a very interesting biographical drama about the 'Lion of Ireland'. Michael Collins (Golden Globe nominated Liam Neeson) is the man leading the IRA, determined to stop the British ruining the establishment of the Irish Free State (Eire) during the the 1920s. It is quite struggle to get freedom, and there are many Irish people joining in with his large campaign for freedom, but don't worry, there is always a happy ending, isn't there? Also starring BAFTA nominated Alan Rickman as Eamon De Valera, Julia Roberts as Kitty Kiernan and Harry Potter and the Philosopher Stone's Ian Hart as Joe O'Reilly. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography and Best Music for Elliot Goldenthal, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Cinematography, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score. Liam Neeson was number 15, and Alan Rickman number 6 on The 50 Greatest British Actors. Very good! "},{"Title":"Borrrrrring...","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the only time I have ever actually FALLEN ASLEEP in a movie theatre. While the scenery is beautiful in this movie, it goes on and on and ON and truly seems that it will never end. Once a subplot finally, FINALLY resolves and you think Yay, it's over!, it will switch to something else. Truly, I cannot recall more false endings in my life in a movie.Have plenty of caffeine if you rent this one. I suppose if you love history, it might be for you, but it is NOT a fast-paced film (not that every film has to be, of course) and I challenge you to get through it without yawning. Nuff said. "}{"Title":"A yawner","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I expected a little more from this movie, since it got a 6.8 rating, and thats not bad, but after 20 minutes of this movie, I realized it was just another dull british drama, I hate to affend anyone, but this film is awfully dull.  I mean all the characters are exactly the same, and even Liam Neeson is dull.  The story could have been powerful, but it ends up getting lost in all of the characters, and action scenes.  Even Julia Roberts is wasted as his wife.  3/10. "}]