[{"Title":"Heroism Is Now Fantasy (and that's just unrealistic!)","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"96 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's hard to believe that a movie that so hits the mark set by its original intentions can receive some of the stupid, silly and brainless reviews seen in these pages. This is a movie based on the original comic book hero, so yes, we have a character in a costume. If that's a problem for you because it's unrealistic, well what would be realistic for you? Lots of blood, sex with movie-star-hot men or women, big explosions, exit wounds? Lots of that in your everyday life, I assume? And yes, a lot of fantastic, unrealistic things happen in this film, which may also pose a problem for you if your sense of wonder is limited to things like who is going to win the next Survivor. Yet all of these fantastic unrealistic things are all directly related to the concepts of heroism and villainy.This entire movie is about heroes and villains, right down to the cab driver. It is not about how Billy Zane looks in purple spandex, or how hot the female leads are, or how much you hate Treat Williams' over-the-top performance, or how you think it rips off Indiana Jones (funny, I'm pretty sure Jones was a nod, in part, to the Phantom!). If these are your only reactions after watching this movie then you have indeed wasted your time. Fortunately, time like yours isn't very valuable when you would probably rather waste it spending days playing the next version of Grand Theft Auto.The Phantom revisits the concept of heroes. I'm not talking about people like Vin Diesel, Pamela Anderson, 50 Cent, or this year's American Idol. Heroes are people who have character, integrity, morality, and courage; people who stand for, and stand up for, what is right. With so little of this in the world around us today, I guess it's not surprising that so many people have a problem with the concept. These days the hero is the person who can kill the most opponents (I can't call them bad guys here), screw over the most people, get the most toys, or have sex with the hottest hotties. Basically, we now equate heroism with personal gain and success.The Phantom, like all true heroes, does what he does because it is the right thing to do, not because he stands to gain from it. He is capable of performing selfless acts that can make a difference for the better, and on top of that, he does so anonymously! How often do you see that in today's society? Drax is a villain because he is the villain, not because we see him slaughtering innocents or committing some other purely evil crime. We don't need to see Singh's band blow up a ship full of people with body parts flying in slow motion to understand they are also villains. It might require a bit of imagination, which also seems to be in short supply these days, but the idea is that they are as bad as you can imagine them to be. Once again that sense of wonder has to come into play. The only thing I'm left wondering is how anyone who sat down to watch this movie couldn't have known this.In a nutshell The Phantom is a comic book character movie wherein the hero wears a cool purple costume and performs fantastic acts of heroism, gets the girl of his dreams, and defeats evil by being a paragon of virtue and valor. It is fun for all ages; the six kids that sat in front of me at the theatre had a blast, and my mother likes it too. The character's creator apparently approved of this film despite its slight deviations from the printed version. And I give this movie with heart and soul a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"good old fashioned ripping yarn","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"73 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie on TV last night and found it great fun.In the best sense of the word.Old fashioned film making, good guys and bad guys, clearly defined and a good tale, well told. OK there were flaws in there also(mainly the interior set pieces which look like sound stages), but they should be overlooked, as its not a serious film and is not pretending to be anything other than it is. Its a fantasy/adventure film, in the best tradition, the kind they don't make anymore,no special effects, to speak of, but good action, wonderful locations and some good acting, for this genre. I expect in this day of high tech special effects, it may seem less alluring to the more high tech minded but if your looking for some good old fashioned fun, this is one to watch. Not my favorite film, by any means but worth a look and deserves more than 5 out of 10, I give it 7 and hope somebody enjoys it for what it is, rather than what they feel it should be.A film for the family to enjoy on a rainy Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"64 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This 100-minute nugget of superhero charm was a lot more fun than I had expected. I subscribe to Netflix, the mail-in rental service, so I had forgotten which movie I had coming next. I groaned slightly when I saw The Phantom was it.I started watching, feeling that I was going to be in for a dud. About a week ago, I rented The Rocketeer---a mildly entertaining movie with some good moments, but didn't really add up to a DVD purchase or repeat viewings. I thought I was in for more of the same, but alas. The Phantom had all the charm, action and humor missing from Rocketeer.I particularly enjoyed the two leads. Billy Zane delivered the one-liners with aplomb. He has the swagger, voice, demeanor and charm to carry the role successfully. He transcends a rather mundane superhero outfit. Treat Williams gave an amusing turn as the villainous Xander Drax, (Starts and ends with X.) Not the typically evil superhero nemesis, he's more of a lighthearted villain in the Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor mold, but his line delivery is spot on.The movie definitely comes alive with the characterizations, a feel of a time and place early in the 20th century, and always on the move, but not too much in a hurry to make you enjoy these characters. I rather liked the idea of a superhero with a pet horse and wolf.I'm not sure I've seen a recent superhero film that strikes a perfect balance of action, humor, sets and characters. Enough humor to keep me smiling throughout, but mildly serious enough to engage me for the duration.Definitely worth a look for those who haven't seen it, and a future addition to my DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Harmless Old-Fashioned Comic Book Adventure","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"58 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An old-fashioned adventure yarn is the best description of this modern-day comic book-hero-come to life-story. This almost like one of those early Tim Burton directed-Batman type adventures without all the darkness. The language is mild (as it should be in these type of films), the special-effects are decent and the sound is good. Best of all is the scenery, some beautiful landscapes filmed in Thailand and Australia.Instead of the city being where our comic book hero performs his heroics, this is out in the jungle, more like an Indiana Jones-type story. It's fast-moving, it's hokey, it's unrealistic but its generally fun to watch. Even the villain (Xander Drax played by Treat Williams) isn't really all nasty.The Phantom (Billy Zane) has the normal off-and-on corny romance situation with feminist-journalist (does Hollywood know any other kind?) Diana Palmer (Kristy Swanson) and the film gives you an entertaining 100 minutes. It's no award-winner but at least it's something you watch with your kids. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Pulp Adventure","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Though taken, almost literally, from the comic strip, this wonderful film comes across more as a pulp magazine adventure, a delightful period piece with a noble hero, spunky heroine, great primary and secondary villains, and some breathtaking stunts and location shots. Treat Williams makes a marvelous villain, and James Remar, an underrated actor, plays his henchman, an Indiana Jones gone wrong. Catherine Zeta-Jones is the villainess, and Billy Zane seems to have been born to play The Phantom. Nice cameos by Patrick McGoohan and a New York cabbie. I said it once, but it's worth repeating fabulous stunts. Well directed, well paced, a triumph of adventure film-making. "},{"Title":"Comic Book Heroes","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There's always a danger in bringing comic book heroes to the screen in that most are pretty bad.  Some are satisfying, e.g., the Batman and Superman films come to mind.  But, the Phantom was essentially a strip comic by Lee Falk that I used to read as a kid and which had been around long before me (I'll be 65 this year).  I remember seeing the serial at the Saturday morning matinees and loved the comic strip.  Time passes and the Phantom faded and then, in 1993, I went to Somalia as a consultant during the UNITAF occupation and was billeted with the Aussies.  To my amazement, I discovered the Phantom was not only alive and well Down Under, but there were active comic books cults, conventions and the like there as well.  So, no wonder the film enjoyed a revival of a defunct strip but, alas, there is much to be desired in the effort and the final product is almost a parody of the original.  My wife and I saw it for a bargain matinee and I enjoyed it.  However, I suffer few illusions that it could not have been done better.  It was a romp and maybe, as one reviewer noted, Catherine Zeta-Jones was worth the price of admission.  Well, for my part, I liked young Billy Zane's Phantom with the sheepish grin, Treat Williams's sardonic evil smile and Christy Swanson's Diana, a pleasant departure from her Vampire staking role as Buffy.  It was also good to see Patrick McGoohan, former Secret Agent Man as the Phantom's predecessor.   I think this film is worth the price of a rental for a rainy afternoon.  "},{"Title":"Great action movie.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"40 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Having grown up with Lee Falk's The Phantom in the Sunday comic strip - I found this to be a very enjoyable action movie - - and much superior to the 1943 Tom Tyler version.I totally agree with a previous comment - that had this movie been released ten years earlier - during the Indiana Jones years - it would have fared much better at the box office.The action sequences were second to none - but were diluted by an attempt to introduce too many story lines into the plot.  Perhaps this was an attempt to appeal to too wide of an audience - in which case it suffered the fate of appealing to too few.  Perhaps one story line of the phantom vs the Sengh brotherhood would have fared better.The actors/actresses were not at fault in that the acting was excellent. However the appearance of weak acting - was in my opinion - due to the film not being able to carry the momentum of the action and suspense of the opening scenes - and as stated - having too many story lines to present a smooth continuum of action and suspense.All-in-all an excellent light hearted action film.Congratulations to the producers who created a worthy big screen version of Lee Falk's The Ghost Who Walks - and Billy Zane who breathed life into the character. "},{"Title":"Really, it's good fun !","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Reminiscent of The Rocketeer.  I wasn't going to see this at first, the comic strip did nothing for me.  But the newspaper reviews were quite positive.  Billy Zane is enjoyable in the role, and he worked his butt off to get those muscles.  That's no fake padding in his suit!!  This is a chance to see a pre-Mask of Zorro Catherine Zeta-Jones as the bad girl, altho her switch to the good side late in the film is unconvincing.  Kristy Swanson is also good fun.  I even liked James Remar as Quill - he mostly does TV series now.  Beautiful filming locations and a snappy, crisp story line.  It's a fun movie - try it & see! "},{"Title":"The best superhero movie made to date.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"34 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you go to a superhero movie and you have problems with guys wearing tight spandex, then you'd better just close your eyes.  Superheroes wear tight clothes...get over it.  I think one of the best parts of this film is that they make very little reference to it.  The Henson Creature Shop did an excellent job re-creating the look of the classic Phantom character while giving it just a bit more style.  As for the characters, they were light and enjoyable.  They don't need to be deep or meaningful..they need to be comic characters and they succeeded admirably.  The plot was simple, but engaging and the villains were perfect, no good, evil comic book baddies. This is a great movie to give you the feel for what the real old adventure serials were about. "},{"Title":"Batman meets Raiders of the Lost Ark","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"33 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable movie, enough action to keep interest, yet clean enough and without gory violence for the kids.I used to enjoy following the comic serial in the local paper when I was younger.  It was discontinued in my local paper a long time ago, but it was refreshing to see this theatrical adaptation made to possibly renew interest in this ancient hero, especially to the younger crowd.This is Billy Zane's shining moment in theater because #1, he did not have quite a big role in Titanic, and #2, he was such a dink in that movie anyway.Treat Williams gives the best effort in this movie IMHO, it is a bit overacted, but he maintains the balance between humor and being dastardly evil.The basic premise of the movie, to Phantom newcomers, is that The Phantom is a superhero that fights for what is right in the African Jungle.  The Phantom is called the Ghost who Walks, because he has survived for 400 years.  Little does anyone know that the Phantom lives on because each Phantom grooms his son to take the mantle of the Phantom should the present Phantom faces an untimely death.  Unique to most superheroes, he uses guns, yet he makes every effort to not kill anyone he apprehends.  He resides in the Skull Cave (Wonder if the makers of the Masters of the Universe owes Lee Falk some chunka chunka for this idea).  The Phantom has the loyalty of many of the natives that reside in the jungle and receives much assistance from them.In this adaptation, a thug from NYC by the name of Xander Drax has his henchmen attempt to procure 3 mystical skulls which gives dark powers to he who possesses them.  The Phantom acts to thwart his efforts, as he knows the power these skulls contain.This film contains action on land, sea, and air.  Catherine Zeta Jones plays one of Drax's stooges.  Her character has more depth than most of the characters in this movie.As much as I enjoyed the movie, there are some things that make you go Hmmmm...A horse and a wolf can both keep pace with a biplane speeding across the jungle.  The Phantom must have fed them thier Wheaties...The Phantom's alter ego, aka Kit Walker, takes a cab in New York City.  He initally offers Bengala currency to the cabbie, then he offers a mitfull of jewels.  Now, when you give a NY cabbie a handfull of what appears to be costume jewelry to the untrained eye, chances are you get screamed at severely at best (taking into consideration this took place in the 1930's, nowadays, the same action could get you brutalized in someway.)Another is the Phantom chases Xander Drax and jumps into the water and clings onto the plane they take to the Devil's Vortex.  Now, if any human being grabs onto a plane soaking wet, hangs on when the airplane is so many thousands of feet above ground where the air is colder and thinner, you would be freezing and getting light headed from the depleted oxygen as you hang on outside during a trip across the Atlantic.My favorite part of the movie, aside from the great scenery, is how Xander Drax explains his name to Kabai Sengh in spelling bee fashion (Xander Drax! X A N D E R  D R A X! Xander Drax!).Well, this movie has a great ending, which I will not give out.  Any fan of movies such as Raiders of the Lost Ark or Jewel of the Nile would really like this one.Enjoy!  "}{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Billy Zane is right-on as the lead in this movie.  Everyone seemed to have a good time making this flick and I had a good time watching it. It is not an Indiana Jones rip-off and it is not at all cheesy.  Yes, it's a little hard to look at a man in a tight purple outfit and not want to chuckle, but it's all based on a comic book . . .Great stuff.  Much more entertaining than The Shadow.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Adaptation!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie does the character justice in so many ways.  For those of you that don't like it, you may be expecting too much from it.  Watch it as if you were a kid.  Billy Zane was a excellent choice to play this character. Treat Williams is way over the top!  Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa as the Evil Kabai Sengh chews enough scenery that the film should bunch in the projector. All I can say is enjoy! "},{"Title":"Someone did their homework","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not many people realize that the Phantom is THE FIRST comic book hero, pre-dating Superman and pre-dating Batman. I grew up on the classic Lee Falk comic strip hero in my local newspaper. The ads for this film made me suspect it would be faithful to the character and storyline.  When the film opens with the comic strip's classic line For those who came in late&#133; (always used between the end of one storyline and the beginning of the next with one-day strip with a brief synopsis/reminder of the origin of the Phantom), I got goose bumps and the film maintained its integrity, unlike people who have no clue as to who is The Phantom. While some alternations were made for it to be a little more PC (the Phantom's local pygmy people are omitted, possibly replaced by the Rope People we see at one point), the film's flavour remained untarnished.  I can see why Billy Zane fought so hard for the role. Treat Williams clearly had a blast chewing up the scenery as the villain. Then-newcomer Catherine Zeta-Jones certainly had we males dislocating our jaws with amazement (it always pained me later she'd be referred to mostly as Catherine Zeta-Jones from Zorro for a time, as though this tongue-in-cheek action adventure film was to be neglected). For the non-intellect, this film may fare better on tape or on cable.  For those who know the character from his origins, see it either there or if it should ever hit theatrical re-release. The saddest thing about this film is it has not yet spanned a series of sequels.  "},{"Title":"Heroes should entertain","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I found The Phantom entertaining in the colorful sets, interesting props, good story line, and almost-believable characters. The movie displayed much like a comic book re-enactment. I want my heroes to be honorable and fantastic. I enjoyed this movie very much, and watch it every time it airs on cable. "},{"Title":"PHANTOM, Ghost who walks, deserved sequel or two!!","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Maybe it's just me, but this is surely one film adapted from a well known, long existing, world famous Comic Strip, which deserved a better fate and a sequel or two! First of all, it was a really good looking production. It had no signs of frugality any where. In other words, the picture looked good, pleasing to the eye. It had good color work.The casting was tops, the actors in their roles would be hard to beat.Billy Zane in particular charged into the role with both true professional acting and an obvious understanding and appreciation of the character. He probably grew up with the PHANTOM, following the strip in the pages of the Chicago American, being a native Chicagoan. It appears that he spent a lot of time in the weight room in preparing to wear that skin tight costume. He surely looked the part.The story was exciting and it changed locals enough to give a balance to the Phantom's residence in a fictional Asian jungle country to the coming to New York. It's always good for an adventure film like this to have a little contrast in locales, peoples, cultures, etc, etc.Humor is present in the film, but it was not supposed to be a farce. There seems to be a tendency to go with the camp humor whenever the property is derived from comic pages.But it's not so here.The producers did a great job of adapting this comic strip hero on to the screen, while remaining extremely faithful to the original concept, and providing a screen play suitable for a '90's audience. Like I've been saying, why no sequels? "},{"Title":"Wonderful little adventure/romance/comedy/super-hero mystical fantasy","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Phantom is a much underrated movie. Big is not necessarily better, and the competing movies with bigger and more numerous special effects do not necessarily provide a more enjoyable experience.The Phantom is set in an idealized, industrial 1930's, beautifully photographed. The story is simple and is concisely and clearly told, both visually and in dialogue. The characters are amusingly campy without absurd exaggeration. All the actors play their parts well, with just the right amounts of camp and sincerity. The action is fast-paced, but never gets confusing or over-stimulating. The stunts and special effects are great and support the story. There are no misfit special effects or stunts for-their-own sake to detract from the story. The comedic elements fit the story line wonderfully - some one-liners are perfect and give big laughs.In short, Phantom has the best elements of Romancing the Stone and Raiders of the Lost Ark, without suffering from the excesses of those more popular films. "},{"Title":"Exactly what you'd expect from a comic book hero of the 30s","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The comic book heroes of the 30s were direct, earnest, and simple. They can't compete with today's video game characters, which is why most younger viewers won't be impressed with simple story and will miss all the million-dollar special effects they've come to expect. However, if you like a simple, direct mystery/adventure/romance just like the comic books of Phantom's era, you'll probably enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Comic strip come to life","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm in the camp of those who learned to love the Phantom as a comic strip and are thrilled to see him brought to such vivid life on the screen. The fabulous cinematography keeps the Ghost Who Walks riding, running, swimming and fighting his way through this film. Far from being a rip-off of Indiana Jones or Batman, Phantom is the inspiration for these characters and the period of adventure between the wars. To those who bristle at some of the campy dialogue, it's important to remember that this was a comic strip that ran in the Sunday paper--it's not supposed to be taken too seriously. Billy Zane acquits himself well as a young, vigorous version of Phantom, who will grow older and wiser. Catherine Zeta-Jones is not only beautiful but has some great lines (to the thugs assigned to take care of Kit Walker/Phantom, I'll come to claim the body). So sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie - we need more","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now this is the type of film we need more of.  Adventure, heroics, action, but without all of stuff that takes away from a good movie...vulgarity, sexual scenes, etc.  It takes intelligence and skill to write a movie without filling it with these distractions, and this movie pulls it off nicely.  My family and I watched it, and we love it.  Hope there will be a Phantom 2. "},{"Title":"A fun movie as the hero's creator envisioned him.","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Fun,campy, and action filled. True to Lee Falk's vision of the legendary hero. Billy Zane plays the role to perfection. Take a walk with the ghost who walks. Now, if only there was a PHANTOM 2! "}{"Title":"This movie is a MUST SEE","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For those who like Rocketteer, Deep Rising, Tremors, Pitch Black, This is a movie for YOU. It has all the thrills of a roller-coaster. It's like watching a comicbook. Roger Rabbit is another. Believe anything, relax, and don't take it too seariously, and you will love this film. It has brainless, popcorn fun for multiple viewings. The Shadow is another. If you like any of these films, you will like this one. Some people go to movies to change there lives. Others just go for fun. This is for those people.Simple. "},{"Title":"Slam Evil!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I got a copy of this flick on DVD for my birthday, and watched it last night. It had been years since I saw it on HBO, but about two or three weeks back, ABC played it as one of their movies of the week.What a great action flick! Not the best ever, mind you, but damn enjoyable. Treat Williams was a little to over the top for my tastes as a villain, but Billy Zane was right on as the Ghost who walks, a classic comic strip and book character out of the thirties and forties. I enjoyed all of this movie,and am glad it's now part of my permanent collection. It's one of those movies that draws your attention with riveting action and suspense, and makes you sit there. A worthy bookend to flicks like the Rocketeer, and the Shadow. Good cast selection , too. Kristy Swanson is always a babe, no matter her hair color,and Catherine Zeta-Jones, well, what can you say about her? As a sort of anti-hero female pirate/pilot , she was damn cool.  I liked this one a lot. to bad they didn't make any sequels for it. I guess to many people don't have  a knowledge of the legendary Phantom. "},{"Title":"Great actors, refreshing film.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Billy Zane was great, Catherine Zeta-Jones was sexy and Treat Williams as villain was evil. Indian servant was new. Better than Guran actually. The power of the rings was unquestionably too much but the ending of the movie is so great that one has to forgive this magic-bit. "},{"Title":"Better than its reputation","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It has good acting and a good character. If your a fan of the comic you won't be disappointed. My only complaint, and it is a big one, is the supernatural aspect to the story line which usually was not featured in the old comic strip. I like the Phantom character, so this was fun. 3 stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"A great trip...","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, it's not the best film ever made, but it's a fun ride.  It takes the famous comic strip to the level of the silver screen without losing the very comic-bookish flavor; yet, it doesn't overplay that aspect as did the 1990 Warren Beatty Dick Tracy film.  Due to excellent casting, Zane achieves believability in the role of Kit Walker/The Phantom, and Treat Williams is brilliant as the riotous playboy-turned-villain.  You can also catch Catherine Zeta-Jones here (before she was famous).  Jeffrey Boam's writing rivals his other projects (Indiana Jones & The Last Crusade, etc.) for charm and dialogic alacrity.  What's more, it's a relatively clean film--where there is opportunity for violence, gore and strong profanity, the film substitutes humor or moves the action offscreen.  The stunts and acrobatic feats are incredible.  (And that horse is gorgeous...)This movie falls into the same category as The Rocketeer and other such fun flicks.  However, don't go into this film expecting it to be a hard-hitting action adventure or Temple of Doom revisited.  It is exactly what it pretends to be a fun, enjoyable Saturday-matinee-style movie. Have fun with it--don't pick out each part to criticize, but just sit back and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"True to the original comics and a great romp in true pulp magazine style","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie captures the true spirit of the original Phantom comics. Everything is done right. The time period, the fighting styles, the characterisations, and the whole look of the film are perfect. If you have ever read a Phantom comic and enjoyed it, then see this movie and you'll not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Movie for the Collection","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not being a child of the Radio Age, I wasn't familiar with The Phantom, but after watching this movie I finnaly knew what my grandparents were always talking about. This movie was a magical thrill ride that set the perspective of the 50's and all its wonder. The Phantom wasn't another 'super hero' that could fly, or had super strength, but an ordinary person with a heart of gold. This magical adventure was a movie for the classics, and is a great addition to your home theater. "},{"Title":"My favorite adaptation of a pulp/comic strip hero.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Of all the recent pulp hero adaptation to the big screen, this one ranks as the best so far.  Doc Savage was too campy.  The Shadow was disappointing, The Spirit was too small and the Rocketeer was an echo of the entire genre. But the Phantom, thanks to performances from Billy Zane, Treat Williams and Catherine-Zeta Jones, came alive on the screen.  There was humor, drama, excitement, suspense and action galore.  This film had all the elements of a successful pulp novel or newspaper serial.  The cinematography, especially on the location shots, was breathtaking.  Billy Zane is very believable as Kit Walker both in and out of costume.  The faithfulness of the film to the original stories is also excellent. "},{"Title":"Pulp/Comic Book hero at its best!!!1","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is what those chapter serials at Republic were all about. There's adventure, action, color, humor and heroics. If you never read a comic book and think they're barmy then don't bother renting it; this film is a Sunday comic strip come to life.  "},{"Title":"Good Clean Entertainment","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked it. It was refreshing to watch an action/adventure feature that wasn't filled with unimaginative four-letter words or eyefuls of naked female flesh. It is a classic, easily recognizable good vs. evil adventure, with readily identifiable heros and villains. I would class it more with The Rocketeer, rather than with the Indiana Jones movies, even though it has much of the same look. It offers no reason to cover the kids' eyes or mute the volume, nor will adults be bored. The movie doesn't really drag anywhere, and even offers a few lively flashes, in short Simply enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Exciting version of the popular comic books about the immortal Masked Man","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Thrilling and fun picture loosely based on Lee Falk's first stories from The Phantom comic strip , The Singh Brotherhood and The Sky Band . The story takes place in 1938/39 , just before the United States entered World War II . Our stalwart hero (Billy Zane) lives in a cave lair on the deep as well as dangerous Bengalla jungle with his wolf-dog and a servant . He discovers his destiny and 400 years old legacy when his mysterious late father (Patrick McGoohan) tells him that he must carry on his legacy as a superhero called The Panthom , the Ghost who walks , a seemingly immortal crime fighter and descendant of a line of African heroes . The Skull is a dominate symbol in The Phantom's life , as he lives in the Skull Cave, he wears the Skull Ring, and he is trying to find three Skulls . A purple suit renders a mask and belt and he finds himself battling his dad's nemesis (James Remar) . Meanwhile , the bad guy Xander Drax carries out his search for a weapon of doom . Phantom is helped by an attractive journalist heiress (Kristy Swanson) and travel to dangerous streets N.Y. to thwart a nasty criminal . They confront a villain named Drax (Treat Williams) , underlings (Catherine Zeta Jones as a beautiful vamp) and other allied with local power  the Mayor (Leon Russom) and Police commissioner (Al Ruscio) . Drax is a cold and megalomaniac killer who murders cruelty his victims (as the horrifying killing with microscope on his first victim calling him  Liar), he is looking for three sacred skulls of Tuganda which united create a rousing energy , originating a supernatural power ; besides , involving brotherhood Syn pirates (led by Cary Tagawa).Film gets exotic locations , derring-do , adventures , rip-roaring , action-packed and humor with tongue-in-cheek . It's a cinematic roller coaster , pretty entertaining and with very well made action set pieces . The picture is a crossover among Lee Falk (created in 1936) comic-strip hero , Indiana Jones feats , Saturday matinée serials and old-fashioned thirties movies . Nice acting from Billy Zane and Catherine Zeta-Jones , both of whom starred in two Titanic films . The picture has great loads of action , special effects abundant and spectacular David Newman's musical score . The motion picture was rightly directed by Simon Wincer . Although Joe Dante was originally slated to direct, but left due to other commitments ; before this , Joel Schumacher was considered for the directing job . This movie was originally going to be the first of a trilogy . However , after it bombed at the box office, the two sequels were canceled . The flick will appeal to adventure fans and comic-books enthusiastic . Rating  Good and amusing . Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"much better 9 years later","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ever watch a movie with the wrong frame of reference or in a bad mood, not like it and watch it again years later and like it? That's me and this flick. I saw it on video in late 1996 and hated it. I never thought I'd watch it again. In fact I can't figure out why I decided to track down a copy and watch it again in early 2005, but I did and I liked it. This movie, staring eye candy Billy Zane (for the ladies--like this movie even plays to the average female!), Kristy Swanson AND Catherine Zeta-Jones (for the men), also featuring Treat (b-movie star) Williams and Patrick (I am not a number! I am a free man!) McGoohan, adapts the old comic 'The Phantom' to the silver screen. On screen the bright purple costume (without the Batman movie mood setting) sticks out like a sore thumb against the lush jungle background. Luckily all the actors involved knew what kind of movie they were making. The director knew he was making a comic book movie and he gave us one. Treat hams it up, McGoohan is great in a restrained role, the girls are all lush and slightly over the top and Billy Zane has the pretty rich boy swagger nessesary for his role. As the Phantom, he needs little in the way of muscular enhancement since he's pretty damn buff. Everyone involved with the movie looks like they're having fun--a key word for this movie. It's fun to watch and the 100min or so running time fays by. Just don't expect Batman movie moodiness or Batman TV show silliness. This is just a comic book movie. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A fun ride","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Phantom is very arguably a masterpiece. It's one of few movies to actually have camp and use it well. Most films that try this fall flat on their faces and wind up on my top 20 worst films of all time, the Phantom however makes it in my top 75 films of all time. My reasons are this, First, great performances. Billy Zane is the ultimate square jawed hero. Joel Shumacher tried to make Batman this, and we saw the result. Why does it work with the Phantom and not Batman? Batman is a man who dresses darkly, the Phantom wears purple. You don't really get any mixed messages. Treat Williams delivers the best performance of the film as the best tongue in cheek villain I can ever remember. He also makes Drax interesting by adding a little psychopathic tendencies along with his quips. The story itself has all the energy of an Indiana Jones film. Not surprising since it was written by the man who wrote Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. In fact, you could pretty much replace the Phantom with Jones. Another thing worth commenting on is the sets. Whether it's the jungle, the city or a pirates cave the Phantoms sets and scenery are always breathtaking. Rent it, but keep in mind, since the whole film is a mixing of genre's, it's all a matter of taste. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of *****","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Billy Zane might be a sexy guy, But he's a pretty awful Actor he has no charisma whatsoever, which is probably why the film flopped Big time at the Box Office. The film itself is actually very well made and is very enjoyable sort of Indiana Jones-style,with great locations and a realistic 1930's feel - with a different lead Actor probably would have done a lot better.Co-starring original 'Buffy' Kristy Swanson and Straight to video king Treat Williams and lovely Welsh Actress Catherine-Zeta-Jones before he rise to super-stardom.7/10 "},{"Title":"An enjoyable adventure film with some minor flaws","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Today there are numerous kinds of comic book characters. Many are separated into their own groups. Some characters are superheroes and while others are non-superheroes. Out of these two types, it is the non- superheroes who are the most complex and in depth characters to understand. There is a reason to why these mortal individuals do what they do and it almost seems like they have more power than the supernatural individuals. The Phantom is one of these characters.The character of The Phantom was created by the mind of Lee Falk and has the credits to proclaim itself as the first comic book hero. Playing Kit Walker or as his alter ego, The Phantom, is actor Billy Zane. Zane is a good fit for this role. His ability to evade hostile situations is quite peculiar due to the lack of technology of the time. In a sense, he was a super human even though he never had any supernatural powers. Interesting enough, this film comes off as George of the Jungle (1997), but this time, the main character has a college education instead of being raised by gorillas.Co-starring is Zane's love interest, is Kristy Swanson, as Diana Palmer, who looks good just the way she is. Along side her is Catherine Zeta- Jones who plays Sala, an air pirate who has some comical exchanges with Swanson's character over who likes The Phantom more. Playing the main villain is Treat Williams as Xander Drax. Williams' plays Drax with finesse as if he couldn't really decide whether he should be a ruthless man with no conscience or a man who just likes screwing up everyone's day. Not to say he acted bad but there were times where Drax acted more goofy than serious.There are a lot of neat parts that take place in this movie, much of which involves The Phantom. As a moviegoer, it's not often that a chase scene includes a horse. Horses were mans original car. Just listening to the hooves of the animal clop along the ground is much easier on the ears than always listening to the roar of a V8 engine. In addition to The Phantom's horse, Hero, he has a dog, named Devil. Devil, who has a very long tongue, is also a good animal actor. Both Hero, and Devil work together to help their master in the quest for justice. Even cooler is that they can communicate to each other!And that's not all, The Phantom works with other animals too and they're just as loyal. As stated before, he's just a well-educated George of the Jungle. The music was to fun to listen to as well. David Newman provided the soundtrack and it's great how The Phantom was able to get its own theme. I say this because there have been other films in the past that have great ideas but weren't executed right partially due to the franchise not even having a musical theme. Besides what viewers see, how else would they remember a film? By something they listen too obviously! Look at Stars Wars. No one even has to say what it is just by listening to the main theme.Lastly, the action was good too. It is very much enjoyable to see Billy Zane, Swanson and Zeta-Jones swinging swords and firing pistols at various opponents. However, some of these action sequences seemed slowed a little bit too much and too often. There were times where I was waiting for a move to end but it was moving ever so slowly that I thought it would never finish. Also the finale between The Phantom and Drax was weak. I was expecting something a little more than what I saw. But these flaws are so minor that it won't really bother the audience.Although it is not the first comic book adaptation to hit the theaters, it is an adaptation of the first comic book hero and it is done fairly well. There are some parts that may seem out of place, but overall it is a decent adventure film. "},{"Title":"An infectious fun-filled super hero romp filled with adventure!","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Along with several comic-book hero films from the '90s (The Rocketeer, The Shadow) The Phantom was another attempt to make a period piece comic-book film by utilizing a sort of retro cool aesthetic combined with a non-traditional hero in an attempt to create something a bit different and hopefully more inclusive and attractive to an audience of non modern era comic-book fans. Much like those other films the hoped for crossover audience didn't surface as super-hero films still didn't have a large enough fan-base outside of the core built-in audience to stray too far from the more iconic heroes and and the film died a quick death at the box-office. Thankfully the movie has picked up an ever growing cult following on DVD and so it remains in circulation and is easily found.Working off of a script by Jeffrey Boam the movie was originally scheduled to be directed by Joe Dante and lean a bit more heavily into being a parody of a high-adventure serial films. After the scheduled shooting dates were pushed forward Dante left and a long time fan of The Phantom character Simon Wincer took over the project. Simon decided to approach the material a bit more seriously and this results in the lines being delivered with more of a wry wink tone to them that serves the material rather well and works well to keep some of the stereo-typical characters from becoming a bit too heavy-handed.The Phantom is a movie of very high adventure and there are plenty of harrowing escapes and large scale chases to be had. The film is uses the outdoor locations to their fullest and they are both grand and beautiful and a perfect backdrop for the adventure filled world of The Phantom and his adversaries to interact within. Unfortunately some of the indoor sets don't favor as well and the impact and wonderment that earlier scenes evoked are greatly reduced to some cheap-looking sets. The end scene pirate lair in particular looks a bit more like a Disney ride location than a pirate hideout of The Phantom's lifelong enemies.But overall The Phantom is a very fun film and although full of clichéd characters, the actors pull it off with suitable skill and the pervasive positive tone helps to carry the film as it quickly moves from one location to the next. Character development is a bit thin, but the film propels forward at a fairly rapid pace so this doesn't really hinder it much. A sorely overlooked film that delivers a rollicking good adventure that's whose fun is infectious and charming. "},{"Title":"One for the Phantom fans","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What a refreshing change to see a movie based on an established story (comic, book, whatever) that actually caters to existing fans rather than dumbing down the story and filling it with the standard chiches for the general Hollywood audience. This is a movie for fans of the Phantom comic. Billy Zane is spot on as the Ghost Who Walks and the movie plot is largely taken from Lee Falk's earliest stories, including early villains such as the Sing Brotherhood and the Sky Pirates. The Phantom comic was never big in the US which would be a large part of the reason for the movie never being a box office hit (and getting such an undeservedly low rating on here). Sure the makers of the film could have made it a bigger success by following many of the other comic adaptations and ignoring the fans to make a blockbuster. On the one hand I'm glad they didn't do that since it resulted in a film that fans of the comic can see, satisfied that they'll see the phantom they know. On the other hand, it meant that the film will most likely never have a sequel despite how much I'd love to see one. To summarise, if you're a fan of the comic, you probably already have this movie and if you don't you should. If you're not a fan of the comic, well, I still think it's a good films but it's not made so much with you folks in mind. Get familiar with the comics first. "},{"Title":"Nicely entertaining  and clean action hero movie.","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For several years I have had this movie on my mental list as one to see, and last week I ran across the DVD in the bargain bin for under $5US, so I bought it. My wife and I found it to be a very entertaining 90 minutes or so. It reminds me of such entertaining adventure movies as 'Romancing the Stone' and 'Raiders of the Lost Ark', although not quite in the league of the latter one. It starts in 1930s Africa, moves to New York, and ends at a small island in the Pacific.Billy Zane is very well cast as The Phantom/Kit Walker. As the movie begins, we learn that The Phantom has been around since the Pirate days, and is believed to be immortal. The crux of the story centers on three ancient idols, be-jeweled skulls, that if all brought together would give the bearer untold powers. The ruthless Xander Drax (Treat Williams) is out to find all of them. The Phantom must see to it that he does not succeed.Catherine Zeta-Jones, two years before her role in 'The Mask of Zorro', here plays Sala, who seems to be helping the bad guys.SPOILERS. The Phantom is not immortal, the role is passed down from father to son, and the current one is in reality Kit Walker, educated in the USA. Part of his agenda is to find a wife so he can have a son, who will be the next Phantom. In the final climax in the small island we find that the legend was not accurate, there was a 4th skull, and it was on the belt of the Phantom. With it, he repels the energy of the three main skulls, in the hands of Drax, and destroys Drax and ultimately the island as the god guys escape. "},{"Title":"Hey, it's not that bad!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Aside from the purple costume (Which goes back to the comic strip)it's a nice movie.  Not deep, or anything, but well done.  Treat Williams does a great job as an easy-going villian, who has most of the best lines in the movie.  And the scenery is wonderful. "},{"Title":"The Ghost Who Walks...right into video","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another victim to the Shadow Curse.  Kids who have no idea who a character is will not be enthusiastic to see the silver screen version.  Sure, the Phantom was very Raidersesque, and featured pretty fair performances by Zane as Kit Walker and his violet-suited alter ego, and Treat Williams as the over-the-top megalomaniac (with a little Howard Hughes thrown in for effect), but its plot, setting, and time period are just not suited for today's audience.If you see it, and don't get it, then at least stick around for the devastatingly gorgeous Catherine Zeta-Jones as Sala, the bitch with the golden heart.  She's worth the price of admission or the rental fee. "}{"Title":"Entertaining live-action comic book adventure.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Phantom had a budget of $45 million, but only grossed $17 million in the US market.  Although considered a commercial failure, it is nevertheless an enjoyable and entertaining live-action comic book adventure.  The plot revolves around Kit Walker (The Phantom), the hero who rides a white horse and protects the people of his island from villains. In the film The Phantom travels to New York to prevent super villain, Xander Drax, from obtaining 3 magical skulls that will give him the power to rule the world. Although not in the same class as Superman or Batman, fans of super hero movies will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The best superhero adaption ever","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Billy Zane plays the Phantom perfectly. He's not a dark, grim superhero like Batman or a neurotic superhero like Spider-Man. The Phantom loves being a superhero and being the good guy. This is the best adaption of a comic book (cartoon strip) ever captured on film. This is the type of movie meant for children of all ages. If you're looking for a movie with deep meaning, thought provoking dialogue and lots of introspection, what the heck are you doing watching The Phantom? Go see a different movie. If you're looking for entertainment in the vein of pulp fiction heroes from the Golden Age this is the movie for you.  "},{"Title":"Excellent beginning to your Phantom journey","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've been a huge fan of the Phantom from a young age and was excited to finally watch the (unfortunately) only movie this superhero had spawned.The plot is pretty simple, in keeping with the action films of that time- involving three legendary skulls which when combined generate an earth shattering force that can be used for world domination. The villain Xander Drax, an evil multi-millionaire, wants it by any means and the Phantom is the only one who can stop him.The action is non-stop from the first scene and to accommodate so much in the 90 odd minutes of screen-time, the director compromises on describing the origin of the Phantom and the icons associated with him. No mention is made of the mark that the Skull ring leaves when the Phantom punches (we're just given a hint) or the presence of the other ring- the one of protection. Even the name of the Phantom's trusty steed - Hero- is not mentioned, although the horse itself gets a meaty role (not as much as Devil, his pet wolf).Billy Zane portrays the superhero as a smooth talking, elegant crime-fighter- more like a James Bond in a purple tight-suit, with a punch here and a quip there. In that, he is less intense as the Phantom than I would have liked but it sure suits the movie's style- more camp and camaraderie than outright gritty realism. However, the character is shown true to the comic books, in that he's loyal, charming, morally upright, courageous and fights evil unselfishly.The stunts are realistic (he's clearly shown as human and beatable) and true to the Phantom's tradition (The Phantom always shoots to disarm), he does not kill anyone.Just like in the comics, romance is subtle and restricted to just a few kisses and the ladies are just as gorgeous as the Phantom is strong and handsome. And they're not just eye candy- and have good roles.The villains have enough screen-time to be shown as evil and hard to beat.Do not compare this to movies like Nolan's Batman since this was taken in a completely different era and the Phantom himself does not possess as many gadgets as the rich and sophisticated Batman. He relies on his speed, strength, intelligence, and friends to settle matters.My only disappointment is that this could have been a much better movie if the origins had been described so people can distinguish him from other similar superheroes living double lives (most notably Batman). As a film, I'll give it a 6 or 7 but since it is the only film of the Phantom, my loyalty forces me to give it a 10.If this movie piques your curiosity to check out the diverse and exciting world of the Phantom comics, it would have gotten it's due. "},{"Title":"Solid silver screen rendition of a popular comics hero","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've thought The Phantom was one cool comic strip hero since I was a kid. I never felt like I really got enough of the character, and I was delighted when a feature film was made. I wasn't disappointed.The story is exciting, and acting performances are rich. Treat Williams drops charisma and evil. An early look at Catherine Zeta Jones is eye catching, and she gives a solid performance as the leader of an all woman mercenary team.Billy Zane hits a home run as the Phantom. First, he looks good in the suit. That's always a must for a costumed hero film. Second, he gives a confident performance of a heroic character, and delivers his clever humor lines with just the right amount of wry charm. Zane (and/or stunt men) give the character a sense of strength and grace that are demanded to make the Phantom work on screen.The cinematography is beautiful to behold, especially jungle and water scenes. They draw you right into the screen. As a cap off, I also enjoyed the score, and the main theme is catchy, which I also like to have in a comic hero movie. (That was one area where I thought the X-Men movies failed. Nothing memorable at all in the score ... they should have used the theme from the cartoon show. LOL) The movie is a feast for the senses, and for fans of the Comic strip. My only regret was that it did not do well enough at the box office to spawn a string of sequels.We also enjoyed the Phantom serial from the OLD movie days. Of course its campy but its fun and a lot of hours of entertainment for the price "},{"Title":"My 3rd favorite comic book film.!!!! Too bad its poorly received.","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Phantom is my 3rd favorite comic film of all time. (behind Blade 2 and Batman returns of course) Whether you're a fan of the Phantom or Billy Zane you'll like this.As much as I like Billy Zane I'll admit his acting isn't Oscar winning but he gives his best performance in this (as well as Tales from the crypt demon knight). He was THE perfect choice for the phantom he had the looks, voice and one-liners. I don't see whats all the fuss about Bruce Campbell not getting the role.The action scenes could have been a lot better. But they weren't common and predictable fight scenes. Plus Billy Zane isn't coordinated like Van Damme so give the man his props.The setting takes place in a 1930's jungle as well as New York and thats pretty rare. I'm a fan of the Substitute sequels so I hated seeing Treat Williams as the bad guy but he did a good job, definitely not his best work though. What also sucks is how Catherine Zeta Jones turned good around the end for no good reason. I wanted so bad for her to get laid out. A subplot that hardly gets noticed is how the previous Phantom was killed by one of the henchmen. You'll hear that throughout the movie (by James Remar) and it adds to the tension.Naturally this film seems reality based but there are a couple supernatural elements thrown in the mix like the power of the skulls. That doesn't ruin it or anything, after all this is based on a comic book. If you want to see a bunch of characterization and emotional stuff, this is the WRONNNGG film. I'm glad this movie went light on the drama, thats the problem with all these new comic films coming out.The Phantom is a rare crime fighter; he has no superpowers. What he does is his legacy passed from father to son. He has a horse and a wolf as sidekicks. Rather than fight crime in the big city like most he does his thing in the jungle. So this is a film anyone can enjoy, and although it maintains interest without taking itself too serious. Its a shame this movie is so under-appreciated. Sadly I heard they're remaking The Phantom, then again theses days what isn't being remade? "},{"Title":"Not bad at all...","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Phantom, together with movies like The Rocketeer, is one of those films that has to be seen through the eyes of a child. Not with those eyes of an adult. The only purpose of this movie is to give the viewer 2 hours of entertainment, fun and escapism! Nothing more, nothing less! So the Phantom is an excellent example in this department with great nature scenes, breathtaking production values and a great story! If you watch this movie with your entire family you will spend a great afternoon or evening! Just like its origin the comic-book the movie is candy for the eye! Enjoy the moment and forget about it until the next time! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"The Phantom is Phantabulous!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Was taking the family out to see another movie which ended up being sold out, and settled for The Phantom as an alternate! WOW!! We were TOTALLY SURPRISED, and Totally Satisfied...made us forget what we originally went to the theater to see! We liked everything about this movie!! It's a family thriller that IS movie-making the way it was meant to be! It made the comic-strip come to life! The scenery is beautiful, and the cast was great! We were wishing they would develop a TV series based on this movie...that would be soooo much fun! We are big fans of the Young Indiana Jones Chronicles TV series, and was VERY disappointed when it got canceled!(Thankfully they released some of those on video...we have them all!) A Phantom TV series would also have rated at the Top with us! We own The Phantom on video, and have nearly worn it out! It's great family entertainment...and as we say down here in Houston, Texas....PHANTABULOUS! "},{"Title":"A GREAT FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT!!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Something for everyone here.  Kids from 6-60 will get a kick out of the fantasy situations, real THRILLS, and good story.   What I enjoyed( so very much)  was the breathtakingly beautiful scenery.  This film is a true escape. Some may remember the old radio serial The Phantom--and the comic book too (you'd have to be a senior) and the movie runs true to form. NOT a single boring moment!! Billy Zane is really a hunk and very believable as the Phantom. A surprise was finding Catherine Zita Jones as the evil-doer--- she was terrific in that role.  There is nothing-- NOT to enjoy in this fun film.  It has every element to qualify it as a well rounded action adventure the entire family can get into!! "},{"Title":"A spandex super hero with a twist","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The phantom isn't supposed to be a good movie, yes i agree with that. But i liked it because its different. Usualy most spandex super heroes have a special power, like crawling on walls, flying, shooting lasers from their hands, etc... The Phantom strays away from those ideas. While he does use his fists and legs to fight, he also uses handguns! Thats something you don't see very often in these kind of characters. The costume was what I expected, but at least he didn't wear his underwear on the outside. The phantom is also not the hero who can defeat all the thugs effortlessly. He's very human in fact, and isn't as high tech as Batman. Thats what I like about the Phantom, he's different. In conclusion The Phantom is an ok movie, but the character is very unique and i liked the idea. Watch the cartoon; the art is also unique and the stories are very mature for a cartoon. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Billy Zane is right-on as the lead in this movie.  Everyone seemed to have a good time making this flick and I had a good time watching it. It is not an Indiana Jones rip-off and it is not at all cheesy.  Yes, it's a little hard to look at a man in a tight purple outfit and not want to chuckle, but it's all based on a comic book . . .Great stuff.  Much more entertaining than The Shadow.  "}{"Title":"Hoakie, but fun!!!","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I agree with some people when they say that this movie was some what cheezy, but i sure did enjoy it.  i felt that billy zane was an awesome choice for the role and i wish he would recieve better role than what he has done today.  The action was cheap, but like i said it was harmless fun. i didn't expect much from this one when i watched and i don't think you should either, but it was fun to watch. "},{"Title":"An adventure.","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now come on. You can't expect Oscar quality from a twenties comic book turned movie. But it was a fantastic adventure. How often are movies like that made? Indiana Jones...off the top of my head I can't think of any others much like that. The Phantom tried though, and it was good. It was an adventure, packed with action and romance. Just ignore the purple tights. It's what made Kit Walker 'different' as a comic book super hero. Besides, Billy Zane can totally pull it off with his body! "},{"Title":"Worth watching!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a fan of the comic strip, I had very high hopes for this movie. And although the movie doesn't follow the comic to the letter, it is however close enough to please most fans. It's a fun-filled adventure for the whole family. Too bad it didn't get much attention in the States, both the comic strip and the movie deserves to be noticed. The actors do a good job, with Catherine Zeta-Jones leaving the biggest impression. "},{"Title":"Very Nice Adventure Movie!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This adventure film is quite underated in my opinion.The Phantom(Billy Zane) Was Found in Bengalia and wants revenge on an Evil Pirate(Played With relish by Cary Hiroyuki Tagawa) as well as trying to stop a madman (Treat Williams) Plus Romancing Good Girl Kristy Swanson and Bad girl Catherine Zeta Jones. The Plot is the usual for adventure Movies and Catherine Zeta Jones,Billy Zane, Cary Hiroyuki Tagawa and James Remar all play their parts well, However Williams isn't great as the villain and Swanson is Wooden.I Recommend this to anyone who would like a smashing adventure movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!!","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie, although vaguely reminiscent of the Batman movies and the Indiana Jones films, the nonstop action and well woven love story is endearing.  Billy Zane has great chemistry in this movie as the 21st Phantom.  The skintight purple suit could catch anyone's eye as he races through the movie rescuing damsels in distress. "},{"Title":"Fun and skillful film adaptation of 1936 comicstrip classic.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a wonderfully fun and engaging adaptation of the classic pulp character.  It never makes a mistep.  It treats the material seriously and with love and respect. It never gets campy, unlike the 1960's Batman TV series.  It's like Indiana Jones, but without imitating it.  Indiana Jones was based on characters like the Phantom.  The Phantom is the real deal. Billy Zane is everything you could ask for from a romantic hero.  He brings the character convincingly to life.  Everything about this version of the Phantom is heroic.  And all the old favorites have come along, especially Hero, The Phantom's white stallion, and Devil, the mountain wolf he raised from a pup.  If you want romantic adventure, you can't do better than this. "},{"Title":"The comic strip brought to life!","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I Don't understand people bashing this movie! They probably don't like movies made in the 30's or 40's because this movie is dead-on its period! It has the charm, the innocence, the fun of a bygone era! It's got the drive of an old serial combined with today's most beautiful cinematography. Everything is possible for the Phantom, like jumping down from a biplane on a horse, hanging on to a plane for hours and so on, yet he his just a normal human being with no super powers! I find no problem believing in those characters, or maybe I should say that I have no problem to suspend my disbelief. For sarcastic moviegoers of today, I suppose this means the movie is bad, cheesy or childish. I just think it's swell! "},{"Title":"Excellent film! Zane, Williams, Remar and Tagawa (four of My all-time favorites!) all have great performances! Bring on the sequel!","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Phantom is a very good film that has an incredible cast including Billy Zane, Kristy Swanson, Treat Williams, Catherine Zeta-Jones, James Remar, Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, Bill Smitrovich, Casey Siemaszko, John Capodice, David Proval, Joseph Ragno, Samantha Eggar, Jon Tenney, Patrick McGoohan, Robert Coleby, Bernard Kates, Al Ruscio, and Leon Russom! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Zane is really excellent in this film. I thought that he performed good. Williams, Remar, Tagawa, and Zeta Jones all have terrific villain roles! The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is great by David Newman. Great directing by Simon Wincer! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Billy Zane, Kristy Swanson, Treat Williams, Catherine Zeta-Jones, James Remar, Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, Bill Smitrovich, Casey Siemaszko, John Capodice, Samantha Eggar, Patrick McGoohan, Robert Coleby, the rest of the cast in the film, Action, Adventure, Thrillers, Comedy, Dramas, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! Movie Nuttball's NOTE I noticed this is the third time that Billy Zane and Casey Siemaszko has been in the same movie together. The other two films are Back to the Future and Back to the Future Part II! Zane was Match and Casey was 3-D! They were pals in the BTTF films and now their enemies in the Phantom! Weird! "},{"Title":"Wow! Deserves a second look","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this on cable the other day and was amazed at how good it was. The way it captured an earlier time in our country so seamlessly, the tightness of the whole production, the attractive leads, the interesting, exciting feel of it all.  It felt like this is what all those comic book movies and remakes of old films are after, but so few achieve.  It even had me thinking Billy Zane would have made a great Indiana Jones, maybe even better than Ford himself.  Everybody, see The Phantom again, and experience the pleasure. "},{"Title":"A Happy, Campy, Romantic Comedy, Action Story - Great!","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My wife and I were thoroughly entertained by this film. We especially enjoyed the artistic license each actor applied to his/her character. They all had a sparkle in their eye that allowed us to share in the obvious good time they were having while making the picture. And to add to the fun was some of the most beautiful location scenery I have seen in a film.The story is about comic book characters. It was intended to entertain and we believe it did so throughout the whole story.  Of course, we noticed the gaps in continuity, holes in the plot and story line and even in just common sense. But they did not spoil anything for us. We felt drawn into the story - as though we were with the hero and heroine (and the others) and waited with eager anticipation to see what would come next.  We are a long way from our childhood. But we both felt younger for having seen it.I have not ever read the comic strip so I was not familiar with the storyline.  But the film gave us enough of it here and there so we easily inderstood it.  We accidentally discovered the movie, while trying to find something we could watch (not too violent, bloody, etc.).  Happily we chose to watch it.  We would recommend it to our friends.  We can't wait to see it again. "}{"Title":"The Ghost Who Walks...and Slams Evil","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised to enjoy this as much as I did. For a much-maligned commercial and critical failure, The Phantom is actually a decent movie. It attempts to be a fun adventure movie in the vein of the old serials, much like the Indiana Jones films. It doesn't always work but when it does it's quite entertaining. Billy Zane plays a solid action hero. The script does him few favors but he makes the most of it. Treat Williams is gloriously hammy as the evil Xander Drax. Catherine Zeta-Jones is great fun as bad girl Sala. Kristy Swanson is probably the weakest link, giving a rather bland performance. Once again, though, the script is doing her no favors. The Phantom is an OK film to watch on a lazy afternoon when you want a lightweight adventure story without much depth. Go into it expecting that and you should be satisfied. "},{"Title":"A fun and enjoyable superhero ride if you expect some flaws","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Before I begin this review, I have to say that I wasn't a fan of the Phantom comic books at the time, but at least this movie caught my very interest when I watched it. Later, after my first viewing, I felt that my jaw just dropped because I can't believe that I just watched a completely underrated superhero movie next to The Rocketeer which I thought was a fun and excellent film.But the reason why I'm giving this an 8/10 is because it has some flaws. The story does have the spirit and tone of the comics in which I've heard and it has a style of Indiana Jones which works perfectly, but it suffers from a cookie-cutter plot about the Skulls of Touganda, the final battle between The Phantom and Drax was a disappointment and the romance scenes between Kit Walker and Diana would've been developed.But, with that said, everything else works in this movie. The acting is fabulous. Billy Zane, who would later play Cale Hockley in James Cameron's Titanic, did a great job as the title role and handled the character's traits perfectly. Treat Williams did a fine job hamming his role as the villain by being funny rather than serious, Kristy Swanson did great as the lovely Diana and Catherine Zeta Jones, the most hottest actress in cinema history, did great as the ally for Drax. The directing from Simon Wincer (who directed Free Willy) is pretty decent and the cinematography and landscapes are the epitome of magnificence. The strongest aspects goes to the amazingly intense action sequences and David Newman's adequately amazing music score and I liked how the title character gets it's own theme song like most movie franchises have.Overall, The Phantom isn't a great movie, but it's a comic book superhero movie that works brilliant in an Indiana Jones-esque style and it's worth watching. That's all I have to say. It is *that* good! "},{"Title":"Why the Phantom is the best hero of all....","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK yes a nine is high, but I'm judging it against all other hero movies of the time. Compared to modern movies like Avengers, the Batman reboots etc Id give it maybe a 6 or 7 mainly for the comparative lack of big budget action and effects only. Story wise, this film still kills them imo.Action wise and feel this movie has the globetrotting and backdrops and mystique that make it fit in nicely alongside Indie, Tomb Raider, the Mummy franchise; whilst retaining that roots-comic book feel captured so well in the 90s Batman The Animated Series, and The Shadow... Just look for the scene where Zane, in his coat and hat, steals a skull and jumps through a window holding it in his hand, staring at it before looking up, the dynamism and cinematography is lifted right from the pages of a comic. You've got rickety collapsing bridges, heroines, sexy villain girls, planes, gunfights, pirates, gangsters, daring stunts, secret islands, magic weapons of mass destruction, Billy Zane just being his usual coolest man alive self... yes it's at times cheesy, yes its cornball but its a movie based on a hero who wears a purple skintight babygrow, how else are you gonna make it? It has to be. You gotta suspend disbelief and enjoy it for what it is, a comic book movie. You can't watch Superman and criticise it by saying the guy defied the laws of gravity! That's rubbish.This film gets some things pretty bad, a few of the effects, notably at the end, are pretty low budget, the sets are obviously sets, fight choreography is a little laughable... however in many ways this all adds to its charm, and character. The cast are superb, from Cary as the pirate leader, James Remar as the menacing yet cool goon, to Treat Williams' superbly charismatic yet evil badguy, and the tough-to-tell-who-is-more-beautiful Kristy Swanson and Catherine Zeta-Jones. To cap it off Billy Zane is there as the lead, I don't know what else to say here... who else can pull of wearing the Phantom's suit and still look manly other than Billy Zane, the coolest man in movies? I am straight as an arrow, loooove women... and I would even have sex with Billy Zane, and the thing is... he is just so damn cool and manly that somehow - magically - it would still be totally heterosexual because the guy is just that epic and exudes pure distilled awesomeness. I could be at a bar after and tell my guy mates, hey... just had sex with a guy, it was Billy Zane and they'd all be like oh... fair play, thats cool. No homophobia or judgement or loss of masculinity at all, just because its Billy Zane. In short, he wears a purple catsuit, and he is cool as hell still....now, people will judge this... they will say the film is lame, cheesy etc, that the Phantom is rubbish and base this all purely on the subject matter more than anything else, i.e. how he looks, why he uses guns but doesn't kill etc... things the film can't help because it's the character itself and story that dictates it... they are on dangerous ground here. Consider Superman, consider the Batman films, consider Spiderman... all these are perhaps the top three recognisable heroes of all time... all of their films suffered the same major problem which irritated fans... what I call the girlfriend issue.The girlfriend issue with heroes ruined major story arcs in comics and sunk movies alike. The first Superman film was cool until Lois Lane hijacked it and there was that major boring flying scene with crappy music, and she nerfed up the second film because he threw his powers away for her resulting in all that following drama... Batman is just as bad with his string of non-girlfriends because his mission is all that matters, making people wonder is Robin more than just a friend? ... Spiderman...? should i be Spidey or should I be with MJ?... why can't I have happiness who didn't hate Tobey Maguire after that sappy dream sequence with uncle Ben??? This whole you can't be a hero and have a loved one nonsense is what ruins movies with boring drama filler when you just want action, and here is where the Phantom literally stands up and pees all over all other superhero movies combined, and why the Phantom is the coolest damn hero of all time; (look away if you don't want a tiny spoiler now)...The Phantom, unlike Batman, Spidey, Supes etc... any hero for that matter; and even James Bond who is kinda heroic and suave as hell with the ladies.... the Pantom, basically says to hell with all that overly-righteous self-denial hero-celibacy BS, and instead- like a don- gets both the good AND the bad girl at the end. So you have tons of action, around the world heroics, true to the cheesiness classic comic-booky adventure, a phenomenal, lovable cast, and a hero that doesn't give a damn about convention, because he can land a hot blonde damsel and a vampish bad-girl even whilst wearing a purple bodystocking... lets see Christian Bale try to do that whilst chatting up the ladies in his I'm on the toilet straining hard voice, he'll need a pretty awesome gadget to pull that trick off... no? not taking that bet? ...didn't think so.Bottom line, Phantom is the nuts, you just gotta learn how to judge it properly and respect it's merits. Watch it, be a big kid, and let yourself enjoy it for what it's meant to be, a good old fashioned classic campy but cool adventure. "},{"Title":"Fantastic and fun movie","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, first of all I have to state that I've never read the Phantom before - this movie introduced me to that character. So, if this movie doesn't somehow stick to Lee Falk's Phantom comics, I apologize. However, as movies go, this movie is written and is filmed like a movie from the time period it tried to mimic - the late 1930's/1940's. It has a great storyline and fantastic characters. It's one of the few movies that my kids and I can watch over and over again - it's just that good. I'm not sure why this movie has such a so-so review rating. In any event, give it a try and enjoy. It has everything a good movie needs - a realistic and believable hero, a great story-line and overall objective. A fantastic protagonist who is always trying to thwart our here, the Phantom. Plus, a movie that covers New York and the Jungles of Northeaster India. It's just a fantastic adventure movie. "},{"Title":"The hero of Bengalla fights a New York industrialist for possession of the mystical Skulls of Touganda.","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Phantom is a super-hero from the golden age of American comics, and the story line is set appropriately in 1938/39. Billy Zane, as the latest of a long line of Phantoms (hence the hero's title, Ghost Who Walks) does justice to the title role. Direction is crisp, the Southeast Asian cinematography is beautiful, and the supporting cast is excellent -- except for Treat Williams, who bombastically overplays the chief villain, Xander Drax. Great villains exhibit some aspect about their character which strikes an emotional chord with the audience. William's Drax is just very annoying, like the co-worker you desperately wish would go away -- permanently. So if you can somehow get past this problem, you will discover a very enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"High-spirited, energetic fun.","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'The Phantom' is a film so filled with good cheer and infectious energy that I couldn't bring myself to dislike it. There's other stuff that makes the movie worth seeing, of course, but I had a huge, genuine grin throughout most of the movie.After an opening prologue (itself proceeded by a For Those Who Came In Late card that made me smile) detailing the origins of the purple-clad justice seeker known as the Phantom (Billy Zane), the movie runs right out of the starting gate and never looks back. It has skulls, skeletons, dark caves, a loyal horse and wolf pair, biplanes, Pan Am clippers, ancient skulls of power, Chinese pirates, and a neat little mini-sub. The plot is nonsense, of course, but the lightning-fast pace makes up for that.Billy Zane makes a good Phantom, allowing himself to have a sense of humor about things, and his cheerful demeanor is a nice break from angsty heroes like Batman or the X-Men. Kristy Swanson pretty much defines spunk as the sidekick/love interest; she gets kidnapped a lot, sure, but she's not a helpless damsel, and gets in on the action quite a bit. Treat Williams enjoys himself more than just about anyone I've ever seen as the villain Xander Drax, hamming it up with glorious abandon in the tradition of the best comic book bad guys. James Remar is solid as Drax's main thug, and Catherine Zeta Jones is cool as a bad girl who changes sides later in the movie. I also got a huge kick out of the appearance of Cary Hiroyuki-Tagawa as a Chinese pirate warlord late in the film, who immediately proceeds to have a scenery-chewing contest with Williams.While it's too bad Joe 'Gremlins' Dante didn't get to direct this, Simon Wincer (Free Willy, Lonesome Dove) does an admirable job, filling the screen with great-looking sets and fun action scenes. He also manages to make a purple bodysuit not look utterly stupid, which is a remarkable achievement. The script by Jeffrey Boam (Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Innerspace) is tongue-in-cheek without being campy, and Williams and Tagawa get many of the best lines.'The Phantom' is not a great movie, but it will certainly entertain those who love old 30's serials and comic books. It's just a darn good time. "},{"Title":"A faithful translation of Lee Falk's Comic Strip Superhero to the Screen","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Simon Wincer's fast paced direction, the art department and costumer's dedication to capturing the look of the newspaper comic strip and Billy Zane, in one of his best roles ever, easily sell this finely tuned blend of action and humor, with a romantic subplot that never becomes saccharine or cloying. Right away it is easily possible to see that Diana Palmer is no wimpy heroine waiting to be saved, but the Phantom's equal in adventure. The addition of Patrick McGoohan as the ghost of the Ghost who Walks' father is just icing on the cake. Put all together it is a fine mixture of adventure, mystery, a bit of the supernatural and the good guys are there to save the day. I'll give this one a 9 out of 10. Loved the look of skull cave and the Bangalla Jungle. "},{"Title":"nice adaptation from the comic books!","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie the Phantom really made me very happy - it put me right back 40-50 years, until the days as a kid, when I used to read about Dragos/Phantom out there in the jungle. In those days we didn´t even have TV, and visits to the cinema were scarce as well. So much of our imagination was fired from comic magazines - as well as silly remarks like HOW did Dragos go to the toilet in his  tights? I don´t a bit mind seeing a man in purple tights and a mask! He´s a hero, a mystic man from the jungle, always looking out for the weak and innocent. I think the actors did very well, and the story was OK too. There was quite a bit of humor, and lots of action - besides, I did enjoy the way the filmmakers had tried to keep the feeling of strips on to the movie.I gave it seven out of ten - most for good old days. "},{"Title":"clever,campy,exciting","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i liked this movie a lot.it kinda reminded me of a low cal version of Indian Jones and even that 1980s TV show Tales of the Gold Monkey.you can't beat it for action and excitement.plus,there's plenty of humour,and some great one liners.it can be a bit campy and over the top but that's part of its charm.Billy Zane is perfectly cast in the title role.there are some really memorable characters here.the villains are certainly interesting.this is not a movie that will change your life or anything but it should certainly entertain you on a day when you just want to sit back relax and turn your brain off for awhile.for me,The Phantom is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Nitpickers need not watch this one--instead watch Citizen Kane.","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For all of those who nitpick like crazy--I suggest you watch Citizen Kane or one of those boring foreign artsy fartsy movies. This movie is not intended for you. This movie is intended for those of us who want to watch a fun, action filled, gee-whiz movie. It is for those of us WHO want to suspend our Disbelief and forget about the Real World.Yeah, the movie has some corny lines, and scenes, and improbable situations. This was not intended to be a Cineme Realite film to be dissected and critiqued. If you can't watch a movie for its entertainment value.....don't bother with this one. It is not for movie snobs. It is a movie for us average Joes who simply want to be entertained. And it succeeds at that. "}{"Title":"it's a tribute!","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i have believed this always to be a tribute to those old time adventure serial movies... i mean people take this movie so seriously, you guys need to calm down. it's a fun flick with a guy in purple spandex! stop them. your the only one who can... "},{"Title":"Kristy Swanson,Catherine-Zeta Jones ENOUGH SAID!!!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK this movie is kinda farfetched but who cares? It a remake from a comic book. Tell me one movie made from a comic book that ever won the oscar for best picture. Just take it for what it really is. Fun entertainment. Don't make it to be more than it is if you just turn your brain off and go with it you will find The Phantom to be a rather good movie. To quote Dennis Miller Thats just my opinion, I could be wrong "},{"Title":"The greatest comic hero ever!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Phantom is my favorite comic hero! The movie is quite good. You get action and adventure! Good actors! Great music score! Looks good on my TV!I give it 8 out of 10!(The Scandinavian comic version and the three original American artists led by Lee Falk, gets a 10+!)  "},{"Title":"Fun Old Fashion Adventure Flick","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a kid, I remember calling the Phantom as Robin, because his mask is similar to Batman's sidekick; of course its not Robin, but its hard to believe that the mask is similar to Robin's. If you agree with me or not. With that said, I grew up watching this movie on an old VHS and really did had fun with it. This was before I started watching the Indiana Jones movies, because this movie is like watching one of the Saturday Matinée Serials. The character of the Phantom does have some similarities to Batman like having someone taking care of their wounds as well as having a cave as their hideout. The movie itself is based on the comic strip by Lee Falk, which I have not read any of them nor having that much of knowledge to it but I am curious to learn more about the Phantom. So does the movie hold up? Well here are my thoughts The movie is about an immortal crime fighter, where he is being called The Ghost Who Walks because whenever they think he's dead he always comes back; the Phantom is also dealing with enemies as they get their hands of the Skulls of Touganda as they posses enough power that can cause destruction. It is up to the Phantom stop the bad guys before its too late. After watching this movie as a kid, I'm an adult now as I'm now looking back it, the movie really does hold up. I don't mean its a masterpiece, but it is a fun old fashion adventure flick. I don't know why this movie failed at the box-office, which it may have been that no one has ever heard of either the comic strips, a hero wearing a purple outfit that turns people off or the movie itself was badly marketed. Also, receiving a 4.9 on this website is really low, even a forty-two percent rotten on Rotten Tomatoes which I don't think its as bad as what everyone is making it out to be. I know the late Roger Ebert likes this movie, and I do find it really cool that he really likes it. By the way, I miss him too. Anyway, it is one or the other on why this movie failed at the box-office. In my opinion, I thought the story is just as simplistic as it is while the acting is well done. Billy Zane does a great job in the role for embodied the character as well as his charms, and his coolness which it kind of makes him the Clark Gable type. Treat Williams' performance is over the top, but he is fun to watch. Kristy Swanson does a good job, but nothing amazing to run home about. Her character sometimes is a damsel in distress, and she can be feisty too as she joins in the fight. Catherine Zeta-Jones is in this movie too, and she is great to look at before she would go on to do The Mask of Zorro. I really do like the music that David Newman created, and I thought the theme for The Phantom is pretty memorable. I do like the look of the thirties like the look of New York, which it does make a great looking movie as the movie is suppose to be like the comic strips. I don't have a big deal with the Phantom's purple costume, which I wouldn't be surprise if I was the only one that can take this seriously than anyone that issues with the costume. The movie does take notes like the Indiana Jones movies, where you do have some nice physical stunt work as the action scenes. Sure the action may be like any other action adventure movies, but at the same time I had fun with it. There isn't that many CGI in this movie, which that is a big plus for this movie. I think the only thing that is CG is where the lasers come out of the Phantom's ring, and the Skulls of Touganda that Drax used at the movie's final act. I'm not sure about the Skulls that came out of the briefcase if its either CG or practical, but I thought the movie does have good effects for the most part. The movie is very well paced, and I never find any parts that bored me to death. Simon Wincer, to make a long story short, does a fine job directing the movie. Any problems? Yes. While I do enjoy the action in this movie, sometimes there are parts that are not fast enough in order to make it more exciting. Also, while the effects are good, the movie does feature some bad blue or green screen effects like where the Phantom and Diana Palmer are riding on an airplane. Lastly, I do wish if the movie could have some more character development. I read that Simon Wincer had cut out the romance parts in order to make the movie more fast-paced. So I guess that could be one of the reasons why there is not much characterization in this movie. I don't have this movie on DVD or Blu-Ray, but I would like to get one if it has any features which sadly it does not, thanks to Lionsgate or Paramount for getting the treatment that this movie deserve. Maybe Shout Factory should pick this up to give this movie some special features because we are in the year 2016, and it has been twenty years since this movie first came out. I'm calling for a twentieth anniversary special edition release. In conclusion, The Phantom may have its flaws, but I don't think it as bad as everyone makes it out to be. I had fun watching this movie, and I am giving it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Campy, sure, but still entertaining...","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" While The Phantom is not the brightest moment in cinema history, it is still better than the 2009 attempt to reinvent the character and bring it up-to-date. The whole concept of the phantom is campy and worked well enough in comic book format but didn't translate all that well in transition to the screen.For a 1996 action hero movie, then The Phantom is entertaining for what it is, a campy attempt at bringing an equally campy comic book hero to life on the screen. Now, I have never been much fan of Billy Zane, but he actually did a good job in this movie. The cast list is adequate, taking into consideration the premises of the movie.The story is about a jungle legend of the ghost that walks; a lineage of a vigilante family who fights evil in all its forms. And with Xander Drax planning on hoarding the power of ancient Bengalian artifacts, the phantom must rise yet again.Don't expect any award winning material from The Phantom. You know what you will get here with this type of movie when you sit down to watch it, it is straight to the point. "},{"Title":"Not Bad Action/Adventure!","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Billy Zane, Kristy Swanson, Catherine Zeta-Jones and Treat Williams star in this 1996 action/adventure based on the comic book. This takes place in 1939 and Zane (Titanic) plays Kit Walker, a mild-mannered man who masquerades as hero, The Phantom aka The Ghost who Walks following in his ancestors footsteps. He makes his way from the Bengala jungle to New York City where he tries to stop corrupt businessman, Xander Drax (Williams) from finding 3 powerful skulls that will make him unstoppable. Swanson (Buffy The Vampire Slayer) plays Diana Palmer, Kit's college friend & love-interest and Jones (The Haunting) plays Sala, a woman who works for Drax, but eventually becomes an ally to Kit and Diana. James Remar, Patrick McGoohan, David Proval and Casey Siemaszko also appear. This isn't bad, Zane is OK as the lead and the film sort of has an Indiana Jones vibe to it. I still recommend this. "},{"Title":"Happy to see the great hero on a movie once more","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am happy to see The Phantom The Ghost Who Walks with a new story on theaters. The Phantom movie uses the great advantage of the comics book for attracting people to the cinema halls. At least for me, I had used the first chance to buy a ticket and watch the movie. I had even later bought the CDs after watching the movie and now keeping all media at home among the loved ones. On the other hand, impressing the addicted readers of the all story with a new add to the original comics is a great challenging task. I am not sure if the cast and the story could get a good critics if the approach is the quality of the movie. But finally, those readers are always happy to see their hero on the cinema. Even we are waiting for new episodes or new movies of The Phantom. For who came late, they had an entry to the epic history of The Phantom family. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie, Shame on You if You Hate IT!","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Phantom is one of those classic heroes that star maybe fading. Back in the 90's he was fondly remembered for the 80's cartoon, Defenders of the Universe and the Phantom cartoon in the 90's, which was excellent.The movie cam out and was a bust and I cannot figure it out.My take is, back in the 90's, heroes were not cool, so many 90's kids would much rather see XYZ and ignore hero films...indeed the 90's were dark times.....comics were dying.So many ignored the Phantom and it seemed movies like it such as the Shadow and Rocketeer. Since many did not read comics, and the Phantom's fame was really in the 50's, it was hard to be successful.Billy Zane took the mantle and played the Phantom aka Kit Walker. He was the Phantom and played it well. The plot was very good, but like Superman, people hate goody2Shoes heroes. But the Phantom is a movie to catch if you are in need of a hero to save you from modern movie making.The stunts were real and CGI is nonexistent.Phantom gets a 10 from me. Ignore the ignos here, MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"Unmistakably terrible","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie knows it is awful, and it doesn't even have the good sense to poke fun at itself. A nod or a wink to let you know that the people who made it are aware of what they're making. The dialog plays out like a conversation between three pre-teens. The action is similarly brainless. Hint Horses can't run faster than airplanes, and loose nets that drop from the ceiling aren't really effective traps. I don't think I heard a convincing spoken word or saw a convincing action sequence during the whole movie.It's so entirely terrible, that I kind of want to charge HBO rent for letting it play on my TV. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance - it has a lot to enjoy","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" At the time of its release The Phantom had a lot going against it. The recent renewed interest in superhero movies had not yet begun. The only such movies that had enjoyed any success by 1996 were the original Superman and the Tim Burton Batman series. Fact is, unless you were a complete comics nerd nobody had really heard of any other characters. Add to that the fact that the Phantom was not particularly well known outside of the USA where it did not begin life as either a Marvel OR a DC comic and you realise how brave it was to make this movie without any A-list actors in it either. Fact is, I enjoyed this at the time of its release because it successfully achieved the feat of telling a classic comic yarn without requiring any particular special effects. It is completely story driven. The script isn't a work of genius but there is a lot to enjoy. It doesn't spoon-feed you the story or bore you with an 'origin' story - a quick 2 minute recap is given and then its on with the story. This won't please everybody - but if you can get around the faults with mid-nineties film-making in general, and that comics place other values way above realism, then you might enjoy this even now. I recently re-watched this after it appeared on Netflix and I stand by my original opinions after nearly 20 years! "}{"Title":"Australia's Lost Superhero.","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Phantom (1996) Dir Simon Wincer / Cast Billy Zane, Kristy Swanson, Treat Williams, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Patrick McGoohan Biggest selling comic book in Australia but not quite so successful here in North America where his purple disguise must compete with Barney and his I Love You song. He is a hero that isn't always seen but his impact is quite visible. He lives in the jungle with native friends. Plot regards the search for three priceless skulls that can give power over mankind. This sort of plot contraption is getting too old. Directed by Simon Wincer who handles the action with skill with stunning visual elements. This is quite a departure from his previous film Free Willy. Billy Zane is donning a costume with no personality to go with it. Treat Williams plays the villain as a prop with some sort of brilliant world domination plan that will leave him as an idiot as it did numerous other villains. Kristy Swanson serves only as a possible sex toy for our purple clad hero. Catherine Zeta-Jones is featured as a villainous who will switch sides because she is hot and looks great in black leather, thus rendering applause from young male viewers. Patrick McGoohan plays the Phantum's father, which should indicate how brief his appearance is. The film does little more than showcase a blown budget and a hero who should quit and take up performing at birthday parties. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Fun, relaxing, no brain","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Compared to other (super) hero movies, it is not too bad. Worth seeing, but hardly for watching 2'nd or 3'th time. I enjoyed reading the Phantom comic as kid/teenager. However, when you make a movie, there is always a danger to how the stunts and acting is done, that is not part of the comic.The dress was top, mask, etc - it looked like a part of the man, which it should after so many years and generations. The wolf and cave was also OK.The reason I do not give more than 5, was that the acting from all was the typical stiff and brain damaged hero stuff, where there is a lot of work for little effort.One scene almost made me stop watching, where the girl is rescued from a flight to a horse. From flight to horse is OK, but the whole exercises was pointless as the Phantom could have disabled the bad guys in the first place. No, there had to be a rescue, and either the horse was faster then a flight, or the flight somehow flew slower than possible.The other part was the typical bad guy no brain, hero acting no brain. Just once I would like to see a movie where people do not only act heroism but also think first.And yes, the streets, the cars, everything was so beautiful and clean - I guess it is impossible to make a movies with old cars, without they come from a museum in mint condition ? Lots of actors with only little roles. Just bad guys fighting the good people for a very long sequence.Good the fighting with swords. Often in film they do very bad, but here not that bad.So.. enjoyable, but hardly a film worth a second glance. "},{"Title":"Good clean pulp","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Phantom is even less talked-about than The Rocketeer, which is a shame because it hits its marks pretty well. And as a comic book/strip movie that came out before that genre was its own industry, its old-fashioned adventure leaning is a breath of fresh mountain air. When the movie's concentrated on The Devil's Vortex (its energy does tend to flag during the New York scenes), it's a good bit of fun. This thing's got artifacts, exotic lands, jungle mysticism, cool stunts, skull caves, gorgeous women, pirates(!); and I do say that if you can get Patrick McGoohan onboard with a silly superhero movie, there's something good here. And there certainly is. This movie's got it where it counts in the entertainment department.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Phantom","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you cross Indiana Jones with Tarzan and mix in some 'Goonies' type pirate tomfoolery then you pretty much have this fun cheesy boys own adventure. Actually if I think about it some more you could also throw in some camp Batman and Robin from the classic 60's series in certain sequences, it does get a little bit too hammy in places I must say hehe.Like Batman the Phantom has no super powers, he merely relies on his strength, intelligence and the fact people think he's an immortal ghost...oh and he lives in a cave. So basically he is Batman but with less cash to have hi-tech...and minus Robin for a couple of wild animals he trained.Of course it is suppose to be almost a pantomime type flick with lots of silly lines and caddish villains, but it is a touch too childish for me in places, where as other pulp comicbook character adaptations like 'The Shadow' are a bit more serious. The Phantom's world is a pretty looking universe I must say, the jungle lair, 30's New York and the museum set where one of the skulls is kept, are all really well created. They have that lovely thick structured wooden stylish design with that nice dark noirish colour range (much like 'The Shadow').The story of this character is just as cheesy as his attire. A boy (400 years in the past) witnesses the murder of his father by some pirates who attack their ship. The boy is washed ashore and gets looked after by some tribes folk. They give him the Skull Ring for some reason and because of this he decides to dedicate his life to stopping naughty people...by becoming the masked avenger The Phantom. This role is passed down from father to son over generations (along with the Skull Ring) and leads to the rumour that the Phantom is an immortal crime fighter (everyone thinks all these Phantoms over the hundreds of years are the same one person). So its all a bit Batman-ish really (but Batman came first!), the rest of the plot mainly involves the Phantom searching for skulls that have great power of destruction and stopping bad guys from getting their hands on them (in the present day of 1938). Simple clichéd stuff really.Effects are dated now of course and the fights do look rather gentle, hell even back when the film was released it wasn't that great effects and stunts wise. I almost expected Kapow! to flash across the screen when Zane punched one of the cookie cutter henchmen baddies. Its a good fun film which kids will enjoy and is set totally within the classic period of the comicbook action genre, old school superheroes. You just have to look at the main villains name...'Xander Drax', could that be anymore ridiculously over the top? Oh and pools of man eating sharks? is this a Bond movie?In all honesty the Phantom isn't really a great character to put on film as he's a bit too dated and soft looking with his natty purple tights and simple black face mask which only covers his eyes. The fact he has a wolf and horse as his loyal sidekicks is also kinda odd really, odd combination wouldn't you think, plus he does look a bit daft on that horse in his purple catsuit. Didn't really think much of the pirates that make up the bad guys either, especially at the end which really turns into Schumacher-esque type affair. I must say I think Treat Williams was miscast as the main villain, I'm sure they could have found someone more caddish looking. But overall its all taken from the original source material (three stories) so that's good I suppose, its just the original stories and ideas are predictably very out of time now.I love how no one recognises 'Kit Walker' when he dons his Phantom black mask, just like Robin its so stupid that no one see right through it...figuratively speaking. Despite the rather familiar plot involving mystical skulls and ancient tribes ('Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom'?), the film doesn't beat around the bush and gives you exactly what it says on the tin. A very light-hearted period set superhero flick with lots of charm dames cads and a dashing hero in a tight purple catsuit.6/10 "},{"Title":"Slam Evil!","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Bangalla Jungla. 1938. A group of men, led by the surly Quill, forces a young native boy to guide them to a cave deep in the jungle, despite the boy's protests that the area is forbidden, protected by a being known as the ghost who walks. Quill's three men Styles, Breen and Morgan are skeptical but Quill knowingly rubs a scar on his cheek in the shape of a tiny skull and tells them not to worry about this ghost.Leaving the kid tied up in their truck, Quill and his men enter the cave, where they find a silver skull with green jewels for eyes. It quickly becomes apparent that this is what the men have come for. Despite a small setback (if you can call Styles being killed by a skeleton that inexplicably comes to life and strangles him a small setback), the crooks successfully exit with the skull and other ill- gotten loot, only to come face to face with the jungle's protector, a masked man in a purple body stocking astride a white stallion, accompanied by a ferocious wolf. No one is more terrified than Quill, who orders Breen to shoot the man. To their surprise and horror, the man, the ghost who walks, shoots Breen's gun right out of his hand with a firearm of his own!He is the Phantom. His horse Hero. His wolf Devil. He is the ghost who walks. And he protects the jungle.The Phantom easily defeats and captures Breen and Morgan, and rescues the native boy, but Quill escapes with the silver skull. Turning the criminals over to the Jungle Patrol led by Captain Philip Horton, the Phantom returns to his cavern lair and seeks the guidance of his father's spirit. Through him, he learns that the silver skull the looters came for is one of the mystical Skulls of Touganda. There are three - one made of silver, one made of gold, and one made of jade. If all three are brought together they'll produce a powerful supernatural force deadlier than any weapon known to mankind. And Quill still has it!In New York, Diana Palmer visits her uncle, Dave Palmer, who owns the Tribune newspaper. She finds him butting heads with businessman Xander Drax, after which Drax is compelled to leave following insinuations he has ties to the mob. Dave reveals that he's learned through a source at the library that Drax has been researching the Skulls of Touganda. He wants to go to the Bangalla Jungle to talk to Captain Horton of the matter; however, due to his age, Diana decides to go in his stead. She boards a plane for the Orient the next day, unaware that crime boss Ray Zephro and his brother Charlie are watching her, and inform Drax of her departure.After disposing of the librarian who spoke to Dave Palmer by tricking him into looking through a microscope that has knives come out of the eyepieces, Drax sends his all-female pilot corps to intercept Diana's plane. They force it down over the sea. Diana surrenders to the pilots' leader, Sala, to spare the other passengers, and is taken captive aboard Quill's ship. The Phantom learns of her abduction from Horton, and manages to rescue her. He still fails to recover the silver skull, though. After seeing her safely back to New York, the Phantom, realizing it is Drax who is the one who is behind everything, also heads to the Big Apple in an effort to prevent the ruthless businessman from obtaining any more of the magical skulls.Quill and Sala have delivered the silver skull to Drax. Quill tells his boss about the Phantom, claiming to have encountered and killed him before, insisting the ghost who walks can't die. Drax is unconcerned because he knows the location of the jade one. Worse, when the first two are brought together they'll reveal the location of the third. And with the Zephro family and the corrupt Commissioner Farley at Drax's beck and call, the Phantom is going to have his hands full fighting evil in the big city...Billy Zane as the Phantom makes a wonderfully charismatic and jolly hero, very much in the swashbuckling, old movie serial vein, whilst Treat Williams chews the scenery and spits it out as the villainous Drax, who simply loves being sadist and evil more than any villain I've ever seen. Kristy Swanson (the original Buffy!) is decent as Diana, while I find Catherine Zeta-Jones as Sala just plain annoying. The supporting cast is pretty good, particularly James Remar as Quill and Shang Tsung himself, Cary- Hiroyuki Tagawa, as the pirate lord Kabai Sengh, a prominent villain who doesn't show up until the end.The locations and action sequences are good, and the sets are mostly decent except for the pirate lair at the end, which looks pretty fake. The Phantom's rescue of the native boy from the truck hanging off the collapsing bridge, the escape from Quill's ship in a biplane, the chase on horseback through New York, and the climactic swordfight with the pirates all excite and delight. Only the finale is a letdown, with the magical skulls' destructive power being pretty underwhelming, performance-wise.Blood and gore is minimal. It has a few scary bits, such as the skeleton coming to life and killing Styles, but this is nothing that I haven't already seen in a Mummy movie. Drax's death is all special effects-y and more cartoonish than violent, and even the blinding of the librarian by the infamous killer microscope occurs entirely offscreen. Really, the most violent deaths are when we see a pretty brutal direct hit from a cannonball, and when someone gets eaten by sharks. Lots of blood there. But by and large it's all fairly tame.Bottom line, The Phantom is fun. The type of superhero movie they don't make anymore. "},{"Title":"Well-intentioned mediocrity, fun enough for a Sunday afternoon","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Out of all the superheroes out there absolutely none are even remotely close to being as electric, fascinating, and utterly charming as The Ghost Who Walks. Lee Falk's immortal comics (and the many other series that followed it) have their flaws, for sure, but as far as superhero back stories go nothing is as fun as the Phantom. Bruce Wayne's parents died, he grows up, has a butler, blah, blah. What? Spider bite mutation? Hmmm... Kal-El from Krypton? Meh. Sorry, but give me the intriguing jungle lore of the Phantom any day of the week. What is most attractive about the Phantom is the legendary nature of his back story, as well as his fantastical hideout (forget the batcave, show me to the Skull Cave. Come on, even the name is great).As you can probably tell by now I'm a pretty big fan and grew up reading the comics. As an adult I can tell that Batman had the advantage of some phenomenal writers writing about him, mostly through the 80's and 90's, I can tell that The Spirit's stories had an amazing amount of depth, especially for the time, I appreciate many of Vertigo's 'adult' comics, but when it comes to kicking back and enjoying a charming yarn nothing beats Lee Falk. For some reason, probably due to its reputation, I never saw Lonesome Dove director Simon Wincer's 1996 film until today, and all things considered it's hardly as bad as it could have been.There are certainly many problems with the film Kristy Swanson is miscast and the whole Diana Palmer story is badly-written, Catherine Zeta-Jones is in the movie as an air-pirate. Yes, you read that correctly. The hugely intriguing and oft-disturbing back story is reduced to a minute-long collection of clips at the start of the film (and I'm not the biggest fan of origin stories, but wasting possibly the greatest origin story for any superhero is criminal). Also, there are several problems with the portrayal of The Phantom himself, many of which have been covered in detail by more obsessive fans than I, and presumably ones with better memory. On the positive side the film is thankfully not nearly as campy as it could have been (and honestly, considering its reputation and the potential for camp here, it could have been Rocky Horror-redux, but it's only really camp for a couple of scenes), but it takes itself just seriously enough to avoid that, but certainly not seriously enough to take away from the old-fashioned adventure feel the film is going for.The film's technical credentials are outstanding, with excellent photography, stunning location shoots done really well, solid period design, and direction which achieves the presumed intent of making something not dissimilar to 30's or 40's serials (and in many ways the comics themselves) in tone quite well, and to my surprise without any of the referential, somewhat jokey 'homages' the Indiana Jones films went for. Considering the movie's reputation, I was expecting something clunkier and less competent on a technical level, but the film is always good to look at. The script is unfortunately muddled and a bit all over the place, but Billy Zane is really good here, and there's enough fun to be had to make this partially worthwhile viewing. It's a well-intentioned mediocrity, fun enough for a Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"A Fun Romp, as the Kids Say","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Phantom (Billy Zane), descendant of a line of African heroes, travels to New York to thwart a criminal genius (Treat Williams).A great cast, lead by Billy Zane, with Joe Dante producing (and almost directing). Could Bruce Campbell in the lead have made this film better? Hard to say. (I love Zane, but I have to admit he mumbles quite a bit through this film.) What I find most striking about this movie is that it has received a terrible reputation on IMDb (ranking below 5 of 10 stars), but managed to pull a 3.5 of 4 stars from Roger Ebert. Wow. Has Ebert ever been more off the mark from the common viewer? I, for one, liked it and found it a visually appealing adventure film. I especially appreciate the setting of 1930s New York, a wonderful backdrop for a crime story. I must confess I never read the comic strip, so the accuracy is something I cannot attest to. But I would have gladly welcomed a sequel, rather than have Zane go on to make Titanic. "},{"Title":"Tribute to a Ghost","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a fun and well-made escapist film that would have, in a better world, performed much better at the box office.I blame the poor BO for The Phantom on several factors 1) The character has limited to poor visibility in the USA, as opposed to other superheroes 2) 'Batman Returns' and 'Batman Forever,' which preceded this, were of mediocre to poor quality, thus making audiences unwilling to risk their money to see this film 3) Period pieces are a risky venture for film-makers seeking a young audience...the Rocketeer and The Shadow (both good films!) had failed to sell tickets prior to this film.This film is not intended to be the 'Citizen Kane' of superheroes and who really needs a Citzen Kane of superheroes anyway? Rather, we have an attempt to do a superhero in the style of an Indiana Jones movie, and this actually works quite well.The substance of this movie is largely good old-fashioned fight scenes, daring stunts (there's a great scene with Our Hero jumping from a flying biplane onto a running horse...great stuff!), cliffhangers, and exotic locales.There are a number of deviations from the Phantom comicstrip that might irk die-hard fans, but I have come to accept that there will always be liberties taken in these things...IMO, this adaptation retains enough of the spirit of the comics for the liberties to be forgiven.The only weak point of this film is, for me, the strange androgynous perfection of Billy Zane's face...perhaps this film was simply made at the worst moment of 1990's male aesthetic, but when Zane is not wearing his Phantom mask, he looks too much like a male prostitute for my tastes.However, when he wears the Phantom mask, Zane does indeed look, sound and act like Our Hero, so overall I was able to enjoy the film quite a lot.Other performance were completely enjoyable, especially Treat Williams as the villain and a young smoking-hot Catherine Zeta Jones as a dangerous lady pilot. Best among the supporting cast was the always great Patrick McGoohan as the ghost of the Phantom's father...this character never appeared in the comics but if my own father were to come back as a ghost I'd like Patrick McGoohan to play him! (This is somewhat poignant to write this, McGoohan being dead for a few years now, him obviously being a ghost himself....) I especially appreciate this film now, since superhero films are now dominated by over-top-sadism and ultraviolence, or by confusing messes of phantasmogorical cosmic spectacle where you can't tell what the heck is happening.This film is old-fashioned fun and escapism, and if that is what you seek, you will be happy with The Phantom. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Action Adventure","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Only read a comic book once or twice on the Phantom. So I had no preconceived notions.I give this 7 out of 10, because it was enjoyable, and I think it executed it's ideas well (it's an homage to serials I believe, like Indiana Jones.) I liked the guy who played the Phantom, he had an amusing charisma of sorts.The girl who played Diana was cute, and I enjoyed her independent woman role. Sure it's simplistic, but that's the style you go after for this genre. It's about heros and damsels in distress so to speak.The female villainess was probably the best role. She was sexy and fun. "},{"Title":"Superb natural special effects & stunts, with minimal CGI!","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The main winning aspect of this film is its superb special effects. In an age when most action-adventure films are saturated with overdone AND over-obvious CGI, this film has great natural-looking special effects. Plus absolutely brilliant stunts. If it has CGI at all it is hardly noticeable. One worth watching if only for that trueness-to-life!Sadly, the film misses any real 'oomph' effect. A great story-line that should have been made into a better film, it loses any power in the telling of its comic-book story by being badly put together. The film seems to 'flip' from one scene to another, with frequently poor connection between sequences or line of script. It ends up being so overly fast & disconnected that it becomes disjointed and under-developed in its story-telling.Another flaw is the patchy history & development of several characters. These character-stories are frequently under-explained. Various points are left out that are key to an understanding of the plot. There is not even an explanation to the viewer for the Phantom's choice of rather unusual purple bodysuit. No doubt this was explained in the original comic-strip, but for those of us who haven't read it, we are left out of the 'loop'. Nor are we told why his dead &#x96; and human &#x96; father seems to haunt him in a real-life form that only the Phantom can see. And we are never told what happens in the end to Catherine Zeta-Jones' bad-gal character! Was she &#x96; as part-way through the film it is only partially implied that she might soon be &#x96; vindicated of her evil deeds? And where did her bad-gal character go after they escaped the island?! She just disappears, like a phantom herself!Several scenes seem clipped. Even the end of the film itself is far too brief. A case of the cutting-room floor, perhaps? It makes the film look like the final cut was made at going-home time when the film crew just wanted to get to get it finished & felt it would 'do'. Sadly, it doesn't.Billy Zane is great in his own under-stated way, but is perhaps too under-stated for a super-hero role. His depiction of the Phantom lacks any presence or skulking 'purpose' as to why his character Kit Walker takes on a superhero mantel at all. Perhaps a more edgy characterisation would have been better. He gave a better performance as the ex-fiancé in 'Titanic' a year later. Treat Williams' bad-guy also lacks depth. He plays the role of the chief baddie with far too much whimsy, giving the second overly lightweight performance of this film. Oh dear, I can easily imagine these 2 'nice-guys' having a friendly drink on-set. The viewer should be able to envisage them attacking each other!The film sadly doesn't do itself any justice. Hey-ho, let's hope the remake of this &#x96; if they follow the 'Batman' example &#x96; turns up on our cinema screens soon.~ by SceneByScene ~ "}{"Title":"Well worth watching","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I genuinely liked this film to the extent that it is one of the few comic strip based films that actually work. The action has a good pace which is a major issue for most films as the origin story usually takes up way too much time. Here, we get a well constructed action movie. There are some really interesting characters in the film- over the top admitedly but please bear in mind that this comic strip is a 1930s invention and the film tries to capture as much of that spirit as it can. So we do have some larger than life characters but they never really turn into caricatures. The general idea is also enjoyable as jungle based Phantom has always been a fairly untypical character avoiding the Tarzan/Jungle Jim stereotypes as well as the Batman clichés. So all in all a very well made comic strip based action flick with an unusual hero and a great cast. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Get's better with age and repeated viewings!","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think the worst thing about the Phantom was when it was released. Seems like in the 90s everything had to be updated for a modern audience and so you had a bunch of classic characters uprooted from their natural time period and stuck into a period they didn't fit in.The Phantom is perhaps the best comic book tribute film I've seen. It really does feel like a film about a late 1930s era two fisted pulp hero. The film also matches the period in design and more importantly style. The film is full of pulp era visuals. Bright red seaplanes flown by beautiful female sky pirates. A rusty old tramp steamer. New York City in full 30s glamor. Motorcycle cops is smart blue uniforms. A colonial outpost of the British Empire. A lavish mansion. A lush tropical jungle. Yellow taxi cabs. Great costumes including the purple suit. Every shot is a visual treat. The characters are dead on as well. The Phantom is an action hero with a heart of gold like a 30s era hero should be not a 50s era dick or a modern anti-hero and he hasn't got super powers or a tool belt full of outlandish gadgets. Diana Palmer is a plucky feminist and like all pulp feminist she expresses this by showing the hero she can hold her own instead of complaining about how sexist the hero is. Xander Drax is a power hungry and psychotic industrialist with a flair for the dramatic and an ironic sense of humor. Sala is a sultry vamp villainess who chooses the good side in the end even if she knows she won't get the guy. Even Al is great as a regular blue collar Joe who gets caught up in an unexpected adventure.As far as I'm concerned this movie hits on every level. You don't watch a film like this to get engrossed in the plot or to be intellectually challenged. You watch a movie like this to be taken on a fantastic ride that is not only visually beautiful but solidly entertaining. A great tribute to it's character and era. "},{"Title":"A good recreation, NOT a disappointment!","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" General Information!!!This movie is based on a comic book. For the ones who do not know what a 'comic book' means, a Comic Book/series is mainly targeted at the under-13 market and also for people above that age who are looking for some humour, heroism, bravery and moral with a pleasant and non-tragic story-line.I am forced to define the term just because critics all over the internet have criticised this Movie as 'Miscast' and 'Silly'.The movie is a worthy tribute to the brilliant Comic book series - 'The Phantom' created by Lee Falk. As a child I spent countless hours enjoying the works of Lee Falk through 'The Phantom' and 'Mandrake the Magician'comics. As I read these books (as most other people did through the last 5 to 6 decades), I visualised the Skull cave, Diana, Rex, Guran, Hero and Devil, The room of the Chronicles, the treasure trove in the cave, Phantom Head, the Jade Hut, Golden beach of Keela Wee, the two Presidents and the vile villains who the Phantom encountered through 400 years. Now, I would be lying if I said the movie was a tangible recreation of my imagination; but the storyline and the characters were able to do justice to their roles and successfully brought this childhood hero back to life.This movie is recommended to audiences of all ages and is worth watching as this is the only movie cast around the mysterious life of 'The Ghost Who Walks'. "},{"Title":"Totally true to the comic-books!!!","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just don't understand how this great flick is rated so unbelievably low. I am one of (apparently) the few that loved the comic-books. All the other superheroes like Spiderman, Superman etc. seemed whack to me, unfair even, since they needed none-human powers to do whatever it is they do. The Phantom didn't have any super-powers, he could be injured (and was so quite regularly) and used guns and his fists to defend himself. The dialogs with his dead father, the skull-cave, his dog, the horse, the mask, the island, the bad guy (I am also one of the few Treat Williams-fans)...everything just like in the comic-books. The movie is not thee masterpiece of the century if you look at editing, cinematography, dialogs etc., but it's one hell of an entertaining ride. Forget about Batman, Spiderman, Superman, Hulk, and all the other losers that need superpowers... 9/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated fluff","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Based on the Lee Falk comic strip, this large scale film adaptation of the Phantom plays itself out as a cross of Batman and Indiana Jones as the title character, played by Billy Zane, sets out to thwart evil Treat Williams, who is trying to gather three magical skulls to rule the world.An engaging piece of fluff that should have been a hit sadly got lost in the summer of 1996 - granted that was the summer of ID4 - and then disappeared into obscurity, but for its cult followers. Billy Zane, a fine actor who never hit it big, gives a good performance as the title character. Kristy Swanson is adorable as his would be lover, though sadly some extra scenes developing their romance were left on the cutting room floor. Could have used some tighter directing here and there but nevertheless very entertaining.The film also marks another early pre-stardom role for Catherine Zeta-Jones, just two years before she became immortalized by having herself stripped naked by Antonio Banderas in The Mask of Zorro. She makes the most of her bad girl role here, while the careers of Swanson and Zane faded away, alas. "},{"Title":"Not an immortal classic but a pretty good diversion for Phantom fans","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Comic book movies more than any other genre are enjoyable or not predominantly on how much you're attached to the original source. The Phantom movie adaptation is a striking example of this. During my childhood I was a huge fan of the Phantom comics as released in India on the Indrajal label...I still try to get the stories that I consider distinctive enough when I see them...and my opinion of this movie is definitely colored by my enjoyment of its relation to the source comic.The story is quite hokey. In 1938 the 21st Phantom must battle a lawless magnate called Xander Drax who wishes to acquire 3 magical skulls whose combination will release an energy more powerful than anything else and enable him to control the world. Yada.Quite a few things have been done right here. The production design is very handsome, be it the depiction of the Phantom's jungle realm - the Skull Cave, treasure room, ancestral crypt, the phantom chronicles etc. - or late 1930's art deco New York. The narrative moves at a zippy pace and the writers have rightly analyzed that the Phantom is a macho wise-cracking ass-kicking action hero who doesn't waste time moping over his dead ancestors or over his love Diana. Some of the action set-pieces, like the one where the Phantom and Diana are escaping from the villains in a small plane and do a leap onto the back of the Phantom's horse Hero are terrific. Billy Zane (who is probably more famous as the snob suitor of Titanic) carries the Phantom mantle with charm, effacing to a great extent the essential goofiness of the purple costume. Unlike the alter-ego of many other costumed heroes he's also equally interesting as Kit Walker.So what are the disappointments? The plot. The Phantom's world in its limited scope has been distinctive. His villains are pirates, poachers, despotic rulers of tiny neighboring nations. Bringing him to New York just a third into the film and having him combat a generic world domination scheme takes away from the uniqueness of the franchise One of the quibbles that those wanting the most faithful sort of adaptation of the Phantom franchise will have is that the film does not feature any BLACKS. The tribes surrounding the Phantom seem like they're from Hawaii or south America, as does his retainer Guran (dressed here in a Nehru jacket and turban). 1938 New York too seems totally free of blacks, even as serfs. Probably the makers chickened out from depicting blacks as they were portrayed in the Phantom strips.The perceived need to have emancipated women also hurts the movie's legend. Sure, Diana has always been a tough cookie but if she can also wipe out guys with single punches, what is special about the Phantom and all his hardcore physical conditioning? The villain Xander Drax is a huge disappointment. Sure he has a great name but he's played by an actor with a reedy voice who inspires no chill even when he's doing questionable things like having librarians eye-stabbed by spring-loaded knives or lobbing javelins into the backs of disagreeable colleagues.The film seems to have had a curious budgeting. The sets and props are handsome and some of the action is painstakingly choreographed but the post-production budget seems to have been nothing because all the visual effects have a very low-quality to them, frequently worse than even some of the more recent Indian movies incorporating SFX. The climactic showdown in the lair of the Singh brotherhood also has an underwhelming feel to it. I imagine the original vision was to have a huge pirate warren but the budget constraints reduce the Singh stronghold to little more than a single mid-sized room set and a clash with around a dozen pirates at most.All this nit-picking may seem that the movie has more bad points than good. But if you keep an open mind and fill in the gaps that the lack of budget creates you have still a fairly enjoyable if also rather uneven outing and possibly the best Phantom adaptation given that there is no scope for one in the future. "},{"Title":"OK superhero stuff","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Were it not for Billy Zane -- and with a nod to the loveably hammy Treat Wiliams -- 1996's THE PHANTOM would be as forgettable as Alex Baldwin's horribly dull THE SHADOW. Fortunately, Zane's light leading man style very nicely fits the role of the legendary African-based, purple-spandexed superhero and a mustachioed Williams makes for a perfectly campy villain as the power-hungry Xander Drax. The plot is superfluous -- something about tracking down hidden silver skulls to gain world domination -- but the action and breezy attitude are what count here, and this movie has plenty of both. The comic book-handsome Zane, who seems to find the weirdest roles to play, is loads of fun as the Ghost Who Walks and Williams makes a great counterfoil as he madly pursues those above-mentioned skulls. The action is almost nonstop and largely done the old-fashioned way, with little CGI and almost 100 percent physical gags. Zane himself is perched atop a speeding train at one point, or at least it appears to be him rather than his stuntman. In the end, THE PHANTOM is all a bit clunky, and anytime thee action stops, the movie immediately goes off the tracks. Fortunately, there's enough fighting and explosions and vine-swinging to keep any kid awake, if not the adults. Kristy Buffy Swanson makes for a spunky and sexy Diana Prince, bearing little resemblance to the sultry Diana of the comics but nevertheless she makes for great eye candy. This one is a time killer for a slow Saturday night, and it probably will come as no surprise a sequel was never made. Still, it beats THE SHADOW four ways to Sunday. "},{"Title":"not too bad","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw the phantom in the cinema back in the year of 1996 and I have to say that its not all bad. Sure there have been better superhero movies, but, I know that this one will appeal to most superhero fans. a high of this movie must be the beautiful filmed Island scenes, and of course the beautiful Mrs Jones. the costume was true to its character though I doutb that Mr Zane would have looked good, had he been exited by either Swanson or Jones.I aggree that this movie was a bit far fetched, the badguys maybe a bit too crazy and over the top, but one have to remember that this is only a movie and who are we to say that the actual badguy wouldnt be as over the top as Treat Williams. Alas I would say that the phantom is what you would get when you crossed over two heroes, Batman and like many others said Indiana Jones (though Jones is more of an adventurer.  "},{"Title":"I'm Somewhere In-Between","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Most folks either seem to like or hate this movie.  I'm kinda on the borderline, although edging a little more closely on the thumbs up side. I wasn't very impressed with Kristy Swanson, but the rest of the cast does their roles justice.  Treat Williams, playing the character required to overact against the square-jawed, somewhat normal hero (see the Joker and Penguin in the Batman movies, Khan to the Shadow, etc.), does pretty well. Zane manages to bring some humor to the part of a character who I've never really been that fond of.  I wouldn't mind seeing a sequel myself, but then the general trend seems to be against these pulp type movies (although that's essentially what the Burton Batman flicks are, as are the Indiana Jones flicks).  Maybe folks just can't take a guy in bright purple tights seriously?  Eh, but what do I know - I liked the Shadow too. "},{"Title":"Sleepy Little Film With Moments of Innocent Charm","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Not as awful as some people think, this harmless INDIANA JONES imitation gets by on the occasional laugh and some elegantly flattering shots of two very beautiful ladies in the cast.Billy Zane's lifeless performance as the Phantom is clearly what sank this film at the box office. Zane can be darkly sexy in thrillers like DEAD CALM, or villainously sexy in TITANIC, but as a good guy with super powers he is very bad. He seems to lack all sexual energy, all humor, and all sense of fun. He sucks the air out of every scene. He really puts the coma in comatose! The visual images are all wrong -- a masked super hero riding a horse, fighting with pistols, just looks like a chump. And his goofy grin just looks -- well, goofy.On the other hand, Kristy Swanson as Diana Palmer turns in a sweet, wholesome performance, very appealing personally and quite lovely to look at. You can really see how well she looks in period clothing, even though the script doesn't give her nearly enough to do. It's part of the recurring bad luck in this stunning and talented performer's career that she's forever being upstaged by more exciting personalities. (BUFFY, anyone?) In this case the culprit is Catherine Zeta Jones, an unknown at the time who has a relatively small role as a bad girl. Again and again, the dark bad girl puts her spell on the helpless blonde, both outsmarting her and outfighting her. Poor Kristy is pretty and sweet, but she looks like mush in comparison to the slinky Catherine. It's so bittersweet the way Zeta-Jones walks off with scene after scene while sweet, unassuming Kristy Swanson just looks blank. You have to wonder how the poor girl felt! Beauty is beauty, but charisma is something extra -- a star power that goes beyond looks. Catherine has it, and Kristy doesn't. Was she crying in her dressing room between takes? That brings up another ironic triumph. Treat Williams was touted for years as the next big thing, and never made it. Yet here, in this forgotten, low rent bomb, he pulls off his most engaging, natural, and entertaining performance -- as the deliciously corny villain, Xander Drax. After years of broken promises and missed opportunities, Treat seems to relish every minute of attention, and you have to admire him for scoring a moral victory, even if no one is watching. It's like a Kevin Costner baseball movie, where the aging has-been reaching down deep inside to win the only victory that counts. The one where he gives his all, and proves something, not to the fans, but to his colleagues and himself. Did the crew applaud when he left the stage? One final note -- three cheers for James Remar, twenty five years since THE WARRIORS and still going strong. You can believe it, War Chief. Ajax Lives!!! "}{"Title":"Comic book style","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this, I new not to take it seriously, or to expect alot.  Its not the best movie I have seen, but its one that I do enjoy and watch for fun. Okay, so the lines need some work and the action is nothing new, but still I thought it was pretty good for being based on a comic book. I recommend this movie if you are in a fun mood and just feel like watching something you can enjoy.   "},{"Title":"A cute cheesy movie","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you're looking for a movie with a spectacular performance, amazing special effects, or the best romance around. Don't look at The Phantom. If you're looking for a cheesy, cute super hero movie where good conquers evil and things look pretty then you'll like The Phantom. I watched this when I was much younger but I've loved it the whole time. It's a fun movie to watch just don't go expecting Oscar material or anything. All of it fits together nicely and it seems like a fun movie to be a part of. I enjoyed seeing Treat in this movie and whenever I see Billy Zane I always think of the purple suit and am amused. If you can let go you can enjoy. Enjoy it for what it is, a cute cheesy super hero movie and nothing more. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not as good as other superhero movies, but it does have its charm.  Billy Zane, who usually plays creeps in the movies, notably in Titanic, is quite good in the title role.  Kristy Swanson and Catherine Zeta Jones are good as the female heroine and the villainous.  Treat Williams is good as the villain.  The plot is a little thin but so what. The film is a lot of fun.   "},{"Title":"An Indiana Jones wannabe...","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ... but that's not necessarily a bad thing. After all, Raiders of the Lost Ark is one of the greatest adventure movies of all time. There's quite a bit of Raiders in 1996's The Phantom; it's just no where as good. Even the three Indiana Jones sequels are better. But it's not bad either.Billy Zane shines in the title role -- charming and in absolute perfect shape -- while Kristy Swanson and Catherine Zeta-Jones offer their feminine charms to the mix, not to mention Samantha Eggar. Also on hand are James Remar, Treat Williams and Patrick McGoohan.The Phantom is just a fun, cartooney adventure that takes place mostly in the jungle, with some parts in the big city. It's great for a night when you're in the mood for some light viewing.The film runs 100 minutes and was shot in Thailand, Australia and California.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"THE PHANTOM (Simon Wincer, 1996) **1/2","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've been on a roll watching adventure/comic-strip films since Christmas, so I decided to check this one out as well curiously enough, though, I don't recall it coming out back in the day&#133;unlike, say, THE SHADOW (1994) &#150; which, incidentally, followed in quick succession. For the record, I read Roger Ebert's surprisingly enthusiastic appraisal of THE PHANTOM (which he called one of the most handsome films ever made!) prior to watching the DVD. While it's certainly enjoyable and remarkably evocative of Saturday matinée' serials (the character was actually brought to the screen in this form in the 1940s &#150; incidentally, this version is available on DVD through VCI), however, I found this particular film to be too low-key for its own good.Billy Zane is ideally cast as the athletic Phantom (his alter ego gets surprisingly little exposure), Treat Williams is the suave bordering-on-camp villain (being set in the turbulent late 1930s, he's depicted as having dictatorial ambitions which he intends to achieve with any means possible), Kristy Swanson provides Zane's love interest (in both his guises), Catherine Zeta-Jones is one of Williams' associates who competes with Swanson for The Phantom's attention and eventually has a change of heart, Patrick McGoohan is Zane's father and an earlier incarnation of the seemingly undying Phantom (he's dubbed The Ghost Who Walks). Action sequences are well enough handled (particularly when he jumps from an aircraft onto his galloping faithful steed), and modest special effects come into play where the magical skulls (Williams' ultimate goal) are involved. "},{"Title":"Billy Zane - yum","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes, this is a silly movie. Yes the dialogue is stilted and the acting ranges from well done to how the heck did this guy get his SAG card? But here's the thing Billy Zane either shirtless or clasped in skin tight spandex. You have to admit that just looking at Billy is worth the price of admission.The set dressing is great, the late 30's fashions, automobiles and interior decorations are wonderful. The gentlemen are suave and the ladies are lovely, the bad guys are sincerely bad and the good guys are icons of truth and justice what more could you ask for?Just enjoy the camp and don't expect more than a couple of hours of light-weight fun. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was thrilled to see that the Phantom was finally on the big screen, since I was a big Phantom 2040 fan. The movie was pretty good. Billy Zane kind of sucked, but the story was good, once you get past the silly costume and the jungle theme. I recommend that everyone should see it. "},{"Title":"Hi Ho Silver - and Away!!!   (with the fairies)","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Faced with the problem of finding an actor who looks better in a tight-fitting cat-suit than Catherine Zeta-Jones, the producers managed it. Billy Zane is barely contained by his lilac lingerie. His ability to overcome the embarrassment of having to wear a purple jump-suit and put in a believable super-hero performance must be some sort of tribute to his acting credentials.Well, when I said believable........the problem with the Phantom is that he appears to be a cross between the Lone Ranger and Batman. He lives in the tropical jungles of Asia, rides a white stallion and is accompanied by a sub-Artic wolf.......oh, and he wears and shoots cowboy six-guns. Huh? Apart from all that he's just an average guy who has a job to do.I have read that there was quite a fan base for this 1930''s American comic character and that they complained about the casting of Patrick McGoohan as the Phantom's dad - because he was too old! Well, in my opinion there are cults.......and then there are really silly cults.The delectable Catherine puts in a fine 'evil hussy' performance early in the film (before they make her a goody-goody, for some vague feminisation reason). Her performance is worthy of McGoohan himself in full wicked mode, but McGoohan, the actor, would surely have delighted in the roaring-bonkers evil of Treat Williams as the dastardly Drax. How the producers of the Bond movies have never spotted him in this movie and made him their ultimate cartoon villain is beyond my ken! Anyhow, its a good film, the cinematic quality never flags. They appear to have had a script actually finished before they started shooting. If you just go with a purple-lycra-clad-super-hero-cowboy who lives in the jungle.........the rest is great! My only complaint is that there are not enough scenes with Patrick McGoohan in....but if you've read my other reviews, you'll probably have seen that one coming! PS. There is no truth in the rumour that McGoohan only agreed to do the film because he wanted to add yet another drop-dead beauty to his long list of co-stars. I'm referring to Ms. Jones of course. "},{"Title":"At least it looks nice.","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" With a stronger story and a better director, The Phantom might have amounted to something, but as it is it's simply a passably entertaining adventure yarn with gorgeous cinematography and an attractive cast to match. I've seen many movies much worse than this one, but I've also seen much better ones.The best and the worst thing about this movie is the campy, old-fashioned style with which it was written and directed. This is the kind of movie in which the jungle animals call to each other to announce the approach of the hero (in an obvious nod to Tarzan films), the hero's dog and the hero's horse appear to have a conversation with each other, one of the villains blows circles with his cigar smoke for no reason at all, and so on.Obviously, anybody who enjoys campy, old-fashioned movies is probably going to like this one, whereas other people are going to watch it and realize within five minutes that it just isn't for them. Unlike the Indiana Jones movies, which improve upon the Saturday matinée serials that inspired them, The Phantom never really transcends its source material and remains every bit as cheesy as those bygone serials.This movie recreates the spirit of the serials so obsessively that, at one point, the hero rolls across a pirate cannon, the cannon obviously shakes, and you assume that the filmmakers left that shot in the movie deliberately as an homage to the shoddy props of the old serials but you're just not sure. This movie even begins with a caption that reads For Those Who Came In Late&#133;, which is not only the most obvious reference to old serials that I've seen in any recent film but also the most affectionate.As an evocation of the old serials this movie works just fine, but when the cast is as well-chosen as this one it's almost a shame the filmmakers didn't set their sights a little higher and give the actors a more meaningful script.Billy Zane, for example, was an ideal choice to play the Phantom because nobody looks at him and sees an action hero, and as a result he's completely convincing as an ordinary guy who is not a super-hero but is rather spending all his time struggling to live up to his heroic image. Perhaps no other actor could have played the Phantom with touches of empathy and humor so neatly and effectively blended together.Treat Williams is a treat to watch as the arch-villain, and seems to be channeling much of his performance from Robert Armstrong's Denham character in King Kong, with dialogue like There must be an uncharted island...This is the chance of a lifetime! One of the few scenes in this movie that has any real bite to it is the one in which he tells the guy to look in the microscope, which I suppose shows how evil he is without violating the film's PG rating.Kristy Swanson is wholesome and appealing as the heroine, Catherine Zeta-Jones provides a sultry villainess, and even the most modest roles, such as McGoohan as the Phantom's father and David Proval as a gangster, are so well-performed that the actors almost allow you to overlook the film's flaws.The only disappointing performance in this movie comes from James Remar as the chief henchman, if only because years earlier in 48 Hours he gave one of my all-time favorite villainous performances. He's so dull and restrained in this movie (by the PG rating, of course) that I couldn't believe when I first saw him that he was the same guy who once gave one of the best psycho-villain performances of '80s action cinema.Jeffrey Boam's script is stuffed with good dialogue, with my favorite line coming from the cabby who tells the Phantom Coin of the realm would be appreciated when he doesn't get US currency. But again, no amount of juicy lines can compensate for the lack of imagination and originality in the screenplay. The main story is pretty weak, involving powerful skulls that, when two are joined and pointing the way to the third skull, all too conveniently have the appropriate map on the wall and know how to use it! The biggest failure of this movie is that it doesn't really do a good job building up the mythology of the Phantom. The only unique power of the Phantom, in my opinion, is his mythology,his ability to make his enemies believe that he really is immortal and more (or less) than human. But since none of the villains in this movie really believe in the Phantom's power, what's the point? Why bother putting on the purple tights (or any colored tights) if you're just going to punch, throw and shoot your enemies like any other, more conventional action hero? There's a sequence in this movie in which the Phantom follows the bad guys to a remote location, and when he suddenly reveals himself they're not the least bit terrified or even mildly surprised! The only element in this story that really clicks is the romance between the hero and the heroine, largely because Zane and Swanson have such great on-screen chemistry. Like many other comic-book sagas, this one has a lot of fun with the idea of the heroine not recognizing the hero's alter ego, and the hero in disguise having to keep his true identity hidden through one scene after another.So what we have here is a decent film that's disappointing only because it didn't reach its potential. The only missing ingredients in this movie are a compelling plot-line, and Steven Spielberg in the director's chair.Rating 6 (It's almost worth seeing.) "},{"Title":"fun, if nothing else","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Phantom is mostly a typical superhero movie, with the good guy clobbering a bunch of bad guys. Looking back on it, this one has some significance due to the presence of Catherine Zeta-Jones before she got really famous. Of course, Billy Zane as the title character gives the movie what any superhero flick really needs a deep-voiced dude who doesn't take crap from anyone. Even Kristy Swanson, usually a laughingstock, is pretty enjoyable here.So, if you plan to watch this movie, don't expect any sort of religious experience; the goal here is to have fun, and that shouldn't be hard at all. I can't believe that I'd never heard of The Phantom until this movie came out. Also starring Treat Williams, James Remar and Patrick McGoohan. "}{"Title":"Deliberately silly movie but not bad","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bad guys try to steal three special skulls that will let them rule the world but phantom is there to try and stop them. Lots of hokey talking and actions scenes that as usual, look great but don't make any sense. Bill Zane does OK as the hero but his costume is a joke. His whole head except for the face is covered by a some purple cloth and it makes him look like a purple baby. He really needed some ears or horns or something on the headpiece to make him look dangerous. Likewise with this wolf he has for a partner. Not a very large animal and pretty mangy. Some wolves weigh nearly 200 pounds and one of those would have been great. Kristy swanson and catherine ZJ are fantastic to look at as the female leads. I give this a C+. "},{"Title":"Medium good (needs work though)","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Good lord almighty, the Phantom has got to be the dopiest superhero creations I have yet heard of. So who is the Phantom? Well without the costume, he is Kit Walker; American born, but living in the illustrious Asian jungle. A friend of the local natives, Kit speaks their language and practices their culture, but dresses like something from another planet, in purple pyjamas (bearing vague tattooed patterns) He carrying twin pistols like a cowboy. Likewise, he rides a horse, but has a wolf for a sidekick. It is almost impossible to take something like this seriously. It is a good thing then that part of the time, The Phantom winks at itself. It acknowledges it's gimmicky/campy nature, but it is far from being a comedy. As a result (despite some funny parts) it is still pretty cheesy and hard to care for, but that does not make the film unwatchableA better way to look at The Phantom is to see it as another entry into the comic book noir- class of pulpy film adaptations which include Dick Tracy and the Shadow. This one is not really 'noir' in the sense that it is dark, but it comes out of the noir time period, of the early- mid 20th century a time of fedoras, big black cars, and sub machine guns.The Phantom is dosed with an appropriate amount of comic book type thrills and chills, which include gun play, and chases on land sea and air, not to mention a fairly abrupt laser fight during the climax. This sequence should probably have been longer actually, It might have amounted to the best part of the film. Billy Zane doesn't do much for me as the Phantom, nor does Kristy Swanson as his gal, but it would be wrong to give them full blame for this error. The screenplay is feeble and shallow without giving them much to do or say, and the whole thing feels surprisingly short. Actually, the Phantom becomes a case of the heroes getting upstaged by the villains, like The Dark Knight. Treat Williams is a classic case of a sharp dressed, upper class sleaze who has some very epic evil plans. This is such a cliché, but Williams brings a great, and much needed sense of humour to it, something that probably should have been applied to the Mongolian Villain from the Shadow (whose name I forget at the moment). There are a few other laughs to be had, but not enough I feel.Maybe had director Simon Wincer chosen to take this movie further in the comedy direction, it would have been really good. The Phantom sorts of flirts occasionally with satire of that sort, but not enough. If taken seriously, it can still be enjoyed i suppose, but not on a great level. The end result is a mildly amusing motion picture, with some room for improvement, but it certainly could've been worse.The Phantom was actually a hard movie for me to find, and I'm not entirely certain, that the search as worth it, but I won't argue that I want those hundred minutes of my life back. Do I recommend it? I'm not sure "},{"Title":"Mediocre fare","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay. It is kind of like INDIANA JONES in purple tights, yet it has some pretty good scenes. The cinematography is wonderful. One gets the feeling of actually sashaying about in the deepest, darkest Bengali Jungle. This helps with the film a lot.Billy Zane plays the title character, who, with the help of Devil, his pet wolf, protect the weak, dispenses justice and fights for good causes. How he accomplishes to stay so busy in a relatively remote jungle baffled me, but it is a movie, after all. THE PHANTOM's action sequences are tempered, yet still has the thrills n' spills to propel it forward. The Phantom character gets drawn into a nasty plot by megalomaniac industrialist Xander Drax (Treat Williams, whose proclivity for over acting is starting to spawn legends...). Drax wants to rule the world, you see, and since this takes place in the late 1930's, he's not alone in this ambition.The plot isn't extremely intricate, but thankfully doesn't grandstand or preach. It just keeps pace, but might have a few adults knitting their brows, as the screenplay leans toward absurdity at times. A museum scene, where thundering action takes place in front of a virtual mob of people. They stand there with mouths agape. Then, are easily led out of the scene because somebody tells them of refreshments in the other room(!). I don't know about you, but I am certainly a tad nosier than that.All tolled, THE PHANTOM is okay. Recommended for a very rainy day only. "},{"Title":"Easy to watch and forget","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Phantom, a man who doesn't die, a legend of the Bengali jungle. A man, who (and his ancestors and his children after him) has sworn to fight against crime his whole life.I was a fan of The Phantom comics, pretty much of the same reasons I was a fan of Tarzan when, I was a kid They were adventurous and fun and some times thrilling or even little bit spooky. And I actually was surprised when I found out that there was a movie made out of Phantom.Now the good news movie is set in 1938, which I thought was a good decision. There are even couple of good actors in it Treat Williams and Catharine Zeta Jones.Bad news Script is badly written. And actors just seem to sling out their lines without any effort to sound natural. And Treat Williams is actually pretty bad in this film. The Phantom (Billy Zane) is just badly chosen hero for this film.There are couple of good scenes in this film and sometimes even the atmosphere is great, but in over all it's actually nothing very spectacular.Easy to watch ones and forget about it after wards. "},{"Title":"Almost Great, but for Inept Script","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love the Phantom--serials, comics, cartoons, comic books, paperbacks. This 1996 version of The Phantom had almost absolutely everything going for it--action, great costume, good actors, fantastic set design, and hot 40s style babes (The original Buffy, and a very young Catherine Zeta Jones). BUT it had an inept screenplay that muffed almost every opportunity to pull us into the story. In fact, storywise, this 1996 Phantom plays more like a sequel (The Phantom 2 or The Phantom Returns perhaps) by starting cold, without any exposition as to who the Phantom is. By the time all is explained during the awkward, derivative, and unnecessarily convoluted plot, the uninitiated have lost interest. For instance, it would have been much more effective to begin with Patrick McGoohan being killed and then passing the Phantom responsibility to his unsuspecting son, Billy Zane, instead of having him appear midway through the flick as a figment of the new Phantom's imagination (a lame gimmick reused in the similarly story-challenged first Lara Croft movie) in order to explain why The Ghost Who Walks never seems to die. In fact, this was the way the old Columbia serial Phantom began.But, as I say, the look of the 96 Phantom is great, and there are some cheap thrills. Unfortunately they're not as thrilling as they might have been due to sucky storytelling.Still, it is better than the 1970s version of Doc Savage, another guilty pleasure of mine. "},{"Title":"Australization of a Comic Hero","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Simon Wincer is a notable Australian director--I rate his Phar Lap as one of the more interesting Australian films at a time when directors Peter Weir, Bruce Beresford, George Miller and Gillian Armstrong were making their names Down Under and not associated with Hollywood.Wincer--typical of the Australian tendency--turns Phantom to suit Australian locales. The Bandar pygmies are not African in this movie. Bengalla is not populated by the blacks but a brown population in this movie. Wincer takes liberties with Lee Falk's ideas here in his movie, the chief of the Jungle Patrol has met the Commander and knows him well; Lee Falk never allowed them to meet formally.   While a comic strip adaptation is not to be taken seriously, Wincers sequences of Hero (the horse) galloping in the forests were truly remarkable. Phar Lap is briefly recreated!Treat Williams as Xander Trax and Catherine Zeta Jones are the strengths of an otherwise below average film proving that Wincer does not belong to the class of Weir, Beresford, Miller, and Armstrong.I will fault Robert Evans and Alan Ladd as producers to allow an Australian to so dramatically change the fascinating Lee Falk concept on the screen! "},{"Title":"For a Night of Laughs","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok so it isn't Oscar material but this movie is great!  It's full of color, fun, action, great dialogue and some very surprising actors and actresses! This was one of Katherine Zeta Jones' first American movies, and Billy Zane is just an attractive man.  If you want a good time with popcorn and some laughs, this is a movie you don't have to use your brain in, just watch, giggle, and have a great time! "},{"Title":"interesting(!)","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I only bought this film because my favourite actress, Kristy Swanson is in it.  The Storyline is really bad, but I still like it because it's funny. Some people might call it a bit naff, and I suppose it is in some ways. The Phantom is kind of a copy of Superman and Fraser from Due South, (they both have a wolf, and like saving people and they kind of have the same character.)  I am still debating over whether to get the soundtrack, because there was only one bit of music I liked.I think you definitely have to watch this film more than once to like it. "},{"Title":"So Bad It's GOOD!","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Phantom has a warm place in my heart because of its modesty and faithfulness to the original comic strip. It might be mistaken as a Direct to Video style low-budget slug fest made from mediocre talent - but I think it deserves a second look.  First - it is in a very difficult genre. For my money there has never been (and probably never will be) a good film adaptation of a Comic Book Super Hero. There have been close calls, but all have ultimately fallen short of the mark - Why, is a good choice for a discussion, but not here. The Phantom is one of the closest, most satisfying adaptations I've seen.Like the Lee Falk comic book, this film has a unreal look. It's sentiments and dialog are as trite and primary hued as the simple look of the original four color printing of the comic. It simply is not possible to pull off the story of a white Tarzan hero in a purple unitard scourging to jungle of poachers in a realistic fashion. There were inherent/dated difficulties with the source comicbook, and they have been lovingly recreated in the film. The dialog is bad, but on purpose, also set to match the old style - and it does require a certain amount of talent for Billy Zane to pull off a line like No Smoking in the Phantom Cave! The villians are not just evil, but hamfisted evil, or arched-eyebrow evil.The action is modest, mainly fistcuffs and horseback riding, but it is good. It is reminiscent of the time when simple stunts were the staple of the adventure film, or the western.For those who enjoy a hipper, edgier post modern super hero, I recommend viewing THIS film, then watching the collected episodes of Peter Chung's Phantom 2040 an animated continuation of the same narrative, about a dystopian future where The Phantom (a grandchild of the same lineage) fights against global corporate eco-terrorists.  "},{"Title":"Williams is no treat.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Lee Falk's purple tight wearing tarzan wannabe comes to the screen with mixed results. Billy Zane gives his all in the title role. And he ain't half bad in the part. Unfortunately, Treat Williams hammy performance as baddie Xander Drax virtually destroys any attempted credibility this movie trys to build up. The plot concerns the efforts of Drax to acquire three mystical skulls which when combined with a mysterious fourth skull will grant the possessor ultimate power. The film does have its moments but tends to sag whenever William's is on camera. Yet even during its down moments The Phantom maintained my interest thanks to the jaw dropping beauty of Catherine Zeta-Jones and her collection of skin tight apparel. "}{"Title":"So bad it was funny!","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now, mind you, my wife and I decided to see this flick the day we returned from our honeymoon - so we were in a good mood going into the theater.  And laughed many times during the movie.I'm a huge Raiders of the Lost Ark fan and thought the Phantom would have a similar tone - I was very wrong... Having not seen it in a few years, I can't bring up specific examples except for the forced chemistry between the Phantom and the love interest and the terrible over the top acting by Treat Williams.  What made me laugh the loudest was when the credits began to roll, the lemmings in the theater were CLAPPING - it was at that moment that I realized I was destined to become a screenwriter....Enjoy the movie - if you would like a good laugh!  "},{"Title":"Almost works","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Shades of Indiana Jones except the guy wears a purple skin tight suit. Would you have liked Raiders if Indy had worn a purple suit?  I liked the dialogue.  I liked the acting.  The stunts were OK.  The plot was OK.  The purple suit though...it may look fine in a comic book but it looks kind of silly on film.  At least when they made Batman, they turned the costume into bulletproof armour.  "},{"Title":"How come it explodes/","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The plane crashes into a cliff and explodes in a great ball of fire. The only problem is that the reason it crashes is because it has run out of fuel. So what caused the fire? This about sums up the movie. There has to be some credibility in even fantasy movies such as this. The Phantom is an eerie, brooding and pitiless character who has such strange and dreadful powers that he is literally a supernatural being and one who is essentially so unearthly that mere human beings would be transfixed with terror in his presence. Yet in this movie he comes across as being a bit of a numbskull - the lights are on but there is no one home. "},{"Title":"Another bad comic-based movie","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think they just should keep The Phantom to the comic magazines and don't mess with him in a not so good movie like this one. I know that the The Phantom's creator and author, Lee Falk, was satisfied with Billy Zane in the role. Well, I'm not. Zane isn't any macho at all, and that's what The Phantom is all about. Regardless of who had played the lead role, it couldn't have saved this film. The story about the skulls of Tuganda isn't a good one at all, and in my opinion there's too much fantasy/adventure involved in it. The action scenes also tend too suck, especially the fighting scene at the Singh's headquarters in the end. "},{"Title":"This movie was so bad it was good.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie seems to have campy dialogu likes 1960's Batman, But it does have great action, thats similar Indiana Jones. But this movie does have bad acting from it's supporting cast namely Kristy Swanson, James Remar and the then unknown Catherine Zeta Jones. But it's Billy Zane's charismatic charm has the hero in purple tights, and Treat Williams cool but evil performance has the main villian slightly saves the movie from extermination. Although The Phantom is no Spider-Man and really no Batman, but he is alright.  "},{"Title":"Good Competition for Worst Super-Hero Film Ever.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Gosh what a mess. The Phantom is another super-hero film about a super-hero that few ever knew about before this production and that was a good thing. Billy Zane stars as the titled character, a man who is the 21st successor to a family of men with super powers who come from Bengalla. He travels to 1930s New York City to stop madman Treat Williams from obtaining three ornamental skulls that would give him super powers of his own, powers that would be used to take over the world. Kristy Swanson is boring as the love interest. In the end a then-unknown Catherine Zeta-Jones and her highly sexual outfits and antics are the main points of interest here. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not so great adaption...","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  of the comic book.  I read the phantom comic every week and I remember the issue the movie was based on.  They could have done much better, like casting Billy Zane, that was a mistake.  A bigger mistake was the suit, I don't think anybody could take the Phantom seriously with that suit in the movie(it made him look a little fruity, but that's just my opinion). Anyone who is a diehard fan of the comic and has also seen this movie will say it does not pay homage to the phantom and is in't even one-tenth as good as comic book.  But Catherine Zeta-Jones was good enough for her first American movie.  She was the only good thing about the movie.** of ***** "},{"Title":"Adventure or misadventure?","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well.. a lot has already been written about this movie.. and my review would be a bit dated... As an ardent fan of The Phantom since my preschool days (late sixties), I was pleasantly surprised to see the movie in my local video library. But the movie in itself was a great disappointment. Perhaps my expectations were too high. Anyway... I feel that a lot of wacky lore was introduced in the film. Even the dress of the Phantom was changed and characters such as Guran were totally goofed up. It appears that Falk was very satisfied with the film. OK. His gain is our loss. A total failure in my opinion.. excepting, perhaps, CZJ as Sala. And the allusion to magical powers in skulls was pure crap. Zane's eyes showed throughout the film, which is absolute taboo in Phantom lore. But what the hell.. even showing the Phantom's face is taboo.. and we had Zane grinning, cowl-less, every five minutes. Guran, in the film, was a teenager, a sort of colonial-type majordomo, wearing a headgear like a turban.. he is actually middle-aged and wears a basket type hat... The CO of the Jungle Patrol was on friendly terms with his Commander - another taboo. The Rope People were OK.. It would have been better to mention the Llongo, Wambesi and Bandar... the most prominent tribes in Phantom lore. I feel that if some of Falk's original stories had been taken up for the movie... and no deviations had been made.. the movie would have looked at least 'authentic'.. as of now, such blatant deviations left a sour taste in the mouth of the uninitiated viewer, as well as for the ardent fan of the Phantom... "},{"Title":"too many negative aspects","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You can kind of think of this film as Indiana Jones meets the Jungle Book or something. Zane is a decent lead, but the film plays out like an extended television episode. The action scenes are hokey, the special effects aren't really that special, and the dialogue that bad guy Williams recites makes him seem more like a frustrated computer geek. It isn't totally unwatchable, but it isn't very enjoyable. 1/4 "},{"Title":"So much potential, so much disappointment","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie was based on the Phantom comics character. I believe the character predated Superman and Batman and happened to be one of my favorites. The movie has too many problems in my opinion, the first one is that the script was too campy. While it is true that a movie like this cannot be taken seriously, this one just basically gave up. The action sequence were among the worst action sequences ever. Basically it lacked energy. Some more quick cutting by the editor would have liven things, up this film certainly could use it. The soundtrack has that Raiders of the Lost Ark wannabe sound, but it too lack zest and zeal.Speaking of Raiders, this movie has a plot similar to Indiana Jones and The Temple of Doom. The villains are after three skulls with tremendous powers instead of rocks. Anyway, the plot wasn't that interesting and there's no tension as the chase towards the skulls go on. And why was he talking to the ghost of his father. As for the acting, well Billy Zane tried his best to be a hero but his Phantom was just not very interesting. Catherine Zeta Jones and Kristy Swanson as the villainess and the love interest fared a little better, but Treat Williams was miscast as the villain, Dennis Hopper playing any villain is a lot better. Mr. Williams can be a great villain but his villain in this movie is not over the top enough (the right way to play a villain in this kind of movie.)The one good thing about this movie is the set designs and the locales where the Phantom has his cave were incredible to see. (Thailand I believe, a couple of the island remind me of The Man with The Golden Gun). Too bad the writing and direction of the film was a let down. "}{"Title":"Phantom - Movie that sucks (Old jungle saying)","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Phantom is one the oldest comics around and in essence he is a superman. But superman was from another planet, while the phantom is a white man living amongst the savages of, initially Borneo (in Indonesia) and then in later comics, Africa.His mission is to fight piracy and other criminal activity. Somehow he is stronger, faster and smarter than everyone else.This movie carries on the great racist tradition of the Phantom. He needs a wife so rather than look around for a local girl he must travel to the big city, fight some bad guys, return to the jungle, fight some pirates and do his best to get the girl.This movie also fails to really capture the essence of the character. He is in essence a vengeful ghost, hard and harsh with criminals. He should possess a wonderful physical character, like the true batman, with muscles on muscles.It just doesn't work. Not an awful movie, just a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Bad!!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was going into this movie not expecting a whole lot.  It looked kind of cool in the commercials, but it had a guy wearing a tight bright purple outfit in the jungle.  This is one of the many annoying things in the movie. Billy Zane (Titanic, Posse) stars as the Phantom a superhero in the jungle who wears a bright purple outfit and does a lot of good things to save people.  When the bad guy, played by Treat Williams (Deep Rising, The Devil's Own), decides to get together 3 ancient skulls that will help him to take over the world The Phantom decides to come to the city and save the world.  This movie was bad all the way through, the action was boring and Zane's performance is horrible in the lead.  Treat Williams manages to do OK as the bad guy, but he has been a lot better in many other movies.  I recommend this only if you need a nap. "},{"Title":"Well not that bad but not good either","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is really a strange one, to like this you first of all have to abandon you constant thinking of why there would be a hero in the Jungle in a pink suit (probably so people won't print his picture in the newspaper!!!) The only way to remotely like this is to get into the adventure feeling, as I did. Ok most of the acting is bad (somebody tried to copy the feel from Indy REALLY WELL DONE!!!!!), the fight scenes lame, and the stunts and effects are crappy. The adventure feeling makes up for it at times and saves it from being bad and makes it an average movie of the highest kind (a good average movie???? Huh, well I hope you know what I mean).The only thing exceptional about this movie is that it features Catherine Zeta Jones (soon to be Catherine Zeta Jones - Douglas). She acts very good here as the 'bit..' and was I liked her a lot (sorry I just dig bit..y women and female villains as Xenia Onatopp (Famke Jannssen) and Electra (Sophie Marceau) from Goldeneye and The World is not Enough respectively). Plus I dig them even more if they are as pretty as those and bring a little sexuality into the movie. Catherine Zeta Jones was the only flash of light here and it was a delight to see her (a pity such a woman digs old guys but Mr.Douglas, I'm happy for you as I'm for Mrs.Jones I'm just a little envious of you, but what guy isn't!!!!!!!!!)5,4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This should have been so good!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Phantom should have been a great film.  It's based on one of the greatest adventure strips of the newspaper comics, one beloved the world over.  It had a decent budget and promotion; but, somewhere the film went south.Billy Zane is OK as the hero, although a bit bland.  Kristy Swanson was forgettable as Diana Palmer, Treat Williams was more annoying than villainous, and only Catherine Zeta-Jones was memorable.  In fact, the film should have stuck with her as the villain.I can forgive the suit, as it is part and parcel of the strip, although I wish it had been more faithful.  Still, it looked better than most.  The purple color was basically to help the character to stand out on the comics page.  Early color separation processes were primitive, and bold colors stood out better.  In fact, the suit was more of a reddish color, at fist, before purple became standard.The film touches on the history of the Phantom well, and Patrick McGoohan was a nice touch as the ghost of the Phantom's father. (Kind of ironic, as the Phantom is known as The Ghost Who Walks!).  It's the villains that really kill the film.Treat Williams never seems that much of a threat, and the Singh pirates are barely in the film.  Catherine Zeta-Jones and her air pirates are by far the most interesting.  Had the film focused more on their battle with the hero, it would have been light years better.As a lifelong fan of the comic strip, I was so disappointed in the film.  Even the old movie serial did a better job than this. "},{"Title":"tries but fails","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Set in the 1930s comes this vivid but goofy, derivative comic book adaptation which chronicles the Phantom, a ghostly, purportedly immortal hero who's roamed the African jungles for years thwarting oppression and evil. His latest challenge leads him to New York City where he takes on a greedy and imperious tycoon (Williams) who's trying to retrieve powerful ancient skulls that will make him unstoppable. Forgettable, jerry-built Indiana Jones tale has adequate set design and creative special effects, but suffers from mediocre action scenes, uninteresting characters, and corny dialogue. Wants to capture that rousing, old-fashioned sense of adventure, but it lacks an engaging hero and the execution is flat. ** "},{"Title":"Okay Movie","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I`d never heard of the comic book character this film is based on , so right away you have the problem of bringing a little known superhero to a mainstream audience . THE ROCKETEER flopped at the box office while 2002`s biggest box office hit was SPIDERMAN - The point being if you`re going to make a blockbuster based on comic book heroes base them on well known onesOn its own I found THE PHANTOM to be as I`d expected  Entertaining , fairly dumb and ever so slightly sadistic . But I couldn`t help feeling it came out ten years too late . In the mid 1980s following the success of the Indiana Jones films cinemas were deluged by similar type films like THE GOONIES and ROMANCING THE STONE . Perhaps if THE PHANTOM had been released in 1986 it would have made a bigger impact . The production values are fairly good except for the casting of Billy Zane who makes a bland superhero and Catherine Zeta Jones who makes a bland villainess ,  but it`s fairly good fun if there`s nothing else on the other channels    "},{"Title":"The Seventh Son","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.These films are all about the art. If you get that right, all of the ancillary silliness turns  into support instead of irrelevance. So many of these fail in the art. `The Shadow' and `Daredevil' succeed where `Dick  Tracy,' `Spiderman,' `Superman,' and several of the Batmen fail. `Popeye,' and the  second Batman are special, interesting cases.Here, the original comic posed a world of near-magic, something between an R L  Stevenson magical fiction and the ordinary superheros of the day. The mix of tribal  magic and industrial determinism was the whole point. The white man's burden,  softened by a romanticized notion of natural purity.This has more to do with the yearning behind the creation of the Boy Scouts than by  romance or adventure.But the movie turns it into a jungle version of Buck Rogers.If you wish to get value out of this, watch it back to back with `CQ,` which is about the  very same thing as the comic about how film transmutes that romantic purity into  something that has to be handled differently than in a comic because it overlaps with  reality. In other words, `CQ' works because it is about the phenomenon that makes this  film fail. Zane stars in CQ in precisely the same role as here.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Worst Comic-Based Movie Ever!","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I work in a video store (I won't mention which one) and I had customers recommending this movie to me. I regret that I paid them any attention. I thought the all-star cast -- Billy Zane, Kristy Swanson, Treat Williams, Catherine Zeta-Jones -- along with the interesting story of the Phantom comic books would make for a great film. I was very wrong. Each star gives his or her worst possible performance ever, and the story was simply dull. I kept waiting for any moment of truth, any spark of ingenuity, but by the time the movie was finished I had found nothing worthy of my attention. And someone please tell me why Billy Zane had a ridiculous smirk on his face throughout the entire length of the show?? I thought maybe he was in on an inside joke and just didn't feel like sharing the humor. Even if you're a die-hard comic-book fan or a Phantom fan, do not rent or purchase this film. It will most certainly be a waste of your time. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie of all time!","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is not just the greatest comic book adaptation super hero movie of all time... it is the GREATEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME! If I could give it give more stars I would. First of all, the acting genius of Billy is unmatched. Keyton sucked as Batman. Reeves sucked as Superman. Affleck was not too bad as Dare Devil. Its about time Hollywood gets a real actor. The script can only be described as genius. The special effects blow any other movie of its kind away. The only thing that makes this movie slightly less than perfect is Catherine Zeta Jones. She doesn't do the role justice. I would have chosen perhaps Cameron Manheim or Kathy Bates in her place. This movie also inspired me to get a wolf and a horse. I highly recommend this movie to fans of other classics as Quigley Down Under, Double Team, and Wild Wild West.SLAM EVIL! "},{"Title":"Not what Lee Falk had in mind","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I dare to say that this is not really what Lee Falk had in mind. It's not that bad, really, there are moments that work pretty well. But it's far to much of a comedy. I have always regarded The Phantom to be kind of a serious super hero adventure. There aren't many jokes in the originals, and this film is far to fun to bear resemblance.Billy Zane is fairly well cast as Kit Walker, the ghost who walks, he has the right looks and the right state of mind to do the job.The story itself is almost an Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom spoof. There are some elements that are almost exactly the same, and why not? I'm not that bothered, it's just that it's the same era (1930s), the same setup and almost the same object of the villains attention (the skulls - the stones).Also, a thing that REALLY bothered me - I can't let things like these go - it the fact that near the end, when the bad guys fly to the island where they'll find the third skull, they make quite a trip with that old plane. The island is clearly somewhere in Indonesia, but yet they fly from New York to this place without stopping. Obviously, because I would bet that the Phantom could find better ways of getting there without having to cling to the outside of an aircraft for at least two days.But it's OK. I didn't take it so seriously anyway... "}{"Title":"The Phantom 3/10","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The phantom. Miriam-Webster's dictionary defines it as something (as a specter) apparent to sense but with no substantial existence. If only the same could be for this movie.Billy Zane (Billy Zane? The one who hasn't done really anything since Titanic) plays The Phantom. Clad in the worst costume for a super-hero ever (tight purple suit, belt, face mask), he lives in a forest. He fights supposed bad guys. Even ones who just get in his way, such as police officers. Along with his horse and his dog Devil (who disappears and reappears many times), he attacks grave robbers. But I wouldn't call him a superhero.Xander Drax (Treat Williams) is a multimillionaire type who wants to collect three skulls to get power. Of course! So simple. After the Phantom lets them narrowly escape, he goes after Drax to make sure he doesn't get the other two skulls. So far so good, right? Wrong.Diana Palmer (Kristy Swanson) is someone who knows Drax. Somehow she gets involved. Wow. Great character developement. So many characters come and go, how are we supposed to remember who and why they are?The Phantom is plagued with problems. First is the improbability factor. The Phantom jumps from a plane (that moves up and down without anyone touching it) onto a horse that seems to be running faster than the plane. As soon as the Phantom gets off a bridges with an overturned truck on it (that, for some reason, is stuck in place without any supports), the truck falls down and lands in water, causing a big explosion. Somehow he makes volcanoes erupt, causing an island to blow up. After almost killing the Phantom with a sword, the person decides to use a switchblade. Catch my drift?The script is very lacking. First, no characters are developed, they just come and go. At the end, when the Phantom defeats the bad guy (oops...just gave away the surprise ending!), he uses his cunning. That's the only time. And how many superheros use guns? The script, like the rest of the movie, is laughably bad. There is opportunity in chaos. We'll be fish food! Sounds like advanced writing to me.The acting...where to begin? Zane doesn't really do much, since because of his costume he can have a stunt double do most of his worki. You can tell when Zane is actually in the suit because the acting is poor. Swanson, which is a name I rarely hear, overacts and mixes emotions and actions. Williams is decent, but is too over-the-top and tries too hard to be sinister. Catherine Zeta-Jones, as one of Drax's assistants, is serviceable. She actually is a good action star.The music tried to make it an adventure movie, in case we forgot this is what it is trying to be. It turns into a violent swashbuckler at the end. Its ending, which tries to wrap it up, even though we got it halfway through, is predictable and stupid.The Phantom is very stupid, with misfires everywhere and only OK acting, which is its only saving grace.My rating 3/10Rated PG for action/adventure violence and some mild language.  "},{"Title":"Oh so sleepy","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Catherine Zeta-Jones was in this movie?  I guess if I had known that at the time, I might have stayed awake long enough to see her!  Do yourself a favor put on a big purple costume and run around in the jungle for two hours--it's time better spent than watching this dull movie. (I will qualify that by saying I'm not a Billy Zane fan, and I was never into The Phantom comics.) "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There's not alot to say about this film...other than it's just plain poor. The story is poor, the sets are poor, the writing is poor, and the acting is POOR. Billy Zane, not the greatest actor, is awful in this movie. I've seen him in other films before and he did okay, but he must have needed the money to pay some bills. He seems to be sleep walking through the whole thing. Kristy Swanson, who usually helps any film with her looks can't save The Phantom. Her acting too, is bad. I grew up reading The Phantom comics and was really looking forward to the movie, but I was completely disappointed. The worst part of the movie though..was it made me poor. I spent money to see it at the theatre. "},{"Title":"Darkness awaits to rule the world.","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Set in the late 1930s, Lee Falk's comic-strip superhero The Phantom(Billy Zane)musters his mortal efforts to stop a madman(Treat Williams)who wants to rule the world. Sets and photography are very interesting; but of course the story is too predictable even for a fantasy world. Also in the cast are Kristy Swanson and the always beautiful Catherine Zeta-Jones. Zane is not too shabby as a superhero defending honor and slamming evil. Of course the Phantom's outfit is more comical than impressive. Put your brain in neutral and enjoy the fantasy. "},{"Title":"A second rate film about a second rate superhero","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Every so often a superhero emerges from the pages of a comic book and onto the big screen in the hope to repeat the massive success of Superman and Batman. Unfortunately this one gets off on the wrong foot by choosing a hero who is virtually unknown and rather dull anyway. A pre-Titanic Billy Zane is the superhero in question The Phantom. He is the latest descendant of a long family line of men who have taken up the mantle as the hero to fight crime etc. etc. with Patrick McGoohan making intermittent appearances as the ghost of his father. Treat Williams is a Howard Hughes type villain looking for three magical skulls to take over the World. Will our hero be able to stop him? Erk! The film's main problem is that The Phantom himself is more fop than hero riding around on a white horse in a purple lycra suit and mask with two pistols as his weapons. Call me crazy, but all this just isn't as heroic as Superman flying to rescue to stop an avalanche, or Batman using one of his various cool gadgets to stop The Joker. The film also doesn't know where its convictions lie. It isn't funny or self-mocking enough to be enjoyed as camp, nor is it serious enough to top Batman or Robocop in the darkly heroic stakes. There are a few action sequences, although nothing is very exciting and it will probably appeal to (undemanding) children most. However there is no disguising that this is one of that this is one of those projects that the studio doesn't really care about, suggested by the brief running time and by the casting. Zane and Catherine Zeta-Jones have gone on to bigger things, but in 1996 they were not big stars and surely there are better villains than Williams around. The script also, is far too brief. Zane's romance with Kirsty Swanson never really catches fire and his secret identity as Kit Walker is certainly not as vivid as Clark Kent or Bruce Wayne. Director Simon Wincer handles things well. Although his visual style doesn't convey a sense of period, he keeps things going at a brisk pace. It's just a shame he wasn't served with better material and a bigger budget. "},{"Title":"Tragically bad","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Don't see this movie....it was horrible!!! No one should have to put themselves through this,  Honestly, it was that bad.  My dog became suicidal after seeing this movie.  Took us hours to talk it down off the roof.  Performances-horrible; Direction-non existent; Production values-nil; Music-highly strung cat. SHOCKING! "},{"Title":"When is MST going to use this?","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I dunno... lemme see... sparking trees... a horse that runs as fast as a flying plane... a plot that my 10 year old brother could have written better. It was a terrible movie and the only joy I got from it is that whenever I see anyone that I saw the movie with, we can all get a laugh from the sparking trees. "},{"Title":"really bad movie","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is a really bad movie..  they have only made the movie by  looking on picture and not read it. the worse thing is he show his face  for every one. and its lots more bad thing`s  in this movie.....  "}]