[{"Title":"Great Documentary","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"60 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll admit that I've never been too crazy about documentaries.  For one thing, I think that they are generally biased and you are only seeing what the film-makers want you to see.  Now, I watched Paradise Lost for several reasons.  One, I've always been intrigued by peoples' ignorance and I'm still amazed at how quick they are to point a finger at something they know nothing about. Several years ago, I remember this story being all over the news, and the way it was presented then, it was very easy to believe that these three outcasts were the killers.  I've been through West Memphis numerous times since the killings and I still get the chills everytime I pass by the Blue Beacon truckwash.I sat down to this three hour film with a pretty open mind.  While the film doesn't really answer any questions, it does bring a lot to mind and never takes sides on whether the boys did or didn't do it.  That's what I admire about the film-makers.  They managed to stay almost completely neutral, no matter what their feelings or opinions may have been on who the actual murderer(s) were.Watching this movie is scary.  I've polluted my mind over the years with just about every junk-horror movie that I could find and nothing has given me that icy feeling quite like this has.  I've seen it three times now and it never loses its impact.For those who don't know, here's the story  In West Memphis, three young children are found mutilated in a patch of woods just off the interstate. For no real reason whatsoever, three nonconformist teens are brought to trial, one of which has an I.Q. that is somewhere in the 70s.  When he gives a very phony sounding confession, the trials begin with absolutely no other evidence to prove that the boys are guilty.  Throughout the film, we meet each of the deceased boys parents, the defendents, and the defendents' families.  Most angry of all are the parents of the Byers boy who was murdered.  Now, before I get started on the step-father Mark Byers, I really want to say that I can totally empathize with the guy and his rage is completely understandable.  However, what I really can't get past is the guy's bizarre behavior and the impression that he left me with. The guy takes up a lot of screen time.  I know that the guy is a jeweler by trade and acting may not be his thing, but this is a DOCUMENTARY and while watching him, on more than several occasions I got a little confused. Yeah, the guy has some mental problems, he's on numerous medications, he's suffering from a brain tumor and he's going through some major grieving. But why does he act like he's been watching TOO much WWF?  His lines are straight out of a BAD movie and if this is how the guy really is, I'm staying the hell out of this guy's way.  Throughout the film there are several subtle (or not so subtle) indications that he may be a suspect. The fact that he gave one of the film-makers a bloody knife as a Christmas present more than proves that the guy is a little off his rocker.  He even admitted to having beat the child the day that he was murdered.Remember, there is absolutely NO physical evidence to pin on the accused and the only thing that got them there was a false confession given by a legally retarded teenager who had been interrogated for hours.  Oh, and did I mention that his story KEPT changing?  Listening to Jesse Misskelly, the time that the boys were murdered takes place all over the clock.  Once, he states that the boys were murdered in the A.M. hours, then during broad daylight, then at night. I don't get it.  It didn't matter to the jury. Two of the boys still got life sentences and the other (Damien Eckols) got the death sentence. His crime is that he had a fondness for wearing black, had a bad haircut, and a slight interest in Wicca...Not a whole lot different from myself.  Anyway, there is also mention of another mysterious person who made an appearance in a Bojangles restaurant restroom, covered in blood. Oh yeah, that is another issue that is barely mentioned, and then dropped.After seeing this movie, I was still terribly confused and my questions were still unanswered, but I guess that is the sign of a good documentary.  I'm really glad that the film-makers stuck with the facts and never let their opions get in the way of making the film.  The sequel is also very good, but still leaves nothing answered.  Now, it's been several years since the first time I watched this but the boys are still in prison, still trying to get out.  I reccomend this film to anyone who has ever been criticized for their appearance.  It'll make you realize just how lucky you are, while questioning the justice system at the same time.   "},{"Title":"A Modern Tragedy","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"56 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The question at hand in the film Paradise Lost is not as much did these three teenagers commit this heinous act, but rather was there enough evidence to convict them for the murders. The answer, presented by material in the film, is an unflinching no. There was only speculation and rumor to convict the three.The film's strengths are that it doesn't preach, at least not in an overly wrought narrative, and it contains intimate moments with the accused and their families as well as the families of the victims. Being a victim of a violent crime to something of this degree I understand the pain and confusion of the victim's families. What is hard to understand is the bloodlust and need for revenge and retribution that immediately takes hold of them. The victims' families are the most terrifying aspect of this film. At one point the mother of the Byrnes child says in a hateful and spiteful tone I hate them... I hate them and the mother's that bore them.Is there anything wrong with being hellishly angry with someone who has butchered your child? No, quite natural really. But the point of this film is that judgment was passed on these kids long before the trial even started. I imagine the Bible belt is a very scary place to be raised in... I'll have to ask Brad Pitt what he thinks about it some time.On the issue of the prosecution. They had next to nothing. A very questionable confession from a terrified kid, Jessie, with a 72 IQ, hearsay from a couple of kids who claim they heard Damien bragging about the murder but have no proof, a knife found behind Damien's house which doesn't match the wounds on the bodies, and the assertion that because Damien read about Wicca, he must be a Satanist.To look at the three kids is also an interesting aspect of the film. Jessie, a very small and slow kid seems a bit lost in the world. His IQ is low but he has no previous records of any type of behavior that would associate him with murder. Jason speaks in short breathless words and seems also to suffer from a low IQ. Damien is the key to everything in this film though. The defense made the key mistake of letting Damien take the stand for two reasons. The first reason is that Damien appears to have ADD and after the first 10 minutes of questioning he sort of fades away and answers in bland yes and no's. The second reason, and the most important, is that Damien is obviously extremely bright. Normally this wouldn't seem to be a problem but judging from every single person the filmmakers put on camera, smart people are hard to come by in that area of the world. Damien scared them.All of this adds up to the fact that there was not enough evidence to put these kids away and there were other, more sinister and shocking, suspects that needed to be pursued. The war rages on for the West Memphis Three and it is indeed frightening to think that they did it, and terrifying to think they didn't.  "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely haunting. This chilling account of murder and the search for justice will leave you open-mouthed and shocked for the tale is not a pretty one. Three eight year old boys are brutally slain (and there is graphic footage so this is not for the faint of heart), but the focus of the story is upon the three teenagers of this Arkansas town who are put on trial for the killings. And as the film unfolds you begin to wonder if the boys are truly guilty of this heinous crime or are being persecuted for being different in a town that locks different away. In the end, you are your own jury in determining the guilt of these black-wearing, Metallica-listening boys who didn't quite fit in. If you can stomach the upsetting scenes and the entire idea (which I admit put me off for a long time) you will find the film completely consuming. Unable to tear your eyes from the screen, the story and the boys who lived it will stay with you forever. Simply incredible. "},{"Title":"None is free as long as these three young men are imprisoned.","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely shocking and riveting from beginning to end.  A brutal murder of three young boys leads to the wrongful conviction of three teens who were fingered for the crime because the police and townspeople found them weird.  Two of the teens are currently (2004) serving life sentences, and one is sitting on death row! This documentary brilliantly unfolds the story of the tragedy in West Memphis through interviews with the murdered boys' families, the accused and convicted teens, and footage of the court trials. The directors remain unbiased and let the audience decide for themselves who did it, but there's no disputing that the police investigation was a travesty and that the West Memphis Three did not get fair trials--were found guilty before even taking the stand. Also check out the sequel Paradise Lost Revelations.  Be warned, though--both documentaries will make you want to scream with the injustice of it all, and rightfully concern you that despite an absence of any physical evidence linking three young men to a crime, and despite mounds of evidence indicating that the young men are innocent, the desire by influential individuals to convict won out over justice. "},{"Title":"disturbing documentary","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember watching this documentary when it appeared on HBO and being completly disgusted. This was a witch hunt. The trial of these boys was based more on their look and taste in music more than actual hard evidence. I grew up around this area and I know exactly what it's like to be a noncormist..you're automatically accused of being a satanist and associated with murders just because you look and think a certain way. Now I can't honestly sit here and say that these boys didn't do it..because I don't know..it's possible..and my heart tells me they didn't..but ya know i'd look like an ass if the evidence came up that they did. What disgusted me was the trial..and the assassination of the boys . There was no real concrete facts..just their lifestyle of music and fashion. The second one focused more on the father of the murdered children..all evidence pointed at him and away from the boys..just my opinion. This is a disturbing look at corrupted justice in the Bible belt.  "},{"Title":"Seriously, Do Yourself a Favor and Watch this film.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you have ever doubted that there are some serious injustices in the political system, you must see this film. This is a documentary about three teenagers who are accused of being murderers simply because they aren't conformists. They are accused of murdering three innocent children, despite there being no evidence, no witness testimonies, and not a single shred of a motive, reason, or cause. The three teenagers who are convicted are Jessie Misskelly, Jr. who is a mentally impaired young man, Jason Baldwin, who is a thin, shy, and slightly underweight kid, and Damien Wayne Echols, who is into metal music, wears black, and is part of the Wiccian religion. There are the three children who are murdered, Christopher Byers, Steve Branch, and Michael Moore. The opening sequences depict the findings of the bodies in the woods. Christopher Byers looked to have been beaten to death after his genitals were mutilated. Steve Branch and Michael Moore were suffocated. There is not a single drop of blood at the murder scene despite the fact that Christopher would have bled profusely if his genitals were cut off, and yet everyone seems to be extremely convinced, for some reason, that the murder of Christopher occurred in the woods. It's possible that Michael and Steven were drowned nearby, but there doesn't appear to be any sign of a struggle. The parents of these innocent victims seem hellbent on insuring that Jessie, Jason, and Damien did it, despite there being nothing to even suggest. There are rumors of them being seen planning the murders, but those don't have any real backing. Meanwhile people make up stories about Satan worshiping and that the murder of these three boys involved some sort of sacrificial ceremony. You have got to be kidding! Why on earth would people believe this stuff!!! The town of West Memphis Arkansas is blinded by their religious faith that they aren't seeing things in a reasonable and more realistic light. This film contains footage of absolutely everything. Once you see it, you can decide for yourself if they did it or not, but I don't see any connection. Sorry. "},{"Title":"Raises good questions, leaves others unasked.","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film left me with a bad taste in my mouth. Not that it was gruesome -- it is, but I've done research involving reading coroner reports, so gruesome I can cope with. It was the unanswered questions and the unasked questions.It seems so utterly implausible that a jury could have convicted any of the suspects that I wonder what the filmmakers did not show us. Specifically, I wonder about the fiber evidence, which was the only real physical evidence at all.I could only rate this documentary a 7 out of 10 because of the unasked questions and the evidence we were not shown. I would like to have come away from watching Paradise Lost with a clearer understanding of what those jurors heard and saw that led them to their verdicts. Mind you, I don't think those boys did it -- I think that even fiber evidence could have been too flimsy to convict them. But I wish I had been left convinced. "},{"Title":"Paradise Lost The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills (1996)","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I always believed that a case needed only reasonable doubt to find people innocent. Apparently I was very wrong. I am in no way claiming my support for the three found guilty, but I for one could never convict them based on this evidence. The film shows just how unstable people can be when faced with those that don't conform. I was amazed by how much I disliked the parents of the murdered boys. They ramble and scream about killing these three, already convinced of their guilt. They seem more unstable and threatening to me, and not just because their children have been murdered. No real physical evidence is brought up against the boys, whom should probably start training professional killers on how not to leave evidence at a murder site. I know for a fact that a lot of details were left out of this documentary, and the celebrity worship that has followed the accused since is a bit too much. However this film is terrifying. It shows that just because of the way you look, and what people say about you, can take away your entire life. Make sure to check out all the evidence for yourself. "},{"Title":"Beyond Deliverance","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Truth may be stranger than fiction, but the American courtroom is stranger, still.  For the two hours during which I've watched this film I've gained a valuable insight into the nature of the witch trials.  I feel powerless, as there is not much I can do to help these kids.  But perhaps there is a lesson in it for us, and everyone who has seen the film should have taken some mental notes.  First -- never name youself or your children 'Damien' -- especially if you live in the Bible Belt.  And, as a general survival strategy, do not be the black sheep of the local community.  There may come the time when your eccentric behavior alone will be used against you to sentence you to death. "},{"Title":"I wanted the rest of the story","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the spring of 1993 three pre-teen boys were murdered near West Memphis, Arkansas. This documentary focuses on the three young boys who were accused and tried for the murders. I had a lot of trouble with this film. One of the things that makes it unusual is that the filmmakers were given incredible access to most all the people involved, from the accused, to the legal teams, to family and friends, even to the judge. We are even given behind-the-scenes looks at defense strategy sessions. All of the participants agreed to be filmed. This special access is all well and good, but it is well known that people behave differently when they know they are being filmed and I question how much of an impact the filming actually had on the trial. Are we seeing people's real reactions, or are we seeing performances--the whole affair has the feeling of being scripted. This question of performance for the camera is particularly relevant for Damien Echols, the accused that the film concentrates on. In one scene we see him preening before a mirror. The step-father of one of the murdered children actually turned over a knife to the film crew that was ultimately submitted as evidence! It is not good when those reporting on a story become part of the story.The film is slanted toward making a case for the fact that the accused boys were wrongly convicted. I don't know how long the trials (one boy was tried separately) went on, but what we are given cannot be but a small percentage of what was presented to the jury. So many things were not covered that I began to feel that the biases of the filmmakers were dominating the proceedings. From what is presented I would not have been able to find the boys guilty beyond a shadow of a doubt, but I felt that I was not given enough information to make a definitive decision.So many questions were unanswered. It seemed clear that the murders took place in a location other than where the bodies were found. How far was that location from a road from where it would have been convenient to carry the bodies. What was the relationship among the three accused? It was stated that one of them had an IQ of 72; could that guy have been a good friend to the other two seemingly intelligent guys? Was he a good enough friend to be trusted to remain silent? Were alibis checked out? Was the evidence connecting the accused boys to the crime really as tenuous as shown? And so on.Out of respect for the dead shouldn't we have been told at least something about the victims? The only role they played was to have their horrible deaths exploited by the sensational trial, the media, and by the filmmakers. Instead of a reasoned narrative to provide initial background the audience is first hit with shocking footage of the crime scene where lay the three naked young bodies. I immediately began to wonder if the filmmakers were more interested in shocking us than in objective story telling. Later we are shown a close-up photo of the castration perpetrated on one of the victims--was that necessary?I thought the Metallica soundtrack set the wrong tone, totally at odds with the gravity of the events being covered. "}{"Title":"Small town America acting upon instinct","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Shocking, powerful, bizarre. This remarkable documentary by Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky which chronicles the murders and subsequent trials of three 8 year old boys may leave you buzzing for days pondering what may or may not have happened.The film takes place in the small Southern town of West Memphis Arkansas. There's an abundance of churches, the townspeople speak with thick southern drawls, and routinely answer questions with a brisk 'yessir'. The town is rocked one day in early May of 1993 when the slain naked bodies of three 2nd grade boys are found in a wooded area known as Robin Hood Woods. No one knows who did it, but an 18 year old outsider, Damien Echols, who has a penchant for wearing and dying his hair black as well listening to heavy metal music is brought in for questioning. It is not until a month later that a friend of Echols, Jessie Miskelly Jr. is also questioned which leads to a confession that Echols and another, Jason Baldwin, carried out the murders while Miskelly himself helped subdue one of the victims who tried to escape. The three teens are quickly arrested and the townspeople, especially the parents of the victims, are convinced of the three teens' guilt. Nevermind that the lone confessor has a low IQ and may have been forced into confession or that there is a complete lack of physical evidence. Justice will now be served, either by the court system or if need be, by they, the parents themselves.The prevailing sentiment here seems to be that, yes, the three teens have been falsely accused, and that the real killer may be the stepfather of one of the victims, one John Mark Byers. Byers is shown repeatedly throughout the film either quoting from the bible, chastising the devil,or hellbent on justice. But when he gives the filmmakers of the film a knife as a gift, a shadow of suspicion is cast over him, particularly since there is evidence of blood on it.I however have to say that the three suspects may not be so entirely innocent. The first thing of course is Jessie's confession. Now I know Jessie has an IQ of 72, and the record of his police interrogation is incomplete, but that IS his voice on that tape confessing that he was there and saw Damien and Jason attacking the boys. His lawyer wants to argue that all this was coerced, that Jessie was led throughout this entire confession. But I don't know that. Jessie never gets on the stand to testify. All I see from him during the whole trial is his head down in apparent shame, the way a dog does when it knows its done something terribly wrong. Add to this that one of the police interrogators, Bryn Ridge, testifies that Jessie indicated he had attended Satanic ritualistic meetings with Echols and Baldwin where animals were sacrificed. I don't see any cross examination refuting that, and that's some pretty damaging evidence going on prior to the killings.Jesssie is subsequently found guilty and sentenced to life plus 40 years. He offers no real response to the guilty verdict and is whisked away in a police car. A mother of one of the victims vows to mail him a skirt for his new home in prison, and angrily hopes he gets what's coming to him.A month later, Echols and Baldwin are tried for their part in the murders. Although Jessie is offered a reduced sentence if he testifies against the boys, he refuses to do so, apparently unwilling to lie in court in front of his stepmother. The prosecution doesn't have a whole lot to go on, but it seems that Miskelly's guilty verdict in itself is enough evidence against both. There are few things during this segment that points to the guilt of these two. When Jason Baldwin is asked what he would say to the families of the victims who thinks he did this, Baldwin stares at the floor in a loss for words, finally saying I don't know. An innocent kid might have said he felt bad...but had nothing to do with it.Then there is the damaging testimony from a Michael Roy Carson who indicates Baldwin confessed the crime in detail to him while they were in the juvenile detention center. Carson says that Baldwin told him he cut the boys penis off, sucked the blood, and put the balls in his mouth. Shocking and believable testimony. The cross examination from Baldwin's attorney is weak. Later we see a meeting with these lawyers discussing how they could discredit Carson's testimony, but it seems confusing and vague and never comes to light in court anyway.During his closing statement, the lawyer for Baldwin, Paul Ford argues that there's no physical evidence linking Baldwin to the crime, and that guilt by association is a horrible thing. He seems to be conceding that Echols actually did it, but Baldwin wasn't there. It's a weak argument. Everyone knows that Miskelly pointed to all three being there, and that Baldwin and Echols were always locked at the hip. Even still, there's no physical evidence linking Echols to the scene either.And what about that John Mark Byers anyway. While he's the type of guy I wouldn't want to be sitting next to in a bar after he's had a couple glasses of whiskey, he can't be that DUMB to have handed over the actual murder to anyone. Particularly to the filmmakers documenting the whole story in the first place.I think that the boys did it, but never really had a grasp of what they were getting themselves into. It's a stunning portrait of a small town America caught up in a tragic situation not knowing how to react except upon instinct. "},{"Title":"inspires frustration and ultimately, apathy","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"34 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite all the praise this documentary has received, I did not find it   very moving at all. Granted, it was a horrible crime, and the footage   of the three young victims' bodies was shocking and almost unwatchable.   But most of this film serves only to expose the extreme incompetence of   everyone involved in the case.     With regard to the wrongly(?) accused boys -- never have I seen three   innocent people put up such a weak, pathetic fight for their innocence.   Most of the time, they stare doe-eyed and slack-jawed in front of the   camera, seemingly uninterested in their own fates. Sure, these boys   were only 16-17 years old and very scared, but they seem to have no   intuition for survival whatsoever in this life-or-death situation. Any   realistic grasp of the situation eludes these boys completely -- they   behave almost as if they're playing a part in a movie. It is quite   possible, and perhaps even probable, that they are indeed innocent, but   they themselves do not seem to care, and so dear viewer, why should   you?    The overwhelming impression I get from these boys is that they lead   very boring lives in a very stagnant town, and they know that this   whole case is the most exciting thing that will ever happen to them.   They seem interested not in the issue of their guilt or innocence, but   rather in the surreal quality of their quasi-celebrity (in the end,   Damien waxes romantic over the notion that his name will become famous   in West Memphis as a synonym for bogeyman, scaring generations of   children to come). They are genuinely pleased with all of the attention   they're receiving -- not that they have much to say, but they're just   happy that someone is asking. "},{"Title":"These boys are guilty","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" As far as the film goes, it is well made and keeps you interested.**SPOILER** I watched this movie thinking that three innocent boys were found guilty of murder and was interested in finding out how that happened. By the end of the movie I was convinced these boys actually DID commit these crimes. First of all there was a confession, even though one or two details were not clear. Second, one of the boys admitted it to a fellow jail mate. Third, at the end of the movie, when they are found guilty, there is no emotion from them. As if they knew it was going to be a guilty verdict. Not the reaction of an innocent person, who would show some emotion. Asked one of the boys, what will you do if you are found innocent? and he said found innocent??? as if that thought didn't cross his mind, as he had confessed to the crime and he in fact WAS GUILTY.It's also despicable how they try to blame the father of one of the murdered children. They believe one man could overpower and control three eight year olds, rather than three teenagers doing it? If there is a flaw in our justice system, it's not that they were found guilty, but that they were set free. "},{"Title":"unwatchable due to absence of storytelling","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a big documentary lover and I watch them a great deal. I prefer a story from real life to a fiction movie. However despite its very intriguing content, this documentary is extremely unwatchable. Why? Because it is so amateurishly made. It is filled with too many unnecessary scenes (hence the 2h30min run time). It's a shame how bad it is. I was saddened by the events and was very eager to understand why but I turned this off after 25 minutes. It is so NOT fluent. It's dragging. I kinda got angry actually on how bad it is. If you want to watch a well-made documentary, I'd suggest watching Capturing the Friendmans. "},{"Title":"This was the worst documentary ever!!","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Three blood-thirsty child murders have been sent free, thanks to this one-sided propaganda piece. The whole notion that these three were the victims of small-town prejudices is nonsense. These three were not convicted because they wore black, listened to Metallica, or read Stephen King novels. That is patently absurd and is a huge insult to people in small towns. Consider the following things that this documentary conveniently omits1) Jesse Misskelley did not have just one confession, in which he admitted to murdering those boys. He had a total of FIVE confessions!! Including a confession where his lawyer was present and advised him not to. 2) Damien was not simply a misunderstood outcast. He was certifiably mentally ill and had been in multiple psych wards prior to this incident. He was into animal torture, setting fires, drinking human blood and had talked about his desire to kill his parents. He was prone to hallucinations and often had extremely violent thoughts. One psych ward had labeled him as a psychotic and took precautions so that he wouldn't injure other patients. Incidents at the trial where qualified psychiatric professionals testified to his mental state were omitted from this farce of a documentary.Please, I urge other readers to do further research into this matter. WM3truth.com is a good source to get started. "},{"Title":"These boys are guilty as sin!","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" First of all, the rating should be on the film and not anything specific it contains right so for that reason I give this one the lowest possible because it's a classic case of a bias idiotic perspective they view this case. Documentaries today is about twisting the truth rather than exposing it, the world is upside-down.So I'm 100% sure that these psycho teens committed the crime.Their defense was so apathetic, what teenager wouldn't cry, rage and just panic over the possibility of being convicted for murder if they had nothing to do with it. The one guy, the one with the black shark eyes even smirk, waves and seem a bit proud at times in and around the court room. The retard gave a statement where he confessed the crime and goes into details on what they did. This is the thing the film makers and the conspirators claim to be a false testament meaning that the police either force him to confess or that the police interrogate in such a way that the suspect are manipulated or tricked into confessing the crime. But why would this be even remotely plausible if the police on the tape question again and again about details if they police had planted the statement they wanted the suspect to say.Like at what time did you come there -at 7 or 8, before you said around 9 - yea, around 9 , so which is it, 7 or 8 or 9, -8 or 9 and it goes on like this. Say that the police had their estimated time frame for the murder at 8. Why would he Not stop asking when he said 8 but instead ask again and again like a honest cop asking to get a straight answer would. No no no! His statement was real. Guilty!You should instead question these film makers and those crazy nuts giving the murderers such support on at best equally unfounded evidence that they were innocent. The women that fall in love with killers is a classic too, do you really believe this broad is the exception?Hell no, these guys planned to kill and killed these children. "},{"Title":"Ignorance born from narratives","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I came to this expecting something more or less gratuitous, a ghastly backwoods crime along with some lurid mystery. It does open with the mangled bodies of children discovered by Arkansas police in the woods and we go on to experience the baleful place that surrounds this crime, ruled by a vengeful god.But centered on the trial that follows I was surprised to see something else, entirely more revealing about a larger ignorance and worthy of Herzog as a study on delusion.The events are troubling. Three kids were horribly murdered, three kids were arrested for it, based on dubious testimony from one of the kids; an undocumented 12 hour interrogation, questions guiding answers, a frightened kid susceptible to suggestion.The rest of the evidence is not much better, from circumstantial to ridiculous. A knife dug out near someone's home, pentagrams found on a book about Wicca, tied to that hysterical malarkey about satanic murders then sweeping the media.What we have plain and simple is a case of miscarried justice unfolding before our eyes in that courtroom. This is not to say (from just having seen a film) that the kids definitely didn't do it, we would be as dogmatic as the redneck prosecutors then, but that we are far and away from any certainty.It's basically a modern day witch hunt that we see, I mean, if you ever wanted to see how these things happened, it's right here, and this is 20 years ago in a first world country. It's also direct insight of how that hysteria with satanic cults started and was kept going.But it's the larger ignorance at play that fascinates me. The baleful ire of parents is understandable I guess. But how dismaying to see a fuddy daddy in his 60s with a mailorder diploma brought on to testify as expert on the occult? What are we to make of juvenile witnesses who come out to testify that the kids confessed to them? Or how the prosecution just presses on to get a conviction, acting like the matter is clear cut and simply comes down to evil, just because it says in their job description that they have to prosecute?So even more chilling than kids who can be grabbed and senselessly murdered in the woods just like that is the realization that lives can hinge on such ignorant storytelling, because this is meant to be the mechanism that restores clarity, and instead we have this dogmatic insistence on using stories to explain a reality that is complex, elusive and often beyond certainty. This is an even more blind ignorance, because it thinks of itself as justice and reason and doesn't need to hide its irrationality out in the woods but can take place in a courtroom in broad daylight with us watching.You'll see this in the film itself. The filmmakers cast an accusing glance on a step-father, why, because he acts weird. "},{"Title":"a portrait of a place at a particular time as well as a harrowing story of (in)justice","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" To begin with, at first when Metallica's opening chords for their great song 'Welcome Home (Sanitarium)' came up at the start of the movie - as the bodies of the three children being pulled from the site where they were discovered in the Robin Hood woods - I was taken aback. It seems a little much to put that music to these images, probably images that would work best without any music or a different theme. But it becomes clearer why this is used - there's an ominous, dark tone that the filmmakers (one of whom, Joe Berlinger, would go on to make a Metallica documentary), Metallica actually does the music for the movie (all those metal-music moments are them), and for Damien Echols this was the song that made his situation remind him of the most being stuck in a place where time stands still, no one leaves and no one will (as the song goes). Paradise Lost is the story of an insane situation, for both the parents of the victims (who think and/or know these teenagers are guilty, even before any facts are presented) and for the teenagers themselves (one of them is a 72 IQ).It would be one thing though if the film were just a true crime story, or a story of justice - or, it should be said injustice, since it's a thing that, perhaps after the fact or in hindsight one knows in 2016 the convicted killers were pardoned in 2011 after so much evidence that was tainted or botched and so on was revealed - but it's also a story of a particular place. West Memphis, Arkansas and its people are like another character, and the directors get some compelling footage and images from this part of the country where everything is just flat in the landscape sense, it looks the same at Christmas time as it does in the summer (it's kind of jarring to see all those decorations up with everything seeming to look the same), and Church is with a capital 'C' and many attend in order to ward off Satan. One of those is Mark Byers, a man who has quite a singing voice in Church and a helluva way with a pistol outside of it; see the scene where he talks about using the teenagers to shoot at with a pumpkin as his target.It's easy to see at first why tempers and passions would be so heated three young children killed but more to that, mutilated (some of the details are sickening), and left in such a way that brings up the occult. One of the things that makes this movie stick out, to a point where it's difficult to say that the filmmakers aren't balanced, is that they show the parents of the kids as much as the killers on trial - prosecution and defense get fairly equal time on camera, albeit as the trial goes along further for Baldwin and Echols the evidence points more to not guilty than guilt. Even if one watches it today and knows the outcomes of the trial (and what happened years later) there's so much compelling information and testimony and characterizations to go on; how Echols is on the stand; how Byers changes from one place (church, shooting at a pumpkin) to another (on the stand, with a brain tumor that may or may not be there); teenage girls who won't be on camera, leaving the filmmakers to get creative with their coverage; the families and people watching who can't take it; a moment with Echols and his baby in the courtroom.The film is long at 2 1/2 hours, but it never feels it, and the movement from one point in the case to the next becomes more disheartening as it goes along. The first part where Misskelley has his separate trial is hard enough to take (that involved the confession that was false) and is heartbreaking to watch; the second part is where the details in the case gain traction - this piece doesn't fit here, the reasonable doubt there, what happened with this piece of evidence that was *lost* - and in a way knowing the outcome makes it all the more tragic and captivating. I wish I had been there at the time to see this without knowing the results, and perhaps it would have made for a different viewing experience. As it is, Paradise Lost captures not just a court case or grisly murder, but a set of feelings and emotions in the air in that place and time rage, confusion, desperation, fear and disillusionment with the public and law enforcement and so on. It has staying power past being a typical, dark-envelope-pushing HBO documentary. "},{"Title":"more compelling than most Hollywood fiction","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1993 West Memphis, Arkansas, three young boys Christopher Byers, Michael Moore and Stevie Branch are kidnapped and brutally murdered. Three teen outsiders Jessie Misskelley Jr., Damien Echols and Jason Baldwin are soon taken in as suspects in a supposed satanic sadosexual murder ritual. Despite questionable evidence and questionable police tactics, the three are convicted with Damien getting death by lethal injection.Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky are functional documentarians. The film looks more like a TV news report from the 80s. It's gritty and raw. More than anything, it is the subject matter that is the most compelling. It's a fascinating case with exciting trial revelations and obvious injustice that is better than most fiction written in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A Case About Outsiders","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" A horrific triple child murder leads to an indictment and trial of three nonconformist boys based on questionable evidence.This film really paints a strong picture of the stereotypical backwoods Southerner. Were people picked for this purpose, or is this an accurate depiction of West Memphis? The religious views are very interesting, especially what people think devil worshipers do (and the fact they believe in literal devil worshipers).You have to love the fake doctor who testifies that black t-shirts and black fingernails are signs of devil worship. Having grown up in the 1990s and being one of those who wore black, I know exactly what it is like to be a target of that level of ignorance.This really brings the idea of Christian forgiveness to the forefront. Rather than forgive or turn the other cheek, these folks talk of revenge murder and defecating on graves. And they pass around rumors of testicles in jars.Were the West Memphis Three guilty? I have no idea. Probably not. But either way, this says so much about a community. "}{"Title":"Important and powerful documentary","Date":"23 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Powerful and thought provoking look at American justice, and how we treat those who are outsiders or 'different'. When three very young boys are found brutally murdered, and mutilated the town of West Memphis demands retribution and closure, and so, after some fruitless weeks of police work, the suspects become three teen-age boys, who listened to heavy metal, and the oldest of whom dressed (somewhat) Goth and was interested in Wicca. A strong indictment of how, at least some of the time in our justice system 'guilty until proved innocent' is the rule. That said, the film makes some serious miss-steps by not being clearer about some of the evidence it brings up, but never explores. For example, we're told early on by the filmmakers that all 3 boys had alibis for the night of the killing, yet we never hear about it again. Are their defense lawyers THAT bad, or were the alibis not solid? Two said they were home with their families, yet the families never mention being with them that night. Similarly, we are never told why the police picked up the first of the boys, a borderline mentally retarded kid, who clearly didn't know what was going on, for questioning. The implication was that the cops wanted an easy pliable target, but the issue is never explored either by the defense, or by the film-makers. In a 150 minute movie, there's no need for those kind of loose ends, leaving us to question whether we've seen a fair reporting of what went on, or if there really was more evidence against the kids than we're shown. Still a powerful and important examination of how we often rush to judgment, socially and legally. Recent history has shown this is far from an isolated case - people are sent to prison, even death row on flimsy or incomplete evidence, and by playing on a juries fears far more often then we would all like to believe. "},{"Title":"Not all lost in the sea of fog","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" On May 5, 1993, three second graders, Stevie Branch, Michael Moore, and Christopher Byers, were reported missing and were later discovered murdered and mutilated in a small section of woods in West Memphis, Arkansas. Soon after, three teenagers, Damien Echols, 18, Jessie Misskelley Jr., 17, and Jason Baldwin, 16, were arrested for the murders and put on trial.Why were they arrested? Because they were outcasts in a way. They were the strangest of the strange, and had been arrested in the past for vandalism and shoplifting. Misskelley was the first to be tried and interrogated, and with an IQ of about 72, it was safe to say the story would be jumbled and a little shaky. The actual confession from Misskelley, which we are grateful enough to hear, is full of inconsistencies (for instance, saying the murders were committed in the afternoon, then later in the evening). Miskelley was tried separately from the other two boys, and received life plus forty years in prison.The next trials were of Damien Echols and Jason Baldwin, whom were tried together. It seems Echols was tried on personality and interests more than hardcore evidence. Echols appears to be an intelligent young man who has developed a fondness for wearing black, listening to Metallica, and practicing the Wicca religion - a religion where one has love for the world and the environment.Paradise Lost The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills is an excellent journey through a suspicious case and three convicted men who may not deserve to be. What is truly astonishing is how much filmmakers Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky were allowed to film. They seem to have been present the entire trial, day in and day out for both. We get footage I'm not sure we're even supposed to see.The interviews with the parents of the boys are haunting yet understandable. One parent says that the day the boys die he will spit and release other bodily functions on their graves. He curses the day they're born and the mothers who birthed them, as well. The other parents are stunned and saddened, some not even feeling sympathy or sorry for the three boys of the tragedy. They are far too consumed with sadness, lost, and pessimism to care.One other thing the film does very well and without apology is it shows us the inner-workings of the legal system. The case seems to be judged entirely on subjectivity and first impression. If I were to see only pictures of the three boys, without hearing a word of them I'd probably believe they did commit the murders. After hearing their pleas I can't say that I do any longer.The most convincing boy is Echols. Baldwin rarely gets any camera time, and when he does, he speaks entirely in soft-spoken fragments, yet still projects believability to his claims. Misskelley is a big confusing in his statements, but it's understandable. Not only he is slow, but he's put under an immense amount of pressure obviously making it worse.I concluded Paradise Lost with three emotions in my system; confusion, frustration, and optimism. Confusion because of what just unfolded in front of my eyes. This is a very long documentary and makes you take a lot in during its two and a half hour runtime. Frustration because the legal system the United States provides claims everyone will have a fair trial, yet parts of the case seemed biased and judgmental. And optimism because I believe the appeals Baldwin, Echols, and Misskelley have requested will provide insight, answers, and perhaps hope for the youths.NOTE This marks my five-hundredth review. Glad it was at least a four star film.Starring Damien Echols, Jessie Misskelley Jr., and Jason Baldwin. Directed by Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky. "},{"Title":"Must see","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was really looking forward to watching this. I recently got a lot into documentaries, and I felt as if this one had something fascinating and unusual.This was filmed with what we call a great economie de moyens  it is denuded of many, many effects that documentaries commonly overdue breathtaking music, scenic shots, narration...Nothing here is meant to look better or worse then it is  everything is displayed in all its confusion, ugliness and nonsense. The directors worked hard to come out with a very objective movie. Although you understand that they are on Echols, Baldwin and Misskelley's side, they do not try to moderate the other side's pain and loss. If anything or anybody looks suspicious or even grotesque at some point of the movie, it is not because it was caused by the film makers it just happened that way.By reading reviews and comments over this movie, I realize that a lot of people unfortunately pick one side and speak badly about the other, as if there was good and evil in a debate like this one. Things are not that simple. It is absolutely understandable that after the murder of your children, you feel the desperate need to find someone to blame it on  the parents are not monsters for believing in the guilt of these three teenagers. And please, please try to see further than the end of your nose  most of the people that have interest in witchcraft do not practice it. A lot of murderers do not wear black and do not listen to metal music. A lot of non-murderers read Stephen King novels and wear Dimmu Borgir t-shirts.This is an intelligent movie that deserves to be watched intelligently and respectfully. "},{"Title":"The Power of Suggestion","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Throughout the course of this documentary (and the one that was compiled afterwards) we watch interviews where individuals are led to give a particular answer, either by another person, by an attorney during a trial, in conversations with media representatives or simply addressing the filmmakers' camera. Answers are always ones, the subject believes, what the listener wants to hear. It's true of the grief and rage expressed by the victims' families as well as the indignation and fear by friends and family members of those accused. No one seems authentic; everything appears calculated.And that very phenomenon winds up convicting 3 young men of murder and in one instance to death row. We're not told what led investigators to interview a young man who winds up confessing&#x97;unconvincingly&#x97;to the crime and implicating two of his friends. But once investigators focus on these three young men, very few facts (some flimsy fiber evidence and a knife found in a pond in proximity to one of the accused which isn't even tied to the killings) stand in the way of their conviction.While the cameras are rolling before the convictions, we can see that the accused stand very little chance of being acquitted. We don't see the jury nor are they interviewed, but there is so much hysteria within the community of West Memphis about the case, that we assume the jury is ready to convict even before they're seated. While there is no glaring misrepresentation by the defense attorneys, their efforts to combat the stigma of the horrible nature of the crime and the oddness of the accused are all in vain.I became uncomfortable with the focus placed on one of the family members of the victims, John Mark Byers. His neediness to be the center of attention may only be a combination of his grief, his mental limitations and a life where he most likely was marginalized and his son's death gives him a stage to perform on. And that's very much what happens with the accused. The community condemns them in the same way the filmmaker's allow us to condemn John Mark Byers, who has enough in his background to raise a thousand red flags. And we're left to wonder why the authorities never pursue him. My first thought is that the filmmaker's aren't letting us see all of his story. At one point (in the second installment of the documentary), Byers blurts out that his wife was murdered, when in fact the coroner has ruled the cause of death undetermined. But his slip of the tongue may only be that he's convinced his wife's death was due to the aftereffects of his child's murder, and he holds the 3 accused as if they not only are responsible for his son's death but also for his wife's through her grief (she apparently had a long history of drug abuse).Nevertheless, the film holds you. I watched parts I & II back to back. And while I was left wanting answers to very simple questions (what was the time between when the boys were missing and when their bodies were found, who located the bodies, were there any footprints, did they drown?&#x85;on and on), I did witness how people can be manipulated while at the same time feeling manipulated by these very powerful films. "},{"Title":"Who done it?","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky direct Paradise Lost 1 and 2. Both films revolve around a gruesome case in which three young boys were sexually mutilated and murdered in West Memphis, Arkansas. The incident occurred in the mid 1990s. Three teenagers, subsequently known as the West Memphis Three, were arrested for the crime. They were cleared of charges in late 2011.Much of both films focus on the travails of the three accused boys Jessie Misskelley, Damien Echols and Jason Baldwin. All three were loners; ostracised young men from lower income families. Jessie is portrayed as being mentally handicapped or slow. His confession and admittance of murder is explicitly portrayed as being the result of police coercion. Damien, meanwhile, is painted as a victim of police scapegoating and community witch-hunts. Locals &#x96; politically conservative and strongly Evangelical &#x96; believe him to be the member of a satanic cult. Our film-makers argue that Damien is simply a moody teenager who just happened to be fond of dark literature, heavy metal and a little edgy nonconformity, all of which, we are told, are unfairly stigmatized.The second film focuses on a West Memphis Three support group which believes the three accused teens to be innocent victims, falsely charged. It also focuses on John Mark Byers, the stepfather of one of the victims. Byers, the film argues, may actually have been the trio's killer.Entertaining (in a sleazy, somewhat sensational way), both documentaries are nevertheless relentlessly manipulative. This case cries out for a more dispassionate tone, instead we're coerced from the on-set. Damien's past detention at mental health hospitals/clinics are ignored, his past confessions and writings on wishing to commit slayings are ignored, flunked polygraphs are omitted, the past violence of all three kids are ignored, various details found at the crime scene are ignored, the second film knowingly overplays the significance of bite marks, Byers' dead wife and false teeth and fails to investigate the personalities behind the West Memphis Three support group, which may itself be a cult-like institution, enamoured by the photogenic, goth-like charm of Damien, who, while he may be entirely innocent, also demonstrates traits of psychopathy and manipulativeness. The point is, the film is exactly what it pretends to warn against it's selective, biased, has a one-dimensional agenda and deliberately withholds information. So what's the truth? Nobody knows. The fact is, everyone involved in this case (from the victims, to the suspects, to the police, to the courts, to the suspect's friends and relatives) has dark histories and/or behaved suspiciously during the event. With such muddied waters, it's almost impossible to determine exactly what really went on. The Paradise films bulldoze away all these far scarier nuances.Regardless, the film's central point is worthwhile the State of Arkansas has never convincingly demonstrated the trio's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. And yet according to 24 jurors, they did. Confused? The three suspects were eventually released with the odd court enforced proviso that they essentially admit that they might actually be guilty, even if freedom of speech laws grant them the arena to trumpet the opposite. Bizarre. It's a double helix in which both sides (the courts and the suspects) simultaneously mutually admit their guilt AND win their freedom from accusations. In other words, the trio are essentially saying we killed them, but we're free so we're innocent while the courts, equally paradoxically, are saying we railroaded them, but they're free now, even though we have enough evidence to commit them. This isn't justice, this is almost a form of psychosis.The first film is the more engrossing of the two. The second is filled with filler material, passages designed to pad its meagre running time. The second nevertheless captures well the toll the passage of time takes on our three victims, and contains an interesting subplot which focuses on a local lawyer who is convinced that the West Memphis Three were wrongly accused. Berlinger and Sinofsky released a third film, Paradise Lost 3, in 2011. A study by Ronald Huff, director of the Criminal Justice Research Centre, and professor of sociology Arye Rattner, estimates that in the United States alone, over 10,000 people are wrongfully convicted of serious crimes each year.8.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. Similar fare In The Name of the Father, The Wrong Man, The Hurricane, Conviction, A Cry In The Dark, the excellent Murder on a Sunday Morning, The Thin Blue Line and Capturing the Friedmans. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable perspective and access","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am amazed at the level of access the HBO filmmakers were granted in pursuing this documentary and its sequel. It is an extraordinary film, though some of the crime scene footage is not for the squeamish.I grew up in Memphis and was 13 when this grizzly triple homicide hit the news. My only perspective at the time was from the TV news and local paper, the Commercial Appeal. The media failed miserably to report the other side of this story. I was led to believe that these 3 teenagers were devil worshipers who ritualistically slaughtered 3 8-year-olds. In retrospect, that assertion was simply absurd. The people of Jonesboro became angry and confused and just wanted to lash out at someone. They were hungry for justice, even if it came at the price of prosecuting the innocent. Damien Echols, Jessie Misskelley and Jason Baldwin were the victims of misdirected revenge, convicted primarily on the hearsay of people who had long ostracized them for how they dressed. Rumor became hard evidence.After seeing this film, I am truly ashamed of the behavior of the police, the prosecution and the media. Three children were brutally murdered in 1993, and three more children were murdered by a system out for closure at any cost. I thought we'd left the Salem Witch Trials behind us. "},{"Title":"Terrifying and tragic","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" With the recent release of the closing chapter to the trilogy, Paradise Lost Purgatory (2011), and the Peter Jackson-funded West of Memphis (2012), it seemed a perfect time to re-visit the original HBO documentary that focused on the original trial of the accused now known as the West Memphis Three. Knowing now that they have only recently been released in 2011, the first thing that shocked me about the first film was realising it was made way back in 1996, and the trial was back in 1993. I was 8 in 1993, and I cannot imagine the torment that Damien Echols, Jason Baldwin and Jessie Misskelley, Jr. went through, spending almost twenty years in prison for a crime they did not commit. Paradise Lost is still as utterly sickening as it was when I first viewed it over five years ago.The question here is not if these three were innocent of this hideous crime - you can make your own mind up about that - but it is how can three teenage boys be sentenced to life in prison (and the death penalty for Echols) with not a shred of evidence against them? The irony is that these murders were believed to be the work of satanic sacrifice, but the West Memphis Three were condemned to a modern day witch-hunt by ignorant townsfolk terrified of them because they wore black and refused to blend in with the dungaree-wearing hicks in their dirt-poor neighbourhood. It seemed like everyone was against them, eager to lay the blame on something they simply did not understand. Judge David Burnett highlighted the need for evidence of a motive, so the answer was to get 'expert' testimony from a man with a mail-order PhD in the occult. When his lack of qualifications is highlighted by the attorney representing Echols, this is dismissed without a second thought.Film-makers Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky were granted unlimited access to the entire trial, so as a documentary, it is incredibly detailed. After the uproar this film caused, this access was quickly denied for the sequel, no doubt they were terrified that more shameful misconduct would be unearthed. Interviewers are given by the parents of the accused and of the three murdered boys (Christopher Byers, Michael Moore and Stevie Branch), and their emotion is laid out raw. Special attention is given to John Mark Byers, stepfather to Christopher, who handed the film-makers a hunting knife stained with blood as a present, which was quickly handed over to the authorities. Byers is a strange and often terrifying character, pumping bullets into a target and stating his wishes that he could do the same to the three boys on trial. It is easy to find yourself thinking that he must be the real killer, but as the trilogy of films progress, I learned that appearances can be deceiving, and that I was guilty of the exact same thing that led to the imprisonment of the West Memphis Three.This is powerful stuff, provoking more emotion than probably any other film I have ever seen. The atmosphere is extremely gloomy, right from the get-go when we see crime scene footage of the young boys hardened corpses lying naked in the woods. It certainly doesn't pull its punches, and Metallica's magnificent soundtrack, the first time they have ever allowed their music to be used in film, only adds to this. But ultimately, it's the story itself that proves to be the most powerful aspect. They were guilty from the moment they came to court - these sullen kids with their black clothes and long hair. Individuality doesn't go down well in the Bible Belt, it would seem. As each heavily flawed accusation flies at Echols, Baldwin and Misskelley, you must simply watch and grit your teeth. This is a truly terrifying story and also one full of tragedy, both for the young boys who were murdered and for the three that were the fall guys swept up by an almost neo-Nazi institution.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Reactionary medieval ignorance wins again in Dixie","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Few things really set me off like willful ignorance and unfortunately, this now classic Joe Berlinger doc about one of the greatest legal travesties of the 20th century gave me plenty of chances to reach for my blood pressure pills.All the jaw-dropping stupidity of the prosecuting attorney's non-factual arguments combined with the coercive tactics from their incompetent cop flunkies, layered with the basic terror rednecks seem to respond with at anything not layered in right-wing religious voodoo (in other words, things they can't understand) would be really hysterical if three children hadn't died because of it all, and three more teens (one being legally retarded) lives needlessly ruined.It's the subject matter that really carries things here. Berlinger's hand is steady but at times his camera seems a bit too eager to dive into trashy voyeurism. However, he makes up for it with some great investigative reporting techniques.The true horror, when you get past the dismembered bodies of the three second-grade kids, is the fact that the three so-called goths who allegedly killed them are drowned by a corrupt legal system with stacks of so-called evidence that is either implied, completely fabricated, based on here-say, or could never possibly have happened when simple logic and physics laws are applied.Meanwhile, reams of other, very plausible suspects accumulate and nothing is done to pursue them (yes, Mark, we're talking to you). Only a true Gomer would be so inept as to hand over a potential murder weapon to the documentary filmmaker who's following him around. But serial killers have been known to supply helpful evidence about their crimes.West Memphis is hell, says one of the West Memphis Three's relatives. It certainly is, especially if you don't tote no bible. "},{"Title":"Amazing Film","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paradise Lost The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills (1996) **** (out of 4) Heartbreaking, shocking and at times disturbing documentary about three teens (Damien Echols, Jason Baldwin and Jessie Misskelley, Jr.) put on trial for the murder of three 8-year-old boys in West Memphis, Arkansas. The documentary, running 150-minutes, digs into the pre-trial hype surrounding the case and goes all through the trial up to the conviction of the teens. PARADISE LOST THE CHILD MURDERS AT ROBIN HOOD HILLS is a film that got a lot of attention when it was first released but I missed out on it. In fact, I really hadn't paid too much attention to the case, although I had certainly heard about it. Going into watching this I was unaware of any of the evidence or lack thereof and I also wasn't certain about anything in the story. I'm not going to sit here and say the boys did or didn't commit the crimes but you really do have to wonder about the motives for them being found guilty. I do think the word evidence is very loosely used here and for the life of me I can't help but think things like heavy metal music and black clothes got them convicted. People are so terrified of those who dress in black yet I'm sure this redneck town had heard of Johnny Cash and I don't think they'd look at his clothes and see Satan worshipper. What impressed me most about the documentary is how open they are to all of the families involved. This includes the family of the three kids who were murdered as well as the families of the three teens convicted. The filmmakers did the right thing by not placing one over the other. While it's clear that they do paint that there's a lot of strange things going on throughout the trial, not once do they take away from the victim's families and this here is very important. The entire backwoods world is probably going to strike many as weird. The families say some pretty strange things. They act or say things that some might object to but I think what's so fascinating is that we're really seeing these people as they try to get on with their lives after losing their kids. Some of the victim's parents talk about killing the teens themselves and we even hear one guy talking about what he wants to do to them. Some might be turned off by this but I think it's an honest reaction to having your kid stolen from you and you wanting revenge. Even some of the teen's families come across saying bad things but it's good they're in the movie because it's an honest reaction to hearing your loved ones have been found guilty of something you don't think they did.Directors Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky have taken a truly grisly triple murder and turned it into some of the greatest drama you're going to witness. The events of the murders are just so chilling that you want to see justice done but at the same time the evidence on which the three were convicted is so questionable that you can't help but think that more crimes have been committed. Again, I don't know the truth. Perhaps the three teens did have something to do with it but there just wasn't any evidence. Perhaps they're innocent and have been found guilty because of the way they look. Either way, PARADISE LOST shows the pain of families who have had their children taken away from them in one way or another and the human drama here is something painful to watch but at the same time fascinating. The movie certainly gives one a lot to think about and discuss. "},{"Title":"guilty or not, talk about the movie.","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Even though I felt that this documentary was well produced I had some serious problems with some of the subject matter. The little boys should have always been the main focus but it almost seemed like they were props. They were very rarely discussed in any other situation than the murder and I thought that did an injustice to their memory. The murder of an innocent, in my opinion is one of the most unforgivable crimes one can commit.That being said, I will not voice my opinion on their guilt or innocence on a movie site but I will say that their trial was a sham.... Give me a break. Besides other things and I won't go into too much detail The cops mysteriously losing evidence, not having any physical evidence to place them at the scene or having a motive, other than the satanic cult ritual theory; which has to be debunked because they couldn't prove any of them were satanists(I know someone will probably say something and no wiccan is not satanism).I think the true injustice is that IF these teens didn't murder those poor little boys the horrific murderers who did will be walking free forever and 3 Innocent kids and 6 Innocent families have to suffer, the boys who were murdered and the kids who were convicted of it. I'm not saying that they are Innocent but don't those men at least deserve a competent trial and legal defense? Those who argue they are guilty, what is another trial gonna do? If they are guilty they'll just go back to jail and if they're not maybe the real killers can be brought to justice.Overall I found this movie was an emotional one, and hard to watch, but for someone who has no previous knowledge of the case, like I was, it's worth watching and considering. There's one last thing as a mom I have to say; God rest those poor little boys. "}{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is unbelievable that 3 people can be convicted of murder where there are no witnesses and a complete lack of physical evidence.  Is it incriminating to have library books about Wicca in your house?  To wear black?  To listen to a certain type of music?  To write someone's name on a piece of paper in a secret code alphabet?  Even combining all of these does NOT make someone guilty of anything where there is no evidence.  These boys were found guilty before the trial even started.  I liked the interviews with family and friends and such.  I think it shows the mentality of the people that convicted these boys.  (Unfortunately, had this been tried anywhere else, I think they would have been acquitted.  Nothing was proven beyond a reasonable doubt.)I was especially disturbed by the step-father during the target shooting scene.Watch this movie and you will be be disgusted that this was allowed.  In a country where you are innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, these boys were screwed. "},{"Title":"The finest documentary I have ever seen","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie sucked me in so hard that the person spit back out will never be quite the same.  The even-handed approach of the filmmakers makes this a first-rate, real life mystery, and I found myself scouring every detail of the movie for clues as to what was REALLY going on here.  Not only are three (I believe innocent) boys on trial here, but the justice system in general, and the results are extremely unsettling.  This is the finest documentary I have ever seen, and I can't wait for the sequel to this modern American tragedy.   "},{"Title":"Excellent Docudrama, raises many questions!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found both the original and the sequel (Paradise Lost 2) to be intriging and horrifying at the same time. Both movies lead the viewer to want to conduct their own research in an effort to obtain answers to many unanswered questions (a very dubious and purposeful task set forth by the filmmakers, you are compelled as the veiwer to get right online and find out if any new evidence was ever obtained). Every next scene is a revelation and an enigma at the same time. Did the Bible belting, prescription drug hazed stepfather do it? Did the teens perhaps witness and help? Do you really feel that there is evidence of their innocence or is it just that the investigation and the loss of many key pieces of evidence makes you want them to be free? It seemed to me that the step-father had strange connections with other teens after the murder of his own son. Murderers often repeat and perfect their crimes. You have to watch both movies to get the real jist of why so many citizens are outraged at the investigation and trials of the teens convicted. What both movies seem to lack is a concentration on the victims and their lifestyles, but concentrate heavily on reactions from press and family, law enforcement, the judicial system in West Memphis and the group of people who are to this very day collecting money for the three teens whom they believe to be innocent, but have been convicted(in their beliefs)wrongly. The two movies are definitely a must-see, if for no other reason, to see what goes on with a largely uneducated and opinionated (sans facts and proper investigation) modern day witch trial. The biggest bothersome questions?  Why would anyone allow a lie detector test to be taken with a person on anti-depressants? Why hasn't the step father's(look closely at his teeth in the 1st movie) original dental records been compared with bite marks found on the boys? Why haven't the three teens been given lie detector tests and the results made public? Where is the minute physical evidence now? And the biggest question of all, who really murdered Stephen, Michael and Christopher? There's no statute of limitations on murder. Public outcry would bring justice for the three most important people in all of this, the three who were tortured and killed.  "},{"Title":"Little kids will be looking under their beds before they go to bed...Damien might be under there!","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" The trouble with documentaries these days is that cable news covers stories so thoroughly that there is nothing left to tell. Fortunately, I have not seen coverage of this story, so it is perfect for me. It also occurs in Arkansas, a state I lived in for many years, so I am familiar with the people, even if I did not live in this part of the state. I believe the nuns who taught me in the 6th, 7th, and 8th grade were from Jonesboro.The story barely stated when I heard Satanic worship mentioned. I usually get ready to dismiss anyone that brings that up. It is too easy to use to rile up the yokels. Of course, homosexual orgies are mentioned also as part of the work of Satan's minions.The trials were the main focus of the film and it was interesting to see, in one case, that there was absolutely no evidence against one and he was convicted just because he hung out with another who was condemned because he wore black, listened to heavy metal, and read books on Wicca.I can't wait for the followup. "},{"Title":"gives Law & Order a run for its money","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Documentarians Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky who uncovered the unbelievable and disturbing with their 1992 release Brother's Keeper, and who would go on to helm the metal-head therapy session that was the riveting Metallica Some Kind of Monster gathered two and a half hours of unsettling and disconcerting evidence of the holes in the U.S. justice system with Paradise Lost the Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills. The film conveys the events that followed a gruesome triple murder of second grade boys just outside a small Arkansas town.This case led to the quick rounding up of three teenage male suspects a highly diffident and low-functioning seventeen-year-old, a quiet pimple-faced sixteen-year-old, and a highly intelligent black haired Wiccan of eighteen. Berlinger and Sinofsky's film presents a very balanced story with equal time given to the grieving families and the prosecuting attorneys as well as the suspects and their families and the defense attorneys. The peek we are given inside the justice system as shown through actual footage from the courtroom, and from meetings within the respective legal chambers offer the audience an unusually involved role in the proceedings. This is powerful and unnerving film-making! "},{"Title":"A fascinating look into a America's fault ridden justice system","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paradise lost is a fascinating look into the American justice system and how the police and courts are far from perfect. This story revolves around 3 boys who are brutally murdered in Robin Hill wood in Memphis. The documentary shows us the court case of three boys who are accused of the murdered. The conviction is based only on a dodgy confession from one of the boys(of which he later says he was forced to do) and not from any shred of evidance at all! The film crew interview the murdered boys parents and family and also the accused boys family. The overiding thought you get from the film is that the boys should never be in court in the first place, they seem to be on the witness stand simply because they are a little different from most kids because they like heavy metal music and dress in black. The film is a little too graphic for my liking, do we have to see photo's of the mutilated children? I dont think so, but this is America and this film shows what diverse and perverse place it can be. 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Scary, Even for me.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I Soapbar, Have seen the scariest, creepiest, and most controversial films ever, and still couldn't sleep the night after seeing this. Three boy's are brought in based on a flimsy confession by a boy with a mental disability, and although the boy changed his story, and there was hardly any evidence against the other two boys, they are still put to trial for captial murder. Intense, very intense. Frequently you change your mind about whose side your on, and what you think should happen, remind yourself, IT'S REAL, the footage is real, and the story is real. Those with weak stomachs beware, there is footage at the beginning of the dead second graders, bloodless, cut up bodies on the banks. This film should be remembered, it is truly a work of art.       "},{"Title":"Ever Thought of this","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'll Throw something at the defenders of these 3 that I Don't believe Anyone has mentioned. The people here want to cast some suspicion on byers....I will say this, He IS one Man, How could one man and this guy was'nt healthy right. round up 3 kids and do this without one of the other 2 running like hell in a different direction each, Crying and Screaming for help..Where as You Have THREE, That's 3 defendants who could easily talk to these young boys, befriend them for a little while, then BOOM, grab them,Over power them and Do what they did. IMHO one guy didn't do this and throwing crap against the wall,byers accusations,and whatever they can to aide their cause is Denial and just plain Dumb..The police have the Right people, it's only a matter of time before this is finally closed for good..... "},{"Title":"i am steve branch's cousin and i watched this right after it all happened and it provided a lot of information my family would not tell me...","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" my family wouldn't let me know much about the case because i was young when it happened....this movie let me know about everything they wouldn't tell me at the time...of course I'm older now and know ...but if it weren't for the movie at the time i would have been in the dark...i wouldn't have known what the killers looked like or anything....i haven't seen the second part yet, but i hope they never let him out like i hear he is trying to do....my memaw says he is trying to appeal....i hope they turn it down...steve was the same age as my brother....now i will never get to know him as well as i should have and he and my brother could have been close friends.... "},{"Title":"Scary to think so many could like this film","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the 1990s, a time in which television and documentary film makers discover they can even spin real life. Scary as this seems, take further into account that all the people in this documentary are real and agreed to be filmed. Calling this Jerry Springer Goes to the Movies would be exaggerating, but not by much.Consider Paradise Lost starts with the old trick of shocking the viewer to draw them in. This is done with very graphic footage of three murdered and mutilated second grade boys. The film makers show little to no sympathy for their passing. The boys merely are props.Three murder suspects and a menagerie of relatives and friends then are introduced. It becomes evident within these first few minutes that Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky, the film makers, doubt the guilt of three misfit high school boys charged with the crime. They focus heavily on the leader, Damien, who enjoys the attention of the camera so much that he becomes unaware that he really is on trial for murder. He even plays up the part by openly showing his interest in witchcraft and death -- the bodies of the dead boys appeared to have had ritualistic markings cut into them.Subtle suspicion is aimed toward the step-father of one of the dead boys. The film makers repeatedly question him about the murders, trying to pin down his uneven responses. The man simply isn't very educated and later we discover he has a brain tumor. In turn, it's easy to confuse him into giving suggestive answers and cause him to appear somewhat guilty. Passing interest is given to his alibi, which is airtight. Instead we are expected to believe that because he is mentally slow that he might have done it.Suspicion also is placed on a mysterious derelict reportedly seen in the area around where the boys were found. In fuzzy eyewitness accounts, he is said to have acted strangely and, of course, is never found or identified.Uneducated also defines many of the other people shown in the film. The film makers, however, are very intelligent and use this to their advantage. While never directly stating their opinions, they use leading and suggestive questions to twist the recollections and comments of those they interview. They also cleverly leave out important pieces of information that lead to the outcome of the trial. Both combine to place a shadow over the convictions of Damien and his two cohorts, who lack the intelligence to do anything but play along.Damien, whether guilty or not, never shows remorse and floats back and forth between a drug-like mental haze and an almost gleeful indulgence in playing the 90s version of Charles Manson. Indifference is not the mark of an innocent man.I wonder if Damien ever sits in his cell at night considering what he traded for his 15 minutes of fame. "}{"Title":"A movie that makes you aware of how panic and being different can destroy the lives if innocent people.","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I started watching this movie I was aware of the story it presents and I knew it would be frustrating for me to watch it as I also knew the outcome. What I didn't know was the impact it was gonna have on me. I mean any person with half a brain can realize that the whole thing was a witch hunt. They needed someone to blame and the kids who dressed in black appeared to be the best choice at that moment. I can honestly say the movie is very impartial. There is no Michael Moore character in this movie explaining stuff or influencing you. The perspective is truly objective and they are only showing the facts. So it is a documentary in the true meaning of the word. Before watching the movie, I saw a comment by another user who ended with sadly there is nothing we can do about it. Believe it or not, this is one of the few movies that actually made me want to take action, to do something to help those kids. So I tried to figure what I can do to help. What I am trying to do is make it easier to help for other people who have experienced what I have and simply think justice must be done. In short, if you wanna help and get involved with this, www.wm3.org is the place to start. It's the website where you can find updates on the case as appeals are still currently taken place and where you too can try to make a difference. Enjoy the movie! "},{"Title":"Haunting movie","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best documentaries that I have seen lately. The filmmakers stick to the facts and allow viewers to slowly form their own opinion of this disturbing case. Prejudice and ignorance surrounding the trial overshadow facts. It is a movie that stays with you and forces people to think critically about our fragile justice system. After I saw it I was never able to look at a court case without thinking how much my own views might be influenced by the hype and media around me. You can see how murderers can be set free and how innocent people can be locked up in jail. The justice system becomes so obviously fragile that I even had to consider whether or not I believe in having jury is fair, for it is putting the lives of people in the hands of those who are not truly experts to examine critically any evidence. A must see! "},{"Title":"The system is flawed...","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" In today's society, its hard to believe that anyone could murder three innocent children. What is even harder to believe is that three teens could be accused of such a crime. This documentary follows the 1994 trials of Jesse Misskelley Jr., Jason Baldwin, and Damien Echols. The documentary shows court footage that was shot during the trial, interviews with the accused, their families, the victim's families and court officials. It also gives details of the case such as a confession from Jesse Misskelley, graphic photos of the victims bodies, and etc. When you watch the whole story unfold, you can't help but question the validity of the evidence, especially if you know anything about the law. In addition, you will also question how the police came to the conclusion that these boys were involved in the first place, and why there weren't any investigations into other possible killers. This is definitely a movie to watch. It will either give the viewer a sense of justice or it will make you doubt our legal system. Either way, its up to you to decide. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have watched both these documentaries and at the end of it all find myself to be quite saddened. I feel that there have been injustices done here to both the families of the murdered children and to the young men accused of their murders.I think a lot of airtime is wasted on the step father, I'm sure we have an overall idea of his character by now, the 3 in jail don't say much, whether they've been informed by there lawyers not to comment on certain things or whether there comments have been cut who knows. The justice or court system there speaks for itself and the police force I think are in a little over there heads now to admit they may have made a mistake.Saddly at the end of the day only those who committed these murders know who they are and although I have my opinion, that's all it is, is my opinion!!! "},{"Title":"You have got to see this Movie","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie several times, if you want to see just how wrong our justice system can be then watch this movie. Three children murdered, three teenagers accused , the evidence will shock you. I've seen the second movie Paradise Lost, Revelations I have also read the book the  The Devils Knot . Damien , Jessie, and Jason are innocent. Justice will not be served until those men are released, and the guilty is convicted. I would recommend not only watching this movie but also finding all information about the case you can. Free the West Memphis Three is not only a saying it is a movement, get involved and show support.I am a mother of two children I would let Damien Echols watch them any day, I am that sure of his innocence. This shows that it wasn't an investigation, it was a witch hunt. Show your support and draw your own conclusion. Free the West Memphis Three!!! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Documentary Ever","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Give me non-fiction over fiction any day of the week. Because truth is always stranger than fiction and more entertaining. Perhaps no documentary ever proves that more than this incredible film. Take a truly horrific triple murder, a town that is heart broken, and a need for some justice, any kind of justice, this is what you get. Three little boys were murdered and mutilated. Three older boys were accused of doing it. The only problem, is that there was no hard evidence connecting the three to the crime, except the later recounted confession of a mentally retarded co-conspirator, who had been interrogated by himself for a rather long period of time. More disturbing, is the question, of whether these boys were arrested merely for the way they dressed and the music they listened to. This film had me seeking new information and totally consumed, still am. You will never see a more haunting, chilling, and fascinating tell. Moreover, you will be asking yourself many questions. For me, it was how could they find these three boys guilty? "},{"Title":"Oh, boy...","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (SPOILERS AHEAD)Well, I really can't say for sure if the kids are innocent (they seem to be), and their trials were a farse. The retard who the cops got a confession out of was doomed the day he was born. As for Jason, had he been tried alone, he never would've benn found guilty, not in a million years. What got him was being tried next to Damien (guilty by association). And what tanked Damien was (besides his weirdness) his stupid arrogant actitude. I mean, during the trial, he LOOKED evil (even after cutting his hair, and a real creppy haircut he got) and ACTED as a sociopath (watch him grinning from his seat at the camera and at the jury, come on). And when he took the stand, his behavior was utterly arrogant and detached. Whatever chance he had, he blew it big time. Too bad he didn't have Danny Davis for a lawyer (in Indictment, Davis played by James Woods, tells Raymond Bucky, the accused, to loose the thick black grasses fast, or it would be a real short trial. He said he LOOKED like a child molester with those, which he did). He could've given a lot of good tips to Damien. And as for Mark Byers, just let me say this. If I should even bump into him in a dark alley, I would'nt think twice, I would blow his head off. That's just how creppy he looks, and acted (at least on camera). "},{"Title":"A chilling and gripping documentary","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This unusually absorbing and extremely disturbing documentary is about the investigation surrounding the murder of three children at Robin Hood Hills, which is located in West Memphis, Arkansas. The grizzly murder took place on May 5, 1993, and three teenagers were pinned as the killers Jessie Miskelly (who has an IQ of 72), Damiem Echols (who dresses in all black and listens to heavy metal music), and his friend Jason Baldwin. The massacre was said to be attributable to some kind of Satanic ritual by the local townspeople (which consists mostly of Fundamentalist-type Christians). What makes this documentary so absorbing is that the directors had complete freedom to tape the court hearings; hence, the complex, unfolding drama which took shape inside the court is fully recorded and the viewer is gradually drawn into the subtleties of the case. What becomes clear from this documentary is that the evidence marshaled by the prosecuting attorneys is no where near sufficient to warrant the severity of the sentence delivered to the three teens (Miskelly and Baldwin both received life sentences, while Echols received the death sentence). There are lots of holes and unanswered questions which the jurors, perhaps blinded by prejudice concerning alleged Satanic rituals, refused to face. For example, If the massacre took place at Robin Hood Hills, why is it that there is no trace of blood to be found there? How could the teens have done such a thorough clean up job--in the dark, with little water (in the streams), and pestered by mosquitoes in the area? And how come there are no mosquito bites on the three victims? Further developments towards the end of the film throws a completely new and chilling possibility on the whole situation John Mark Byers, the step-father of one of the massacred children, Christopher (whose penis was severed with a knife), gives a pocket knife to the directors as a gift. They discover that it has traces of blood on it, so they hand it over to the police. A cursory blood test reveals that the blood on the knife is of the same type as Christopher's. Could Byers actually be the killer? He denies it, and none of the townspeople believe it. But...if Mr. Byers' claim that the blood on the knife is his own (his blood type is the same as Christopher's) is correct, how come in an earlier police interrogation he claimed that he didn't cut himself with the knife? And how could the police be so careless as to let the blood from the knife be removed, so that no further testing (e.g. a DNA test) can be done on it? At the end of the film one is left questioning the justice of the legal system, and facing up to the following unnerving possibility The three children were in fact killed by the three teens in a Satanic ritual of some kind (which is scary indeed), or they were killed by Byers, one of the boy's step-father, and a seemingly well accepted member of the community (which is downright frightening!). See this one and judge for yourself. (cf. Paradise Lost 2 Revelations). "},{"Title":"I seriously flirted with the idea of becoming a documentary film maker after seeing this film.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have so much respect for documentary film makers and I seriously flirted with the idea of becoming one after seeing this film. The time out of their life that they invest in this sort of story is staggering. An incredible story filmed with the intelligent eyes and ears of Joe Berlinger & Bruce Sinofsky.  "},{"Title":"painful...haunting...chilling...","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"     This documentary left me speechless. It is a documentary based on the brutal murders of three Memphis 2nd graders in a wooded area known as Robin Hood Hills. The film is mostly interviews with the family's of the victims and of the accused. While I feel for the family of the victims I think they were looking for someone to blame, and that they didn't really care about the truth. While the accused were not the most wholesome of youths that does not mean there murders. The only evidence the police had linking these boys to the crime was a confession by one of the there accused. Who happens to have a I.Q. of 75. The confession was filled with holes and impossibilities. Plus, the accused was interrogated 2 hours before the police even turned the tape recorder on. I can not see how these three boys were indicted, let alone found guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. "}{"Title":"A simply amazing 2.5 Hours","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I sat stunned as I watched this film, which is quite simply the most amazing documentary I have ever had the pleasure of watching. The film starts of with some of the most horrific images you are ever likely to see, a real crime scene video where three young boys have been murdered. What we are seeing documented is the aftermath, the arrest and subsequent trial of three teenagers for the murder of the three boys. The filmmakers never provide any running commentary to what is going on and the film is basically a series of interviews with the accused, their lawyers, family members of the relevant parties and some real trial footage. If what we are shown is a true reflection of the proceedings, and I have read little to dispute that this is the case, then I have to say that these boys being convicted of murder is one of the most ridiculous things I have ever seen. While there isn't enough evidence for me to say they definitely didn't do this horrible thing, there is now way on earth there was proof beyond a 'reasonable doubt'. We have a conviction based on a shaky confession from a slightly retarded boy, and a couple of second hand confessions, oh and I forgot to mention, these boys were into heavy metal music (gasp), wore black clothes and had some interest in Wicca. Its these last few facts that seem to have been the reason they were convicted. Some of the speeches by the prosecutors are enough to make you laugh out loud until you realise that this is real and the man is being serious. In between all this we have some inexcusable police bungling, other potential suspects and some interesting and unsettling interviews with the parents of the murdered boys. One particular stepfather was extremely scary, when you see it you will know whom I am referring to! The scariest thing about this is that Damien Echols is still sitting on Death Row today. "},{"Title":"Injustice For All","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Proof that truth is scarier than fiction.  Three teenagers are found guilty of murder without the slightest evidence against them.  There is something seriously fishy going on in West Memphis Arkansas.This is easily the most compelling documentary I've ever seen.  From the shoddy police work to the lame witnesses for the prosecution, this modern day witch hunt will have you shouting at the TV - Free the West Memphis Three!Amaze at the ignorance of the townsfolk, gasp at the comedy of the courtroom testimony and speaking of comedy - John Mark Byers- oh where do I begin?Essential viewing also is Paradise Lost 2 Revelations where the obvious real killer is front and center hamming it up in all of his bigheaded glory. Worth a mention is Mara Leveritt's book Devil's Knot where she explores in detail the corruption at the heart of the West Memphis police department and sets the scene for the events that led to the teenagers' arrests.Jason, Jessie and Damien are still in prison today, 10 years later, and Damien's execution is slated for later this year.  Regardless of who the real killer may be, the bottom line is that these young men need a new trail with a fair and impartial judge and jury - and quick. "},{"Title":"The horrible truth can be scary as Hell. NOT FOR THE TIMID.","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the most even handed documentary I ever remember seeing. I actually watched the sequel two nights before sitting glued to the original HBO investigative special. A cold hard look at life lost. Three young second graders in West Memphis, Arkansas were found dead along a creek bank. They were nude, brutally bashed, sexually abused, mutilated, cut and even signs of being bitten. Three teenagers were ferreted out and convicted of the horrid murders. One of the convicted is mentally challenged; another is an introverted follower; and the only one on death row professes to interest in witchery. True life human drama that will rip at your moral fiber and question your own compassion. My opinion is that the real killer or killers are still at large. Too many unanswered questions keeps this mystery alive. Does hope have a heartbeat? "},{"Title":"The lovechild of Charles Manson and Mort Guffman.(SPOILER)","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Make no mistake. This is NOT a mockumentary. It really happened. In the fundamentalist buckle of the despicable bible belt (my conclusion). The crime is particularly heinous. (Heinous; a word not used by anyone in this film to describe the crime because they can't pronounce it.)But the film is barely 10 seconds gone and we are treated to RAW footage of the crime scene. A crime scene which is SO devoid of any blood that it looks like a set for a bad movie. I was confused. This cannot be a documentary!, I thought. I checked the on screen guide again. It WAS a documentary. Those were the dead nude beaten bodies of 3 eight year old boys visciously murdered. Then WHY does it look like the Blair Witch? WHY ARE THERE CREDITS ROLLING OVER THIS FOOTAGE!?!?!? It seemed like the commercialization of a holocaust! Mutilated 2nd grader's privates brought to you by Crispy Flakes! Get some TODAY! Poor taste? There are no words in English for the crassness of these images. Then the alleged perpatrators appear. Oh. My. Goodness. A poor slow boy who can't wait to go home from jail and screw his girlfriend. A painfully lost KID who has the misfortune to live near a lake where a fisherman lost his fishing knife (my conclusion). And the capable(?) ringleader(?). A necessarily closeted gay (my conclusion) teen looking for an outlet for his imagination who picks Wicca (read SATANISM!) and Metallica (read MINOR CHORDS!) and black (AARRRGH!) clothes. And that's in the first 5 minutes or so! But during the courtroom segments we get shots of Damien (I know!) the ringleader fixing his hair in the courtroom with some ridiculous mirror on a stick. A nice little girlie bob. WHAT WAS HIS LAWYER THINKING!? Very little apparantly. He didn't even use a dictionary to check his spelling before he went before the jury with his poster board bullet points. But I needn't have been worried. The jury was BLIND anyway! Someone killed those little boys in another location and brought their bodies to the woods to dump them (my conclusion). Someone big and strong and VERY disturbed (my conclusion). Or it could've been the mother of one boy who did it just so she could be on TV!! She was laughing with excitement at being in front of the camera until the interview started. But she made sure to let us know SHE had an alibi. It wuddn't my fawolt. I wuz at wOrk. And do not get me started on Stepdaddie Byers who sings in church and leads prayers one minute and then runs off to the farm to plan an armed assault on the accused teens in the court house the next. AND HE gives the gift that keeps on dripping. To the directors of the film he presented A BLOODY KNIFE with possible evidence caked on the hinges. Oh yeah, he seems to have a brain tumor to match the dental tumors he displays. These people and more exactly like them are the ones sitting in judgement of the accused West Memphis 3.  But I cannot believe that an introverted scaredy-cat, a mild retarded boy and a bored Madonna wannabe planned and executed these executions. But executed Damien may be if someone doesn't go down there and stop these evil people, who are perverting the American judicial system. And then they made a part 2! "},{"Title":"the child molesters at Robin Hills","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have watched both videos and have done some research on the subject I believe these three boys are guilty and all of them should have been given the death sentence. The crime itself is one of the worst I have ever heard of. Also, the defense trying to implicate the father of one of the murdered children could be responsible is absolutely absurd. You can tell the guilt just by looking into their eyes..and listen to the answers they give when asked how they would react if that had happened to someone close to them. Jason actually told people that he was planning another killing of other children that he had already picked out.In conclusion, I think a common sense person that watches these videos will agree with me that these boys deserve the death penalty. "},{"Title":"And a little child shall mislead them.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a kid I used to figure that everyone was probably pretty much like I was, stumbling through life, acting on hunches, trying not to step on more toes than necessary. Somewhere along the way I went through an experience similar to that of the Buddha when he left the garden at sixteen and discovered evil. I've begun to believe that thought is an irritant for most humans. Everyone in this documentary seems to be consumed by hatred of someone else. Of course a triple homicide in a small town is a shattering event. That was the first inhuman event. What followed was hardly better. All the families seem to be broken into fragments but this doesn't impede their rage. I don't believe he did it, says the father of one of the defendants, I'll never believe it. I wouldn't send him a nickel in jail, says the woman who is evidently his stepmother. (This before any evidence has been presented in court.) A step-father of the victim raves how about the three defendants carried on homosexual orgies, I'm told, and vows to spit and pee on their graves after they're buried. This guy believes in demons who possess people. Other relatives of the victims take target practice, saying that the defendants will be taken care of one way or another, through the justice system or otherwise, and they brag about how these particular weapons leave no ballistic signature. I'd be happy lining 'em up, he says, I wouldn't have no problem with it. Religion is of little help, although religious beliefs are deeply felt. (How can you believe in Satan without believing in God?)And yet I believe it's a mistake to view these individuals -- victims, defendants, participants in the justice system -- as somehow wanting. It isn't them. It's the culture they grew up in. These people have, like the rest of us, little choice over their emotional and behavioral responses. You believe in free will? Try wearing a toga next time you go to work. When we're inside the box, when we take for granted the values we grow up in, we tend to operate under a set of demands we can't begin to analyze because we don't recognize them for what they are. He's my flesh and blood, says the father of a defendant. Right. That tells us a good deal. An interviewer asks a victim's mother, Do you believe they were Satanists? Sure, she says, just look at them. They look like -- punks. These individuals are instruments of a culture, and would have as difficult a time switching values as they would have if they suddenly decided to speak a language other than Engish. The least constructive set of values is those that emphasize not understanding and self-protection and reasonable punishment, but revenge. (I want to emphasize understanding here, because far too many spokesman for our particular sociopolitical system have been prepared to wage war on Iran and/or Iraq without apparently knowing how to pronounced the name of the country. Can you imagine an American consul in Italy referring to Eye-talians?) Hatred is piled upon hatred and generates little other than more hatred. Terrorists fly airplanes into buildings. Our response is to declare war on global terrorism, leading us to overthrow governments whose dictators we disapprove of, which, we can be almost certain, will lead to additional terrorist attacks, which will generate ultimately some sort of Pax Americana that doesn't work. This film shows us the seedling from which such major social movements grow.Cultures are a bit like families, in that they are collectivities, made up of individuals who subscribe to a similar set of sentiments. It feels good to belong to a group. Not only that, but it reduces the need for thought. If a close relative of mine dies, how long do I have to mourn? Until the funeral. The whole ritual is laid out and I don't need to think much about it. We don't have to actually know much about the things we're judging either. Is Islam good? Mohammed was a terrorist, says one of our leaders on the Christian right. Okay. Now I don't have to find out who Mohammed was, let alone read the Kor'an in order to discover the motives of Al Qaeda. It will take us a long time to realize that some cultures, like some families, are in desperate need of revamping before they self destruct. And other cultures, like other families, are not worth saving, as Nazi Germany was not worth saving.For what it's worth, there is a lot of gobbledygook on Satanic rituals, and all of that familiar stuff. (I taught a course on Satanism once.) It's all baloney of course. It was a self-sustaining economic enterprise, among other things, with self-proclaimed experts explaining on TV and in the courts what a Pentagram was. No physical evidence linked the defendants to the murders. Convictions were obtained on the basis of rambling and self-contradictory confessions. I don't think the Satanic punks did it, but I might be wrong. "},{"Title":"Manipulation By Filmmakers","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first watched this film, I was convinced of the innocence of Damien and friends UNTIL the end, when Damien is asked if he committed the murders. Watch his eyes carefully.  He is asked twice and both times his eyes flick up and to the side, the classic sign of a liar.  The documentarians were obviously biased towards him and tailored the film to present him as innocent, but in the end, Damien's eyes give this movie away as sheer propaganda. "},{"Title":"Most Terrifying Story I Have Ever Seen Captured On Film","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll admit, I'm big on scary movies. I loved the Friday the 13th series, Nightmare on Elm Street, Strangeland, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and the like.I have never EVER seen a movie as absolutely terrifying as the Joe Berlinger documentary Paradise Lost. I was completely gripped by this tale of murder, false accusations, paranoia, and injustice.The events described in this film are real events that happened in this country not more than 10 years ago. As I watched the story unfold, I simply could not believe what I saw.I can't help but wonder, if I had been living in West Memphis at the time could Damien's fate been my own? I enjoy dressing in black and listening to heavy metal music. I have read satanic and wican litterature. Could I too be sitting on death row for something I had nothing to do with?One that hasn't seen this movie would think not... not in America. One who has, will think differently. "},{"Title":"This film looks at the gruesome child murders at the Robin Hood Hills back in the early nineties, and the trial of the three boys convicted of them.","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen documentary films on some of the most gruesome murders in history, such as the Moorhouse horrors and the Mornington Monster, but even their murders weren't as gruesome as these. The ringleader, Echols, says that he's going to be remembered for what he's accused of as the Memphis Boogeyman. That children will check under their beds for him before they go to sleep. My opinion is that Echols is they ringleader of his little satanic cult and that he did murder those three children. However, I believe that the other two boys may not have been involved in the murder.But don't judge them from my opinion,see the film for yourself and make your own choice.To those who agree with me, it may shock you to know that Echols is still on death row. "},{"Title":"Chilling, haunting, disturbing...words not adequate enough","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  to describe this murder mystery that is also a documentary. Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky don't wag fingers or preach from their own cinematic pulpit, which they could have, but just letting the participants speak for themselves is more than enough. Although I wasn't able to watch this all the way through, I got the point. What made me feel even sicker than the brutality and the horror of the murders themselves and the helpless victims of such violence, was the way the whole thing piqued my interest, thanks to the filmmakers. In between the lines of the trial and the testimonies, is a tale of prejudice, indifference, intolerance, and of madness and evil bubbling under the surface of a small town that even Stephen King couldn't make up on his darkest day.The most chilling impression of all that I came away with? I will say this--the stepfather of Christopher Byers gave me more chills than the examination of the three alleged teenage murderers combined. When you combine a devout love of religion with such a pathological tendency towards violence in one personality, you know there's something unbelievably sinister hiding in wait there, even if this man didn't do it, or would never be considered a suspect.Maybe that's why HBO commissioned a sequel...And I completely understand why Joe Berlinger was chosen to direct Blair Witch 2. PARADISE LOST is about the closest you could ever come to a real-life BLAIR WITCH-type case...and the closest you'd ever want to get... "}{"Title":"Made me sick!","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Distortion. Manipulation. Fear. Those are some of the things that convicted three boys of a brutal triple homicide. It's infuriating because THERE WAS NO EVIDENCE LINKING THEM TO THE CRIME! Three young boys are brutally murdered and sexually mutilated. Three teenagers are arrested and convicted of the crime. This isn't Law and Order. This is about how distortion of the truth and insinuating facts can distort it. I was left wondering how they could convict three young men of such crimes with NO CREDIBLE WITNESSES! Especially when another man was clearly implicated in it.Disturbing? Yes. Infuriating? Absolutely. Perfect? Not quite...Paradise Lost The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills is a two and a half hour long documentary, and while the filmmakers never waste a moment, it has a tendency to drag. Still, it's a must see.What's especially interesting about this film is that the directors are so even-handed about their subject. They tell the story from both sides of the issue. Yet it's kind of uneven when it comes to the people involved, though no doubt this is their intent to prove their point. There's no information about Jason Baldwin, even at the trial, no one mentions him. But what is there to say? He's guilty by association. John Mark Byers is the only parent who's given any light, but his involvement is more suspicious than any of the accused (iMDb says his wife died a year later, and the cause is UNDETERMINED!).It's The Crucible in real-life. "},{"Title":"God Bless the Children!","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this show and I am in disbelief that people actually believe these boys are innocent. It is a good show that showed to me how guilty these boys are and to be honest Damien Echols is a sick person that thinks if he sits and says (hey they needed someone to pin it on because we stood out)he will get the sympathy of people and as I can see it is working. This is something I would never wish on anybody and if it did happen to a family member of the people saying they are innocent nothing would sway the guilty verdict. Have some sympathy for the children not the monsters that got what they deserve. This show was good to show me how monsters come in many shapes and forms and I believe the sentencing was right. Remember the children Michael Moore, Steven Branch and Christopher Byers May they be Resting in Peace. "},{"Title":"what's going on?","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have just watched the second paradise lost 2 weeks after watching the first and i cannot believe that this day in age something like this would be possible, especially in the U.S.A! I come from England and i always believed America to be a country full of opportunities and wonderful people who wanted to live in a free land no matter what race, colour or religion and this has appalled me to the point that i want to be sick! I studied law for 2 years and cannot believe that those 3 boys could be convicted for life or put on death row on the evidence that there was! In my opinion i suspect the step-father not just because he's weird but for a number of reasons. 1. He states that as a child he was tortured and abused and as a number of psychologists have said over the years a lot of the times when this is the case people go on to do it themselves in later life. 2. Why was his son the most mutilated out of the three boys murdered? 3. Why when bite marks became involved in the case did his teeth suddenly disappear, to a number of different versions according to him. 4. What on earth happened to his wife? the mother of one of the victims? did she find out something? 5. He had also been in trouble for hitting someone else's child and making some kids fight with knives whilst holding a gun. 6.why is he still the only one of the parents that have anything to do with this case, because as much as id be angry if someone killed my child, i would not want to be reminded of it. 7. He has openly admitted to beating his son on a regular basis. 8.His lie detector test was taken whilst he was on a concoction of drugs. 9. Why is nobody trying to sort out this bite mark issue? its obviously on everyones mind and i think that if someone would bother to try to get the step-fathers dental records and compare them it would take a load off of everyones mind in this matter, as it has already been proved that they do not match up with any of the 3 convicted. 10. Those 3 boys were obviously murdered somewhere else and dumped in the woods so who carried them there? the 3 convicted? i don't think so 2 of the three were not very big built and does anyone honestly believe that 3 teenage boys 2 of whom had very low I.Qs could eradicate all possible evidence???? where is the blood? where is the DNA? there must be something.The only thing that worries me regarding the 3 boys convicted is the fact that they are not screaming of their innocence as another person has stated if it were me i would be. But on the other hand you do not know what is happening from their side i.e they could be on drugs or have been threatened not to protest who knows? "},{"Title":"paradise lost the child murders at robin hood hills","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" i found this documentary very interesting. it just proves that the American justice system is flawed. i believe in the west memphis 3's innocence, and john byers guilt. i also believe that if pearl jam and metallica, and every other person believe in their innocence, then they must be innocent. i find that a lot of evidence pointed more to john byers, and maybe an accomplice. the police coerced the boys and fed them information, by showing the photo's of the dead boys. i have also heard that byers was a drug addict and might suffer bipolar. his wife is now dead, did she find out that he was actually the killer. and why would he pull out his teeth. i personally do not believe in the death penalty, and i hope with all the evidence of their innocence, that the real killer will be brought to justice.FREE THE WEST MEMPHIS 3 and get the American justice system to find the real killer. GOOD LUCK DAMIEN, JASON AND JESSIE I HOPE ONE DAY YOU WILL BE FREED. "},{"Title":"The American Justice System is WORNG!!","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film has made me feel so frustrated!! It is so obvious that the child's foster father was the murderer! Can't you see it?! Goodness, all of the trail stood on the confession of one of the boys, who was under interrogation for 12 hours. Me, if somebody would interrogate me for 12 hours, I would tell them my father is the Devil, my mother is St.Maria, and I cause global warming and the Aids in Africa. You know what? We all as guilty as these three boys are. And I was 2 year old at the time of the murders. Make your calculation, people. Men, don't you think it's annoying when the Justice is not for all? Thank you for reading, think on that... These boys are innocent!! "},{"Title":"Frightening","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just go tthrough watching this & all I can say is...The Stepfather did it!!! Never have I seen a more creepy individual. First off, anyone that refers to Satan as sloothfoot has some definite issues. But as the film progresses you learn of his gift to the filmmakers & the holes in his own testimony. I have not seen the sequel but will try & rent it soon... Apparently his wife his dead now, as the last image you see of them in this film is their kissing as he says they will kill no more babies. Gee, wonder what happened to her? He is gross & ugly too...weird shaped head & gnarly teeth. Scary, scary individual. Peopel from the South are generally frightening in their lack of common sense & judgemental Christian values...but this film exposes it for all it's worst. A definite emotional piece of film. "},{"Title":"Tragic beyond tears","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the saddest documentary movies I have ever seen. Three innocent lives lost and three more destroyed, probably at the hands of the same man - John Mark Byers - who is still walking free and probably still spouting the same religious nonsense as that other righteous killer,GWB. Flame away. OK, I need to add another eight lines to get my comment published. What happened to brevity being the soul of wit? What about empty vessels making the most sound etc etc? I review (and sometimes write) professional opinions for a living. The quality is usually inversely proportional to the length. Why say in 1000 words what can be conveyed in ten? Have we all become infected with legalese? Back to the documentary. Insightful, objective, interesting, honest - what more can be said. Hope this is enough. "},{"Title":"For all of those too stupid to research for themselves...","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Read all the evidence here http//www.wm3.org Every piece of evidence, every court transcript, every statement.. available to read in full, at your leisure. Anyone who thinks they did it, quite obviously knows absolutely nothing about the case or it just utterly inbred. It's really quite obvious who did it! When a bite mark was found on Stevie Branch, his stepfather has his teeth removed! The same stepfather who admits to having 'blind rages'... Oh, and in case I have to clarify for the simpler minded folks out there, the bite marks obviously in no way match Damian, Jason or Jessie's teeth.So before you start grabbing your pitchforks and demonising people you know nothing, learn what you are talking about! Read through the evidence, and if you can find anything proving their guilt in any way, i'd love to hear it! "},{"Title":"Shirts/contribution/a part of Paradise Lost 3","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Joe and Bruce.If You are reading this,My name is Jason.I make donation shirts(different designs) for Jason,Jessie,and Damien.My company is called CASUAL-TEES-CLOTHINGAVENGERS OF THE FIRST AMENDMENT.Mark Byers and His Girlfriend can be seen wearing Them on wreg.com(news interview)and more.I have been into this case since the beginning.I saw both Paradise Losts when They aired on HBO,read Devil's knot and Blood of innocents,and have gathered countless other info on the case on My own.I heard You Guys were at the recent conference.I am a huge supporter and would love to be a part of Paradise Lost 3 in any way that I can.Please get in touch with Me.I want to show My support,and be a part of the BEST trilogy that Hollywood could have never thought of,if They tried(and this is a documentary,which makes it even better)My contact info is bloodwavegorebath13@netzero.net Please get in touch with Me.Thanks for Your time.-Jason "},{"Title":"From someone who lived through this","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen both documentaries about the Robin Hood Hills murders.  I witnessed them first hand because I live in the city where those three little boys lost their lives.  Only three people know what really happened on that fateful day the victims.Over the course of the past ten years, those self proclaimed innocent yet still in jail murderers have gained a lot as far as the lime light is concerned.  What people fail to realize is that families were robbed of their children because of those three cowards.  MiskelleyEchols and Baldwin permanently robbed the Byers, Branch and Moore families of watching their children grow up.The film is basically a look into the lives of the detectives, families and police officers that were assigned the awful duty of finding out who committed the crimes.  I believe that part of the film was done beautifully. One of the best parts of the movie was one of the little boy's fathers blasting pumpkins with a shotgun and claiming they were the heads of the ones in jail.  "}]