[{"Title":"One of my favorite guilty pleasures  a most awesome B-movie extravaganza!!!","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't have much of an opinion on this flick.  Because what's there to analyze?  Gratuitous violence.  Gratuitous gore.  Gross-out effects strictly for shock value.  Gratuitous nudity and close-ups of big breasts.  What we have here is a feminist's nightmare.  What we also have is an absolute blast!!!I'm sure women won't enjoy this as much and will probably b*tch about the overdose of female nudity, but for all you guys who just don't give a damn and just want to kick back and have a good time  You will love this movie!!  This is like a mix of Wes Craven and Howard Stern.  A supreme guilty pleasure!I enjoy deep, artistically brilliant films like American Beauty and Magnolia, but there's no reason I can't enjoy a campy, shallow, sleazy horror flick like this.  I don't ONLY enjoy these types of flicks, but I can enjoy it as long as it's done in a fun, tongue-in-cheek, unpretentious manner.  I just want to get that straight.  OK, I'll go on.  )Dennis Miller provides great comic relief in his lead role.  Those who are fans of his schtick should look forward to this movie.  The horror sequences, though sometimes cheesy, are great fun to watch.  There's a spectacular sequence at the end with excellent usage of the song Ballroom Blitz.  There are other great classics like All Right Now and Jailbreak.  That's why I bought the soundtrack.  It's awesome!So this movie fits the guy flick stereotype like a glove.  If you're not in the mood for excessive violence, gore and female nudity--don't watch this movie!  Don't say I didn't warn you.  My score  7 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Slightly inferior to Demon Knight, but in some ways better","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While I enjoyed the humor and the Crypt Keepers puns more in this than in Demon Knight, the overall experience of this is just slightly inferior. This one suffers mainly under not having such an entertaining villain/main monster as the first one; Lilith does have some decent lines, but almost all of them were sexual innuendos, which gets old a little too fast. The Collector was more entertaining, with his cynical and sarcastic personality. There's also less action in this one, though there might be slightly more gore. In this one, the plot also moves along a little too slowly, considering the fact that it's only meant as entertainment; with that in mind, you have to wonder why it takes so long to tell the story and get to the gore and blood. The ending sequence was also slightly less entertaining and exciting than the one in Demon Knight. Like Demon Knight, the film manages to bring in plenty of both sex and violence, often both at the same time. Apart from Rafe(Dennis Miller), there weren't really any interesting or entertaining characters. Miller does a really great job, portraying the type of character he usually does; a slimy, sarcastic jerk. That is the Miller that we fans know and love. It's nice to see him in a role that compliments his talents so well. The film, like Demon Knight, is very gory and violent, although apart from the Crypt Keepers puns, and some of Miller's lines, this didn't have that much to offer. It's good enough to watch, if you've got 90 minutes to kill, and you don't want to see Demon Knight, don't want to re-watch it, or can't find it. The films are both worth watching, but I'd suggest Demon Knight over this one. I recommend it(like the first) to fans of gory horror films, and people who just want to be entertained for 90 minutes without having to think very much. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Well, not AS bad as I expected... but not as good as Demon Knight... =)","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, I am a female, so I really got annoyed by all the nudity in it of women... but, besides that, I think people are being too hard on this movie... If you rent a Tales From The Crypt movie, don't expect something very good... but I was a little dissapointed when I saw this, because I think Demon Knight is about one of the best horrors made, and I was surprised that their second film was far different than Demon Knight... This one, Bordello Of Blood, was more funny than anything (quite funny humor I must admit at some points in the movie) with gore, that's all it was, funny and bloody, I was shocked that this movie really didn't have a real plot to it (none that I realized anyway) except obviously, there was vampires, and they wanted them dead... Did I miss something? In Demon Knight, there was a strong plot, great acting, (Especially, Billy Zane...) And funny, gory, exciting, etc., but this was just... pretty plain. If you are expecting a good vampire movie out of this, go watch something else... may I recommend John Carpenter's Vampires? A more serious, believable vampire movie =), but hey, COME ON... this movie isn't THAT bad... is it? The whole idea of it was dumb, and I think made for men, and that isn't fair to us female fans of Tales From The Crypt... am I missing something? Well, maybe the boss the cryptkeeper IS a guy, I guess he has say-so about what is put in the movies... "},{"Title":"Incredibly schlocky, but fun","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" BORDELLO is far inferior to FROM DUSK TIL DAWN, which came out around the same time, but both have similar central ideas a bordello (well, in DAWN it was a strip bar) that's a front for vampires. This one's in the basement of a funeral home; Corey Feldman's an early victim. Dennis Miller (of all people -- was Jon Lovitz out sick that week?) is the PI who's looking into Feldman's disappearance for Erika Eleniak, a born-again type.Pluses include tons of gratuitous nudity, tons of gratuitous gore, Corey Feldman, who belongs in these kind of roles, Dennis Miller wisecracking his way through everything, a midget, a creepy old guy playing a necrophiliac, good uses of Thirty Days in the Hole and Ballroom Blitz, and Angie Everhart chewing the scenery. Minuses include too much Chris Sarandon, too much of the spectacularly unfunny Cryptkeeper, not nearly enough vampire sex to suit me (we're in a bordello, c'mon), and a bit too much lazy we know it sucks, just ride with it vibe for my taste.So it's not a schlock masterpiece. But its fun, and even it's tongue in cheek tone is preferable to the self-serious schlock one puts up with nowadays. "},{"Title":"Good Bloody Fun.","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Blood, breasts, vampires and Chris Sarandon. How can you go wrong?Bordello of Blood, the second Tales From The Crypt feature film, supplies the viewer with ample amounts of all of the above, leaving room for little else. What it lacks in story, it more than makes up for in its cheap thrills, and as far as midnight guilty pleasures go, this one is about as good as it gets.The story revolves around a good-girl (Erika Eleniak) whose delinquent brother (Corey Feldman) goes missing. Upon hiring a wise-cracking private detective, it is revealed that a local morgue is housing a brothel run by a gang of beautiful but deadly vampires. Armed with super-soakers full of holy water and with the help of a guitar-slinging reverend (Chris Sarandon), the two set out to put the joint out of business once and for all.Dennis Miller is essentially playing himself, but keeps the humor pumping through the film's ridiculous premise. Chris Sarandon, likewise, is in top form as the genre hero he truly is. As mentioned before, there's plenty of bare-flesh and red-stuff to go around, and if that sort of thing is your bag, you'll have a blast with Bordello of Blood. Take it for the cheap thrill ride it is. "},{"Title":"Dennis Miller rules!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is funny as hell and has tons of gore, why don't people like this?  The great Chris Sarandon is also in this(Fright Night) and we get to see one of the Coreys play a fun vampire.  Oh yeah, there are hundreds of hot women with breast implants running around naked and exploding.  This movie is awesome! "},{"Title":"Funny...trashy, but funny","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Before I write this interview, I wanted to just explain that I have been a Dennis Miller fan since I was 11 (1994), and he was the only reason I saw this movie. I also think he was one of the aspects of this movie that held redeeming value. In addition, purchased it new for less than $10 a few years ago, and it is in my Halloween movie collection. With that out of the way, I'll start my review.Vampress Lilith (Angie Everhart) is brought to life again after a long rest in one of the far corners of the world by Reverend Jimmy Current (Chris Sarandon) and his partner Vincent. The two establish a bordello disguised as a funeral home to attract evil local young men. The men can get stiff among the stiffs, but men start disappearing. This disappearance of local young men hits close to home for Katherine Verdoux(Erika Eleniak) when her rebellious younger brother Caleb (Corey Feldman) goes missing. So, she hires a Rafe Guttman (Dennis Miller) a wisecracking, seedy private investigator with good intentions and a quite unusual case--all involving this mortuary with secrets. Rafe and Katherine put themselves into a mystery that crosses the boundary of the living and the dead--rather, the undead.This movie, thought quite funny, is a bad movie. That's just how it is. Going into this movie, the title itself is an indication of how trashy or bad it really is. But man, is it a fun trip! I found myself laughing at pretty much all the right scenes and all the right lines. Its as though the lines are tailored for Miller himself, it is perfect shtick for him. Most of the movies he's been in had parts written especially for him, but this was perfect. My first impression of Rafe is that he's a jerk, but I discovered (rather quickly) that he is rather good-natured and good-intentioned, and that he truly wants to help Katherine out.There are two scenes I absolutely loathed about this movie--the scene where Lilith encounters Rafe in his office (I turn the channel off or fast-forward the tape), and the opening scene of the movie where Lilith is discovered by Rev. Current and Vincent (this is only watchable once). Otherwise, this movie is quite funny and interesting if you plan on getting into it. My biggest beef (spoiler) is that we don't even meet our hero until roughly 20 minutes into the movie! When you're first billed, doesn't this mean you'll show up earlier in the film? I guess someone missed one of the most important parts of film-making, or at least credit order. But, its OK, really, it's not the worst thing about the film.This is essentially a bad movie. I read another review that says that it seems Dennis Miller is letting the viewers know this. He sure is! This is one of those so-bad-it's-funny kind of movies (why it used to be in the horror section of the video store I have no idea). However, Dennis Miller is hysterical in it!! I loved his moments--he had a lot of good ones.I liked when he goes to the Cunningham wake, and watches as the men lift the coffin out of the room, but struggle with it. Guttman, observing the scene, says Wow, she really was a heavyweight. He does make some of the most classically bad facial expressions I have witnessed in a long time (honestly, after seeing this, I want to know what acting school I have to go to just to learn to Act the Dennis Miller Way). My favorite scenes are the Super Soaker scene (I won't divulge on this too much, not to spoil it, but it is a classic scene not to me missed), the scene where he sneaks back into the mortuary to investigate, and when Rafe heads into the coffin drop to visit the Bordello.So why 7 out of 10 stars? One point deducted for the opening scene, which tends to be long and drawn-out. Watch this once, and you'll understand what is going on. What redeems this film is that after this point in the film, it becomes better, and the plot begins to move a little. One the same point, the entire first twenty minutes of the film is a complete drag. Skip the introduction on the next viewing. Another point deducted for the scene where Lilith encounters Rafe in his office--this scene is just a complete turn-off to me (2, 4, 6, 8--You can watch me masturbate!--yuck). And a third point deducted for the nudity. Yes, I know, it's a bordello, yes, they're supposed to be nude. But, I 'm a female, and I don't take pleasure in watching naked women prance around. But, I'm flexible, so I pushed past that dislike and ignored it. The bad acting isn't even a negative--it adds to the movie's silly nature.This is a great Halloween movie, but non-Dennis Miller fans may be turned off by it. Maybe not, I don't know. The acting is pretty bad, but that's the point--it's not Oscar-caliber material. I highly recommend this movie--it has its moments that make is memorable (probably not for all the right reasons, but it tries). Some classic scenes make it funny, and you just may watch it more than once (I have!). Just try not to read too much into it. It really is quite an enjoyable diversion. "},{"Title":"Bordello of Blood in one scene","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bordello of Blood is about a Christian woman (Erika Eleniak) who is looking for his missing goth brother (Corey Feldman) and therefore hires a private detective to find him (Dennis Miller). It turns out that the women of the bordello are vampires, and the place is being run by a Reverend (Chris Sarandon) who wants to get rid of sinners.Lots of comments deal with the fact that this movie is gory and filled with nudity; it's true, and I think there is a scene that captures its spiritDennis Miller and the Reverend, decide to kill Lilith (Angie Everhart), the leader of the vampires. Of course, they have to deal with the vampire women in the house first, so the decide to carry...Waterguns filled with Holy Water!!! Then all hell breaks loose they shoot their water guns at the nude women, who explode into guts or get caught on fire after being hit. This happens while Ballroom Blitz is being played.Overall Bordello of Blood its not as scary as it is silly. Dennis Miller is great as the detective, and there is a cameo appearance by Whoopi Goldberg as a patient in a hospital. "},{"Title":"Funny Black Comedy with a Great Conclusion","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The dwarf Vincent Prather (Phil Fondacaro) leads an expedition to the Tierra del Fuego following an ancient map. He arrives at a cave where there is a coffin instead of a treasure. He opens a box with four pieces of a heart and revives the mother of all vampires Lilith (Angie Everhart) that kills his employees. Vincent uses a key artifact with blood to control and protect himself from Lilith.The punk Caleb Verdoux (Corey Feldman) has an argument with his sister Katherine Verdoux (Erika Eleniak ) and leaves their house to go to a bar to meet a friend. They learn that there is an amazing brothel at 325 Beaumont, a funeral home where they should ask for the Cunningham Wake. They are received by the mortician McCutcheon (Aubrey Morris) and soon they go to the brothel. However Lilith runs the place and the girls are vampires. Caleb's friend is killed by Lilith that that rips his heart out of his chest and then Caleb is attacked by her.Katherine goes to the precinct to report that her brother is missing but the police officer does not give much attention to her. The private investigator Rafe Guttman (Dennis Miller) overhears her conversation and offers his services to Katherine. The snoopy Rafe tracks Caleb's path and he discovers that the brothel seems to be a lair of vampires. But Katherine, who works with Reverend Current (Chris Sarandon) that has a business connection with Lilith, does not believe in his word. Now Rafe is seeking evidences to prove to Katherine that he is telling the truth. Bordello of Blood is an underrated gore comedy of vampires. The plot is funny, with beautiful and hot female vampires, and also with a great unexpected conclusion. The comedy is a funny parody of horror and crime genres with the sexy Angie Everhart and Erika Eleniak. But Dennis Miller steals the movie in the role of a sleazy but efficient private eye. Lilith's tongue reaching the heart of her victims is hilarious; however the funniest scene is when Rafe teams up with Reverend Current and they use squirt guns with holy water to defeat the female vampires, exploding them. When the viewer expects a happy ending, with the good guy and the good girl together, there is an unforeseen conclusion. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Bordel de Sangue (The Brothel of Blood) "},{"Title":"You Might Get Infected By Just Watching.","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dennis Miller tries to stop a group of female bi-sexual vampires (led by the ultra-erotic Angie Everhart) who pose as prostitutes at a funeral home that acts as a front for a supposed prostitution ring. By the way, I am completely serious. Bordello of Blood is a crazed mess that is so hilarious because of its stupidity that it nearly becomes a deceptive winner. This is the second film of the mid-1990s from The Tales From the Crypt HBO series (the equally under-achieving Demon Knight was released in 1995). I personally like this picture a little more because it does not take itself too seriously and almost works better as a parody. However the film never rises from its very odd premise as its tone is unclear and the immensely funny situations are sometimes over-shadowed by very graphic violence and constant sexual situations. Arguably Miller's finest performance (go figure that one too) and the steamy vampires are not quite enough to keep Bordello of Blood from needing a shot for its STDs (Seriously Tedious Dilemmas). 2 stars out of 5.    "}{"Title":"A stupid movie that is fun to watch.  Not as good as Demon Knights.","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bordello of Blood-1996-Dennis Miller, Erika Eleniak, Chris Sarandon, Aubrey Morris, Corey Feldman, Angie Everhart, Phil Fondacaro, John Kassir(as the cryptkeeper) and William Sadler(as the mummy).This is a very silly movie. After Katherine's(Eleniak) Gothic brother Kaleb(Feldman) goes missing, she calls on an investigator Rafe Guttman(Miller) to find him. The search ends at a whore house where he had gone earlier in the film. Chris Sarandon is so funny and over the top and really steals the show. He plays a crooked priest that sends sinners to their death at a bordello that Kaleb had gone to earlier. Angie Everhart plays the head vampire Lillith and is one of the worst actresses ever so lucky for you, she isn't in all that much of it, but she is in too much. The film has the minor subplot opening and closing of the cryptkeeper at a café with his old friend the mummy talking about how their tomb isn't big enough for the both of them.My rating-6/10. rated R for nonstop nudity and sexual humor, strong language, some gory violence and a scene with some crude fart jokes. "},{"Title":"Decent, campy, vampire flick from the HBO Series.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A wise-cracking sleazy Private Eye Rafe Guttman (Dennis Miller) is been hired from a born again lady (Erika Eleniak) to find her punk goth brother (Corey Feldman). Rafe discovers an bordello, which it's also a funeral home. Then he meets the seductive Lillith (Angie Everhart), who's actually Queen of the Vampires. Her sexy employees are also vampires, which they seduced lonely or horny mens for survival. Now Rafe has to destroy Lillith before it's too late.Directed by Gilbert Alder made an watchable tongue in cheek horror/comedy from the popular HBO series. Which it was inspired by the horror comic books of the 1950's of the same title Tales from the Crypt. The cast seems to be having a great time here, including Chris Sarandon (Who played an seductive vampire in Fright Night) and Phil Fondacaro as Vincent. Especially when Miller and Sarandon are destroying Vampires with Supersoakers. This is the second film from what it meant to be a trilogy. Which the first movie was Demon Knight, it was a modest box office success. When Bordello of Blood flopped at the box office, the third film never happened sadly.Perphas the problem with the picture, it's the script by the director and A L Katz. It's never as good or amusing as we hoped to be. Although the story credit came from Bob Gale (Back to the Future Trilogy, Trespass, Used Cars) and Oscar-Winner DirectorRobert Zemeckis (Beowulf, Cast Away, The Polar Express). Probably if Gale and Zemeckis wrote the script instead, this could have been a much enjoyable movie. Which they wrote excellent scripts together. The film is occasionally funny and Miller does his best by making this fun. There's enough campy sleaze, dark humour, in-jokes and gore by seeing this uninspired picture worth a look. The motion picture soundtrack of the movie is a lot better than the movie to some degree. William Sadler and Oscar-WinnerWhoopi Goldberg appears in amusing cameos. (***/*****). "},{"Title":"Disposable entertainment","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales from the Crypt Presents Bordello of Blood is a very funny vampire movie.**SPOILERS**Katherine Verdoux's, (Erika Eleniak) brother, Caleb, (Corey Feldman) goes missing one night, and she decides to hire private eye Rafe Guttman, (Dennis Miller) and through his course of investigations, he finds that Caleb visited a special mortuary in town. He discovers that a mysterious woman, Lilith, (Angie Everhart) runs the special room under the mortuary, which is actually a secret brothel for vampires. Convincing the skeptical Katherine to join him in exposing it's secret, they raid the mortuary and fight their way out from the vampires inside.The Good News Well, this was an unexpected surprise. I'm normally not the biggest fan of vampire movies, and this one is a lot of fun to watch. It's a goofy, entertaining film that doesn't really offer more than disposable viewing. The plot moves along at fast enough pace where something is always going on and it keeps the interest level very high. The film is also pretty gory, and it has a lot of blood spilled. Decapitations, staking, hearts ripped out, and bodies set on fire that it's just an over-the-top gore display. There's something here for every type of gore-fan, and nothing is left uncovered or unattempted. It's a great film for gore-hounds. The Tales from the Crypt tag gives it a comedic tag, and for the most part, it's also very funny. The jokes fly nonstop, have a nice sharp turn to them, and actually get more than just a chuckle from them. It's a def mix of the two, and is even more remarkable in that it pulls it off so well. The action is also pretty fast and furious. The ending assault in the bordello is a great example, keeping it from being overly gruesome while also maintaining the sharp collection of explosions, guts and gore that the rest of the film has. Most important, though, is it's cheese appeal. It's not a very strong story, and more than a few moments are there just for a cheesy feel to them, and it makes the film that much better.The Bad News There really wasn't a while lot not to like about this one. It's basically just a fan-friendly film that features enough to entertain without requiring extensive over-analyzing. It's the type of film that will appeal to those who like it and will be criticized because of it.The Final Verdict Sure, this is a cheesy B-movie, but it's chock full of what makes those kinds of films fun. It's violent, funny, and more, and is just supposed to be a fun time. Take it as that, and it becomes a much more fun time.Rated R Nudity, Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, fetish sex acts and mild drug use "},{"Title":"Who doesn't like a good piece of cheese?","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's face it...this was a B-movie, Universal just put some more money into it.  They massacred the vampire lore, but since this is a B-movie, it doesn't matter.  Dennis Miller is hilarious as always; and what cheesy horror flick is genuine without Corey Feldman.  The only discrepancy I have with this movie are the Cryptkeeper segments.  They were just a remake of a Cryptkeeper segment from a TV episode.  The only difference was that William Sadler was dressed up as the mummy instead of the Grim Reaper (a reprisal of his role in Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey). "},{"Title":"You're reminding me why being married to you drove me to the brink of homosexuality.","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Private eye Rafe Guttman (Dennis Miller) is hired by Katherine Verdoux (Erika Eleniak) to find her missing brother Caleb (Corey Feldman). Rafe's search leads him to a brothel run by centuries-old vampire Lilith (Angie Everhart). The second of the 'Tales from the Crypt Presents' movies is nowhere near as good as the criminally underrated Demon Knight. It's not a scary movie, nor does it really try to be. It's a comedy, with Dennis Miller having a ball throwing out one liner after one liner. If only the rest of the movie matched his performance. The story is so slight you'll wonder if the entire script was jotted down on a napkin. The movie's primary selling point is sex and nudity, of which there is not a lot. Especially disappointing when you consider that the two most well-known women in the film, Everhart and Eleniak, never appear nude. Still, a fun tone with a great turn by Miller makes it worth watching once. "},{"Title":"Enough words to meet the requirements for a review","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The only problem with this movie is Dennis Miller. Well, then there is Corey Feldman, O.K. the only two problems with this movie are Dennis Miller and Corey Feldman. The actual story, y'know, the story the producers should have gone with, is the story of the TV preacher played by Chris Sarandon and his deal with Angie Everhart's Lilith. That's the story, that's where all the life is. Dennis Miller seems merely inserted into the action, like he got some points in his contract where he gets his own movie in exchange for services to be rendered later, so he is retrofitted into some script, in this case a Tales From The Crypt thing. It all comes off so forced and superfluous to the plot. That and Dennis Miller has no charisma, he's is an unpleasant little man devoid of life and vitality. But you do get to see some titties. "},{"Title":"Reasonably entertaining campy vampire tale.","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bordello of Blood does offer some undemanding B movie entertainment, even if it's never quite as much fun as one might like it to be. At least it never pretends to take itself very seriously, and star Dennis Miller, playing wise ass, low rent private eye Rafe Guttman, apparently concocted much of his sardonic dialogue himself. Rafe is hired by uptight Katherine Verdoux (Erika Eleniak) to locate her indolent brother Caleb (a well cast Corey Feldman), and tracks him to the mortuary, doubling as a bordello, where Caleb is last seen, tangling with evil boss vampire Lilith (Angie Everhart) and teaming up with slick televangelist J.C. Current (Chris Sarandon). While it's not really all that funny, the attempt by Miller and company to give their material that tongue in cheek flavour is still appreciated. Things get off to a fine start with The Crypt Keeper joined by a mummy, played by the ever dependable William Sadler, the hero of the first 'Tales from the Crypt' movie, Demon Knight. The actors are all quite entertaining to watch. The casting of Sarandon is a decent in-joke seeing that he was the charming vampire-next-door in Fright Night and is one of the vampire slayers here. Feldman fans may be disappointed that he's only around for the first and final thirds, but he IS a hoot and makes the most of his brief screen time. Sexy Everheart clearly is relishing the role of the blood sucking babe; she, Eleniak, Kiara Hunter, Leslie Ann Phillips, and Juliet Reagh provide delectable eye candy. Supporting performances by Aubrey Morris (as McCutcheon) and Phil Fondacaro (as Vincent) are quite amusing. The gore effects are very entertaining and the soundtrack features some solid vintage and then-current rock tunes. Gilbert Adler, one of the producers of the TV series, made his feature film directing debut here, and does a decent job. Overall, the movie is a perfectly acceptable combination of sex, gore, and humour, and the pacing stays pretty consistent throughout. It's not as good as Demon Knight, but it's not bad either. Be sure to watch out for the uncredited cameo appearance by Oscar winning actress Whoopi Goldberg. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Dennis Miller Vehicle","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What at 1st I thought was going to be a disappointing film, really surprised me and had my laughing as well as almost getting scared. Dennis Miller stole the show, even with the bordello full of beauties, Erika Eleniak, Angie Everhart and others, Dennis is in top notch form as the new Bob Hope in this gore & breast fest of one liners and jabs at the vampire world in general.You don't need to know the plot, you won't even care, if you want to laugh and get a bit scared, this is a great film to do that. Corey Feldman plays a misguided brother of Sweet Erika and Dennis Miller plays the Private Detective who is as funny as he is broke, hanging out at police stations looking for work...He needs to gain some respectability and Erika gives him the chance...You need to watch this film if you are a fan of the genre, Dennis had to be ad libbing, and as usual he is a excellent with puns & one liners...plainly the man is a comedic genius. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Demon Knight, but well worth watching.","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was the second Tales From The Crypt film, released only a year after the first, the excellent Demon Knight with Billy Zane and William Sadler. That film was truly an excellent start, but I think they rushed it a bit by throwing this one out less than a year later. The Crypt Keeper needs to rest too...And maybe if this film hadn't failed at the box office, we might have got another season out of the show. At this stage, it was still running strong, with guest actors like Ewan McGreggor and Joe Pesci. Anyhow, yeah, the movie.What's evident from the start is that Bordello of Blood is totally tongue-in-cheek. It's all slapstick humour, witty/sharp lines, there's nothing serious here - no room for any of the trademark Crypt horror or tension from the first. It's about a placid detective (Dennis Miller, kickin ass I must say) investigating the disappearance of some horny young fella (played by clearly-not-a-teen-anymore Corey Feldman - haha, he's in a movie again!) which leads him to some kind of vampire brothel where the girls don't just take your money, they bleed you dry! From the trailer I had my doubts about Dennis Miller, but I must say he's rather charismatic as the sarcastic sleazebag Detective Rafe Guttman. He doesn't show too much depth, but that's not what this films about, he's just there to keep you smirking away. Chris Sarandon plays some cop.. I don't remember who he is, but his name sounds familiar. Hey, look, it's Corey Feldman!! I'm glad to see he's getting a role in something decent in the 90s, but this guy was.. well, really crap. Maybe it's just how his character was written, but come on, Corey. Ya gotta stop sucking if you want more roles like The Lost Boys. Get your own adult animated comedy or something, just forget about the past. You're too old to be playing The Kid Who Killed Jason in Friday the 13th Part 4 by now. The female stars are the vampires, including supermodel Angie Evahart, and there's a solid main performance by Erika Eliniak, Corey Feldman's sister - but ya gotta wonder why Corey's parents aren't too concerned about his disappearance. Why does his sister have to cover his ass? Also present is Tales From The Crypt veteran William Sadler. Ya gotta love this guy for his devotion! He's appeared in more than one episode (I think), and both films by now! Although he was just a mummy, and I don't remember him, it kicks ass that he's there!...man! John Kassir plays the Crypt Keeper, and ya gotta love how the films are introduced and ended exactly like the episodes are, with Kassir's appearance. I know many dislike the Crypt Keeper, and I can see where they're coming from, but I've always dug the guy. He's as sharp as ever here, with his usual legendary one liners.. (Quit while you're a-head..) Neither of the Crypt films truly captured the show, but that's probably because of their length that the screenplays get a bit drawn out to fill it. And like the first film, this runs short at only 87 mins - a good thing too, any longer would have been too long.This was great fun to watch, and much better than I'd anticipated after it's score here. I recommend buying the Region 1 DVD which has this and the first film, Demon Knight. Two films on one disc for $15, that's value right? "},{"Title":"Fun and cheesy B-movie flick","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well this is fun. Admittedly you have to be in the mood for a cheesy, somewhat silly B-movie horror flick but if you're in the right frame of mind this will do the trick.Also, maybe it's better that you're somewhat fond of Dennis Miller, since he basically carries this vampire flick. He's never out of character and if you've seen him once on The O'Reilly Factor...that's in short what you'll get.The story here...well, Miller plays a P.I. who uncovers a brothel full of vampires. In the great Tales from the Crypt tradition, this is full of great gore, low-brow humor and and a twist ending to boot.The cast here is great, with lovely eye-candy's courtesy of Angie Everhart and Erika Eleniak, the slightly-better-half of the Corey's (that reminds me, I have to dig up Licence to Drive one of these days) and the sorely underrated Chris Sarandon hamming it up as a crazy preacher doin' the Lord's work in inventive ways.While not as successful as Demon Knight, Bordello of Blood is a fun horror flick that packs in a good dose of silly humor and gore. What's not to like? "}{"Title":"Tales from the Crypt Bordello of Blood","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another tongue in cheek blood 'n' guts rampage this time including lots of tits 'n' ass too...so its pretty darn good then. An unoriginal vampire tale this time, set in a brothel with lots of ladies eating biker types much like 'From Dusk Till Dawn' or 'Vamp' but nowhere near as good.Plot is pretty standard but like the previous Crypt flick is does have a wonderful array of makeup and prosthetic effects all over the show with blood squirting and fangs flying, nothing you haven't seen before but it looks good. Casting is drab but does include 80's horror comedy star Sarandon and 80's teen star Feldman both of which raise the film slightly, Angie Everhart looks delicious as 'Lilith'.You know what your gonna get with this franchise so your either gonna love it or hate it. Personally I view these films as a great opportunity to see fantastic examples of hands-on horror makeup effects, normally without much CGI, plus they are always good fun on a no-brainer level.6/10 "},{"Title":"salad","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" crime, sex,comedy/ parody, crazy work, mixture of different ingredients and ambiguous result. a film who use pieces from few genre movies for a show who can have many interpretations. because, in fact, it is a game between Eleniak and Everhardt, a ball of sex and religion, old myths and clash of imagination. only the firm of Crypt does the things reasonable. but the desire to present all in a kind of labyrinth, a puzzle with too many pieces who can be, in same measure, a bad film or an exotic parody not seems be the inspired choice. sure, it is only a joke. not comfortable for many viewers but a common MTV mark product , strange but amusing if the humor spirit is not lost. "},{"Title":"Oh my God, it's a necrophiliac's wet dream!","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With Dennis Miller, you can expect that this will not be the usual Vampire movie. He makes constant references to movies, TV stars, and other personalities throughout. It is hard to believe that he didn't get writing credit as i imagine many of the lines were his. That's just a guess.Dennis certainly has his eyes on Erika Eleniak (Under Siege) throughout, as do we. Unfortunately, that is reserved for Steven Seagal.It also features Angie Everhart (First to Die) as the head vampire. The first fire-top on Glamour magazine, Angie didn't give us the display she had in Jade, but she was hot hot hot throughout. Unfortunately, she was really hot towards the end.Lots of gore and sexual innuendo.We did get treats from Kiara Hunter as Tamara, Leslie Ann Phillips as Patrice, and Juliet Reagh as Tallulah. "},{"Title":"Atrocious","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Words cannot describe just how bad this thing is. The plot is nonsensical, the characters empty, the dialogue beyond moronic, the action boring, the scares non-existent, the humour completely absent. Add to that poor direction and some of the most confusing editing ever witnessed in cinema... This is an orgy of stupidity and bad taste. It boggles the mind how a project like this ever got greenlighted.Nothing in this film makes sense and apart from the stupidity one can't help but notice the nudity. I suppose the target audience for this were males between the ages of 12 and 16, with raging hormones, IQ below 70, and no sex life. "},{"Title":"The Cheesy, Lesser of Two Movies","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The cryptkeeper (John Kassir) returns to tell the story of a funeral parlor that moonlights as a vampire bordello.The story of this film's creation and why it failed is amazing. It all starts with a script called Dead Easy, which was a psychological thriller, and time was spent on it scouting locations in New Orleans. Then Universal pulled the plug because they had to do Bordello of Blood. Producer A. L. Katz had no interest in Bordello, but had to listen to his bosses. Why was Universal so insistent on Bordello?Because in order to keep Robert Zemeckis at Universal, which was seen as necessary, Universal agreed to option the very first script he and Bob Gale wrote together in film school, Bordello of Blood. A.L. Katz and Gilbert Adler rewrote the mess of a script and Adler (who had plenty of experience from the show) directed. Producer Joel Silver wanted very badly to cast Dennis Miller in the lead role. Katz says, I don't know that Dennis Miller was ideal casting. And further, Miller wanted nothing to do with the film. Rather than just turn them down flat, he said he would only do it if they paid him $1 million, which was absurd at the time, especially considering the film's low budget. Silver insisted, so Katz and Adler (who had no interest in Miller) had to ask Universal for the money, which they were not willing to do. They then said they had to take the extra money from elsewhere in the budget, which primarily meant the special effects. Even after getting the million dollars, Miller put no effort into his role and would not even read the correct lines. If any one factor can be blamed for this film's ultimate failure, it was Silver's love affair with Miller this caused a budget crisis and put the lead role in the hands of someone who wanted nothing more than to be somewhere else.Amazingly, Silver-Miller was not the only problem. For example, because the studio was in a fight with the union, the production was moved to Vancouver, which does not work well for horror films in summer, complete night only lasts three hours, making night shots almost impossible. Katz recalls, It was like a painful colonoscopy every day... like standing there waiting to be shot at.But look at this amazing cast Chris Sarandon, Corey Feldman, Dennis Miller, Angie Everhart, William Sadler and more... just wanted to point that out. Despite an overall bad film, this cast simply guarantees an enjoyable performance here and there.The film borrows somewhat from Night Shift (using a funeral home as a source of prostitution), and parallels Dusk Till Dawn with its use of loose women as vampires. I say parallels because the films came out the same year and I will just have to assume that any similarity in idea was purely coincidental.I do love that Feldman was quoted as saying Miller was a jerk on set. While I do not doubt this, as everyone seems to be in agreement, Feldman himself has quite the reputation for being disrespectful to his fans. (I could share stories about his behavior at conventions, but that would be personal and beside the point.) Perhaps the most interesting thing about this film is that apparently Jewish Stars of David have no affect on vampires whereas crosses do. This suggests that the Jewish faith is false and Christianity is the true way. Maybe I am assuming too much, but I have always found that fascinating how vampire tales reinforce the Christian religion, despite vampires themselves not being a part of the Bible.Despite the film being a cheesy, steamy pile of horse apples, it may actually be one of Scream Factory's best releases yet. The Katz commentary is incredible and priceless, covering the movie, television show, the world of horror TV, and he is brutally honest in his comments. You can learn more about film-making in 90 minutes listening to this commentary than you ever would in film school.There is also a great making-of documentary on the Blu-ray. Along with Katz are actors Corey Feldman and William Sadler, among others. There is even editor Stephen Lovejoy and effects creator Todd Masters. Everything you could want to know about this movie and its hurdles is here. Dennis Miller is conspicuously absent, and it would be nice to hear his side of things, but maybe it is more fun just hearing everyone else bash him. "},{"Title":"Amazing for real black comedy/ horror movie lovers","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you love horror movies like me, you'll love this flick. It is everything a real horror/ comedy buff can expect1. Cool jokes and gore galore; 2. Beautiful naked girls; 3. Creepy evildoers and sinister places; 4. Great heroes and Super villains; 5. A lot of profanity and cool deaths; 6. Nice old school special effects - and best of all  no CGI!!! and good acting throughout the movie ) 7. Sexy/ hot/ lustful blood-thirsty vampires.Don't expect1. The answer to deep (pseudo)philosophical questions, food for thought or fake /teen horror; 2. It is neither for the squeamish nor the highbrow; 3. Oscar award BS material; 4. Fake CGI blood; 5. Dream-like sequences BS;All in all, just for those who love horror! ) "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Good News Well, this was an unexpected surprise. I'm normally not the biggest fan of vampire movies, and this one is a lot of fun to watch. It's a goofy, entertaining film that doesn't really offer more than disposable viewing. The plot moves along at fast enough pace where something is always going on and it keeps the interest level very high. The film is also pretty gory, and it has a lot of blood spilled. Decapitations, staking, hearts ripped out, and bodies set on fire that it's just an over-the-top gore display. There's something here for every type of gore-fan, and nothing is left uncovered. It's a great film for gore-hounds. The Tales from the Crypt tag gives it a comedic tag, and for the most part, it's also very funny. The jokes fly nonstop, have a nice sharp turn to them, and actually get more than just a chuckle from them. It's a def mix of the two, and is even more remarkable in that it pulls it off so well. The action is also pretty fast and furious. The ending assault in the bordello is a great example, keeping it from being overly gruesome while also maintaining the sharp collection of explosions, guts and gore that the rest of the film has. Most important, though, is it's cheese appeal. It's not a very strong story, and more than a few moments are there just for a cheesy feel to them, and it makes the film that much better. http//matcao.comThe Bad News There really wasn't a while lot not to like about this one. It's basically just a fan-friendly film that features enough to entertain without requiring extensive over-analyzing. It's the type of film that will appeal to those who like it and will be criticized because of it.The Final Verdict Sure, this is a cheesy B-movie, but it's chock full of what makes those kinds of films fun. It's violent, funny, and more, and is just supposed to be a fun time. Take it as that, and it becomes a much more fun time. "},{"Title":"As funny as Eyes Wide Shut with about the same amount of nudity and half of the time!","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales From the Crypt should always be taken for what it is... entertainment in horror fashion by appealing to underage people with juvenile humor and absurd plots. And I down that spoonful every time. The running time flies by without hesitation that I have repeated viewings of this movie to see what I missed, and it has grown on me as if Angie Everheart's fangs have sunken themselves into my jugular. Angie's acting is horrendous as this is her feature debut but as long as her body talks who cares what is said. Dennis Miller provides his own variation to the know-it-all gumshoe, but could've faired better by losing the tight stonewashed jeans and slipped into some slacks. His humor goes beyond the average 16 year old that this film should've based its audience around, but he is trying to reach a higher level after all above this schlock. Erika Elenik as a televangelist producer... spot on in the absurdity! Corey Feldman and Chris Sarandon were apparently in on the joke for they just absorb the role and play it for the s**t and giggles as it is. Being a self-professed TFTC fanatic, I enjoyed the in-jokes that are within this movie (especially the key from Demon Knight) but the in-jokes were not essential as they are to other films (such as Kevin Smith flicks). This movie was never aimed to mentally impair you with horrific images, it was made for the fore-mentioned crowd and should be taken in that same vein... just make sure Angie Everheart is sucking from it "},{"Title":"Angie Everhart would never be attracted to Dennis Miller.","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Why couldn't have people thought this up before 1996? You know, putting Dennis Miller in a horror/comedy where he has the chance of being eaten? Alas, this isn't for real and so Dennis Miller's chances of dying aren't as high.This all surrounds a woman/vampire, Angie Everhart, who was brought back to life doing the work of a televangelist in a whore house/mortuary. Yes its a little corny but you have to work with it. A secret whore house at a mortuary is a little odd.Like all movies of this caliber, it seems like the problem is solved. But only there is a small twist at the end. The twist is not entirely unexpected as is even modestly funny. But that is all I can give it.Overall, the effects don't live up to today's standards and maybe not even 1996 ones. But the story isn't bad and the acting is alright. So it turns out average, which is good for a B-movie like this. C "},{"Title":"If your a Vampire fanatic...","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bram Stoker's Dracula -------------------------------------------------Nosferatu -------------------------------------------------------------The Lost Boys ---------------------------------------------------------Fright Night ----------------------------------------------------------I have this thing for Vampire movies and I've got to say, I believe this one was a classic.Although it may not be so intriguing to those who are looking for an intellectual movie, if you like old classics, this may be the movie for you.Completed with comedic lines, gore that just doesn't impress the people of the millennium, and a classic Crypt Keeper ending twist, Bordello of Blood is a good watch. "}{"Title":"The lost boys meets Valley of the Dolls!!","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A lot people will disagree that this is no where near as good as Universal/ Tales from the Crypt first movie 'Demon Knight' - I personally think its just as good. OK so its not the best vampire flick ever made ( the lost boys, was better) but its pure fun - Did you honestly think any of the actors would take there roles that seriously in a tales from the crypt movie?? Angie Everhart is great as the wise cracking vamp and Erika Eleniak is not much different from her bay-watch character, so you can kind of get the idea what its going to be like - go in open minded and just go with the flow. These are the sort of films Corey Feldman ought to be in!! "},{"Title":"can I give you deep throat?","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was surprised to notice that this flick has a low rating. Overall the movie wasn't bad at all. But you have to understand Tales From The Crypt. It is more black comedy than horror of course, starting with the crypt keeper. So many people out there find that guy annoying. He doesn't bore me, I was lucky to meet the crypt keeper in real life, John Kassir is his name, a really nice guy. Why is everybody on his back? The movie itself is never gory of course but it delivers a lot of blood and in this case a lot of nudity, if you have the full uncut version, here in Europe the movie is cut with 20 minutes. Just for the tits, weird. It's full of one liners just like the crypt keeper himself, when the master vampire, who works at a bordello, puts her tongue into a guys throat she goes search his heart with her tongue, of course he dies, and she said, men likes women who goes deep throat. Another example is cutting of the head of a guy by saying, I love men giving me head. and that's what most people hate about this movie, the one liners. I though it was a great movie, great effects and great performances, sad but true, when I visited LA I visited the church used in this film, never saw Lilith... "},{"Title":"comes up a bit short, but tries","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is obviously a tongue in cheek scary movie, with lots of little jabs of humor at all walks of life. It plays few favorites, except perhaps favoring blondes, but it doesn't take itself serious enough to be a propaganda movie.It starts with a bit that comes into play later. Characters disappear and then reappear at the end. Meanwhile, the main characters are fairly enjoyable and amusing. So are the minor characters.A bordello of bloodsucking meanies finds victims from the town. A private investigator and a Jimmy Baker type evangelist lead the way into fighting them.It is mostly disjointed, and has some trivial chuckles, but no guffaws. It comes up a bit short, but everyone tries in this movie, and the performances are grand, which provides most of the chuckles. "},{"Title":"It's like I'm in a bad Tales from the Crypt episode. Fun... but not for everyone.","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bordello of Blood starts late one night as two drunken friends Caleb (Corey Feldmen) & Reggie (Matt Hill) get a tip from someone in bar about a funeral home that moonlights as a whorehouse nearby, they decide to pay it a visit. Several days later & Caleb's sister Katherine (Erika Eleniak) is worried since he she hasn't seen him since that night, she goes to the police but they aren't interested so she hires private investigator Rafe Guttman (Dennis Miller). Guttman follows a lead to the funeral home & quickly realise that something sinister is going on, after further investigation Guttman discovers that all the prostitutes that frequent the bordello are in fact blood sucking Vampires...Co-written, produced & directed by Gilbert Adler Bordello of Blood was the second in a planned but unfinished trilogy of Tales from the Crypt feature length horror films with the first being Tales from the Crypt Demon Knight (1995) which was better than this but having said that I still thought Bordello of Blood was fairly fun if a little dumb. The very light hearted script by Adler & co-producer A L Katz makes for a pretty cheesy horror film that seems to serve as nothing more than an excuse for some one-liners, some lowbrow humour & most importantly plenty of blood & breasts. The one thing that surprised me about this Tales of the Crypt film is that it is so far removed from the TV series which ran for ninety three episodes between 1989 & 1996, while all but one of the TV series episodes were actually based on a comic book story Bordello of Blood wasn't. While the majority of the TV series had a dark macabre atmosphere, often a jet black sense of humour & usually a just deserts twist ending Bordello of Blood has none of these things & the intriguing & imaginative stories have been replaced with a fairly moronic comedy tale of Vampire prostitutes. It certainly moves along at a nice pace, there's plenty of blood & breasts & sometimes the comedy works but the films only entertainment value comes from it's exploitation content.Director Adler does alright, it looks nice enough & is well made. There's some good gore, there are ripped out hearts, blood drinking, exploding & melting Vampires, a ripped off hand, a graphic scene of someone having their head torn off & there's plenty of blood splashed around. The breast content is high although according to the IMDb some TV versions replace these scenes with shots where the women are clothed, urgh hell no. It's surprising that with a creative producing team including Walter Hill, Richard Donner & especially Robert Zemeckis Bordello of Blood is such an unoriginal, brainless & moronic film. The film is inevitably bookended with the obligatory Crypt Keeper sequences filled with plenty of bad puns which are quite fun if your into that sort of thing.Technically the film is good & has that Hollywood polish about it. Ex Baywatch (1989 - 1992) babe Eleniak is easy on the eye while comic Dennis Miller is quite funny. Several cast members had already appeared in the Tales from the Crypt TV series including Corey Feldman who was in The Assassin (1994) from season six, Aubrey Morris was in 'Til Death (1990) from season two, Phil Fondacaro was in Food for Thought (1993) from season five, William Sadler was in The Assassin along with Feldman & the very first episode from the very first season The Man Who Was Death (1989) as well as being in the first Tales from the Crypt film Demon Knight while Whoopi Goldberg who makes an uncredited cameo was in Dead Wait (1991) during season three.Bordello of Blood is a fun little horror film that you don't have to think about too much to enjoy, just sit back & enjoy the blood & breasts. "},{"Title":"Stupid.....","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, this is definitely the dumbest movie I've ever seen since Satan's School for girls. No good violence, no vampire gorieness, no nothing. The graphics absolutely SUCKED. I hated it, on a scale of one to ten i'd rate it a two for originality. Okay, the gorieness part was untrue, there was a whole lot of ketchup (for the blood) you could tell it was ketchup, all they had to do was put some chunky stuff in there. lol. And it ended with the people walking away, and the girl of the whole thing was all happy and stuff that she got away from the vamps, then she showed the guy an upper part of her leg and she ended up being bitten and she didn't know it and she bit the guy while kissing him and then it ended. BOOOOOOOOOOO! I hated it... "},{"Title":"fun light entertainment... very flawed","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bordello of blood is missing something important...  it's like the actors all know they're in a bad movie,  and they want the audience to know that they know it... Especially Dennis Miller. He rushes through every scene like he's just trying to get the movie over with so he can save himself the embarrassment..That's the bad news... the good news is that bordello of blood is a funny movie, very funny at times. I loved Angie Everhart as the head honcho vampire hooker Lillith... she's sort of a trashy vampire with a mouth like a sailor and she has several funny scenes. Chris Sarandon is very good as the televangelist and provides plenty of laughs as well.The movie has a fair amount of gore and basically plays as a longish tails from the crypt episode. Light easy entertainment with goofy black humor and gross out moments. If I went to the theater to see this it would probably be a big disappointment, but it's worth watching on the tube or maybe even a rental.  "},{"Title":"Okay camp horror movie","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a horror movie that doesn't take itself seriously at all, Bordello is okay. It's hard to believe that Miller gives it such a hard time on his HBO show it's not bad for what it is a trashy little horror/humor/camp movie that gives Miller center-stage with his own brand of humorous asides. The ending is kinda twisty, Aubrey Morris' performance is downright weird but amusing, and there's plenty of new-style horror gore thrown in. The female leads are pretty much wasted, and there's way too much unnecessary nudity. Bordello's real problem is simply that it pales in comparison to the excellently done Demon Knight. It's basically a whole different, campy concept (and what's up with Will Sadler's wasted cameo as the Mummy?).  It's okay, but nothing special Dennis Miller fans will get a kick out of it. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun, T's and A's aplenty","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My second favorite vampire movie behind Dusk till Dawn. There are similarities between the two movies beside the obvious, they both have tongue-in-cheek humor, blood, gore and babes. Dennis Miller plays..... well, he basically plays himself minus the $5.00 college words as he's a down and out private eye. He has the best lines in the movie, hands down. If you like the first Dusk till Dawn movie, you should enjoy this.  "},{"Title":"Robert Zemeckis took part at this??","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Poor horror recommended only for real fans... other people would hate it. I still can't believe that Robert Zemeckis took part to this fiasco called Tales from the Crypt. A combination of some horror and some funny scenes, with a non-concludent plot and few twists and turns... this is good to watch only if you like special effects, with hearts torn out of chests, blood spreading everywhere and thirsty vampires. Still a horror must be a horror and if you try to combine one with comedy the result will s*ck. Still i liked the idea with the water guns ) funny. Vote 4 out of 10. Vote 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dennis Miller + vampires = Fun!","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dennis Miller finding himself stuck in a gore flick is much funnier than I expected.  Combine his sarcastic wit with a bunch of vampires and other things that go bump in the night and you'll have an idea of what you have to look forward to. Lots of blood, breasts and beasts for those who love such things, IYKWIM&ITYD.   "}{"Title":"Dennis Miller fans might enjoy it--a bit, but no one else will.","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is simply one more extremely bad vampire flick that occupies space in the Horror section of video stores. The notion of plot barely even punctures this movie. But Dennis Miller is, well, Dennis Miller. It is only because of him that I rented the movie, and only because of his wry, sarcastic comments that I finished watching it. If you're a Dennis Miller fan, then perhaps you should see Bordello of Blood. But don't rent it for its horror value--there is none. "},{"Title":"Not a bad vampire spoof","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dennis Miller was funny. The film was pretty good, but I would have preferred a more serious undertaking. Lots of good looking women, gruesome makeup, and campy devices made for a good time. Miller's character appealed to me; I like a tough, wise cracking detective with a heart of gold. I found the ending totally satisfying. "},{"Title":"Crypt Campiness May Have Gone Past My Limit.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let me first start this off by saying any movie with Corey Feldman in it will automatically lose one star from me. That done let me repair that by saying any film with Erika Eleniak in it will receive one bonus star.Tales From the Crypt's second feature is little more than a campy vampire tale. It is the tale of the Queen of the vampires 'Lillith' (erotically portrayed by the best looking redhead in film, Angie Everhart).Dennis Miller, is his wise cracking self throughout this movie. I wondered whether there was a script or not for him, as he just kid of flows through the film with jokes in every second line..perhaps he adlibbed the whole thing. Well, his character is a hardluck P.I. whom happens across a lovely lady in distress, the ever so religious Erika Eleniak.Eleniak's brother (Feldman) is missing. The cops are too overworked between meals so she decides to hire Miller. He finds out that her brother went to a vampire whorehouse. Chris Sarandon who played a T.V. Reverend in this movie plays a confusing character to me. Sometimes he seems the Swaggarty Bakerish type of corrupt evangelist, sometimes he seems like a crusader for God. Hard to tell. Regardless he didn't have a major role in the film.There is plenty of nudity in the film, and combined with Miller's and Everhart's (who looks gorgeous did I mention that...but could not tell a joke and act well) wisecracking made it a pretty campy affair. With all the nudity, they couldn't have shown it from one of the major stars like Eleniak or Everhart?? Come on Cryptkeeper get with it! It surprised me the way the Tales From the Crypt people have gone, especially after Demon Knight.It was cute seeing William Sadler return for a cameo. "},{"Title":"Undemanding schlock horror...","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bordello Of Blood is a somewhat disappointing follow up to the previous (and far superior) Tales From The Crypt feature Demon Knight. While it retains the possibly even more stupid and  irritating this time around Cryptkeeper mini sections at the beginning and end of the story it lacks Demon Knight's best attribute, a sharp, quality script, and a fun thrilling main story, which more than made up for having to endure the noxious Cryptkeeper last time out. Thats not to say that Bordello Of Blood is all bad, it's just nowhere near as good or as much fun as Demon Knight was.However Bordello Of Blood does have a few things going for it. A decent, suitably schlocky story premise (by Bob Gale and Robert Zemeckis no less), a hip attitude and a sense of camp fun about the whole proceedings, and most important of all actor Dennis Miller, for it is he and his great laid back performance that saves this film from sinking into mediocrity altogether.Dennis Miller is great fun as private eye Rafe Guttman, and he really does carry the film. The other performances range from good (Erika Eleniak) to bizarre (Chris Sarandon) to delightfully fun (Aubrey Morris) to frighteningly wooden (Angie Everhart and Corey Feldman). Then there's the direction.While Gilbert Adler's direction is technically fine, if at times a little too unrestrained, it sadly lacks any real sense of energy or character, and because of this the film just never feels quite right. While it could have been a very good fun little schlock fest instead it doesn't seem to quite know what it wants to be, and as such comes out as very uneven in tone, throwing the film off balance and not letting you just enjoy it for what it is (or should be), simple fun schlock horror.Despite it's problems Bordello Of Blood still manages to be an enjoyable tongue in cheek piece of hokum for lovers of the genre, but it's unlikely to convert anyone else, and isn't a patch on the first Crypt film. In spite of itself it did manage to hold my attention and mostly entertain during it's relatively short length, mainly due to the afore mentioned great performance of Dennis Miller, but it still should have delivered more than it manages to. Overall Bordello Of Blood manages to be suitably campy, undemanding fun but little more.One man's opinion. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't care what anyone say's this is a good movie. It's funny and really entertaining. There isn't a dull moment. But it doesn't really belong in the horror movie genre actually there is no genre for Horror/Comedy/Action/Porn.  "},{"Title":"One of my fav. horror movies","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie, I can watch it over & over. Dennis Miller should be in more movies, he is hilarious in this. I loved the first Crypt movie & love this one even more. Its scary & funny at the same time. It may have its cheesy moments but hey not every movie is perfect. The orchestral music throughout the film along with the awesome soundtrack give this movie an awesome feel to it. It has Graphic violence, language & nudity. Its worth seeing if you are a fan of D. Miller, like me or a horror/comedy fan. I want more Crypt movies NOW! "},{"Title":"Angie Everhart makes it worth while","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How often do you get a chance to see the most beautiful redhead that ever walked the Earth as a vampire? Exactly. Add a few funny one liners from the great Dennis Miller, some decent effects and semi-humorous story and you get exactly what you paid for on your local video store's dollar day! But try not to stare when Angie is on because your drool will short out your remote. Mine did..) 7/10 "},{"Title":"Should have been a trilogy......","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Corey Feldman is still depressed about not being in a film with Corey Haim for a while, so decides to go to a house of pleasure with some friends to relieve all the anxieties.Turns out its a cut price version of the bar from Dusk Til Dawn, minus Gringos and Salma Hayek.After a few days, his sister, Virginal Erika Eleniak (great casting), hires Dennis Miller (not famous in the UK) and decides to find out what happened and what is going on.Turns out Jerry Dandridge is now a priest and wants to get rid of all ill willers, but Lilith has other plans, but her heart needs to be cut in four, and it gets quite confusing.But to be fair, it's a pretty short film, and it's all good fun while it lasts. The cast, apart from Sarandon, are all pretty dire, even Feldman, and Miller, whoever he is just spouts out one liners every now and again, but I have this feeling he's a pretty big thing in the States, just like Alan Carr is here (exactley).If you like films that are easy on the eye, choc full of things for the lads, and never bothering the grey matter, you could do a lot worse than this.Otherwise, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Not as fun this time out.","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the second (though unrelated to the first film) installment of the feature length TALES FROM THE CRYPT movies, the CRYPT KEEPER once again tells us a scary story, this time instead of demons, we have vampires & a bunch of people banning together to save humanity from these evil creatures & their evil queen who runs a bordello. I really enjoyed the first installment of the feature length DEMON KNIGHT but was sadly disappointed (Somewhat) by this one, how it managed to get a theatrical release is beyond me, since this is pure B movie with lots of nudity, bad acting, gross special effects etc. I mean this looks like something that came from the likes of say, FRED OLEN RAY, JIM WYNORSKI or heck even ROGER CORMAN or CHARLES BAND! it has none of the scares, suspense, humor (Though there are moments) good acting & directing that the first had, nor any of the excitement & the climax is pathetic. ANGIE EVERHART does good as the evil queen & COREY FELDMAN is a hoot as the brother turned vampire of the lead heroine, but it just does not work. Good special effects though, but in all honesty this would probably have been more acceptable (& easier to take) had it went direct to video.**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Men versus Lady Vampires?","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I really like this movie, it reminded me of Demon Knight and it's just as great as Demon Knight. I really think that Corey Feldman is a sexy and cool dude! He's really cool in this film, and he was cooler from The Lost Boys and I think he's still the Prince of Scary Movies. He's also really good looking in his older age, I betcha all the girls, even his wife thought he's till good looking. Dennis Miller could be funny or should I say, Damn Funny! Thank you for the comment. I do believe that they should continue on doing the scary tales from the crypt.Signed, element_pharaohs "}{"Title":"Came on TV here 2 days ago","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now this film, although heavily flawed, i still think it was good for something you wanna rent on a mates night in. The film got me laughing through most of the last hour and although the blood n guts didn't really turn me on the constant interludes of T and A didn't receive any complaints from me.Dennis Miller's one liners and wise cracks made it seem as though the movie was made only for him since he was the only one that seemed as though he was taking the p**s whilst everyone else was just setting themselves up to have the p**s taken out of them as they acted camp or exaggerated their parts.This is definitely a film that bonds the feelings of guilt and pleasure as you watch it.I've never seen the other tales of the crypt episodes or the first film but i have to say i was quite entertained and definitely appreciated a break from all the heavy films i was watching previously.Also Angie Everhart is a stunner. It's gotta be said.  "},{"Title":"Shocking for All the Wrong Reasons","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The only thing that is shocking about this film is how bad it is. Spun off from the television series Tales From the Crypt, which was itself taken from the 1950s horror comic book series, this feature length tale involves a young woman hiring a disreputable private detective to find her missing brother. Whereas the television episodes, which ran for under half an hour, where usually dumb but fun, the film just ends up being dull. It feels like an average episode of the series that has been stretched out to feature length. The gory special effects are pretty average with plenty of tacky CGI.It's not scary at all, but then it's not really meant to be. There's far more humour than horror here. The cast mostly overact wildly and certainly get into the spirit of it all. Obviously none of the film is meant to be taken seriously.It's a film that I can imagine raising a few laughs late at night, if you're drunk.  "},{"Title":"Weak sequel","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Where to begin? This sequel was really lacking compared to Demon Night. The story was okay, not fantastic, but okay. There was to much of an emphasis on sex and violence though. The series and the first movie focused more on horror and comedy. Dennis Miller was pretty funny, but the Cryptkeeper was hysterical. The specials effects were excellent. This movie is really recommended to fans of the series. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, awful","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It was so cheesy and such a guy flick . It hardly had a plot and the female vampires were so trashy. They did not have to show all those top less woman (quote and quote vampires ) to influence the plot. It was not well thought-out and the effects were horrible, specially for a movie that isn't very old. It was also a really lame way to kill the vampires. It was also an awful way to exploit woman, but luckily a little bit of it was made up by the main female character. Woman be warned! "},{"Title":"Better than Demon Knight!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although I miss the evil Billy Zane, this is a fantastic horror film. Everything about it is great. Even has the (no offense) midget from Double, Double, Boil and Trouble. Dennis Miller is funny too and its not as intense as the original. "},{"Title":"From Dusk Till Dawn meets Sam Spade ?...","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With surprisingly good f/x and the deadpan one-liners of Dennis Miller as its biggest assets this makes for average entertainment for fans of the genre. In the supporting cast Chris Sarandon as a TV-evangelist vs. vampires should sound like great fun but it's no match for his memorable performance in that other bloodsucking feast; Fright Night. Still this feature presentation makes one crave for more fun from 'ye old Cryptkeeper. "},{"Title":"Bordello of Shame","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is great if you don't have any sleeping medication.  It will knock you out cold within the first ten minutes of viewing.  Not a worthy successor to the First Tales from the Crypt movie. "},{"Title":"the good the bad and the ugly","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is remarkably funny if you enjoy Dennis Miller's humor from Dennis Miller Live He's great in it.  Angie Everheart's humor just isn't funny, she's ok.  The effects and vampire mythology were so pathetic they were funny. "},{"Title":"Quite poor, even as a supposed comedy","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Filmed on what appears to be a massively low budget (is that a contradiction?) with a cast of Z-grade actors and a few famous-for-being-awful stars (ahem, Dennis Miller) this Tales from the Crypt spin-off is fairly entertaining but also, simply put...horrible.First of all it relies on excessive sex and language which isn't necessary at all and gives it a strange porno-vibe. It then tries to mock its own content with satirical self-referential jabs but what good do they do if the movie is falling victim to its own subject?Overall this is hardly a good movie at all with silly themes and a ridiculous plot. I can't say I expected much but I at least expected something fairly adventurous, whereas this is just entertaining for all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"Kitsch from the Crypt presents ...","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The hugely successful series 'Tales from the Crypt' always was average. For every great episode, there were two inferior ones and this trend seems to continue in their long feature movies. Demon Knight was fresh and surprisingly entertaining while this successor 'Bordello of Blood' is merely kitschy trash. Which doesn't mean it can't be fun, of course! This film is filled with gore, morbid humor and campy sleaze. In many ways, it reminded my about 70's cheapies and that's always a good thing. The plot is second to the eye-candy and handles about the reincarnation of vampire-queen Lillith who now runs a cheerful whorehouse in the catacombs of a funeral house. Lillith and her foxy hookers devour the male customers while a strict Catholic organization covers these actions. Things get a little more complicated for Lillith when the prudish Katherine comes to search for missing brother, assisted by the private eye Rafe Guttman.The cast of 'Bordello of Blood' is filled with familiar faces. Angie Everhart was an ingenious choice and she clearly has the time of her life portraying the salacious Lillith and she never looked sexier. Too bad Erika Elaniak seems a little lost in her role of the over-religious babe. Of course, it's hard to picture a former playmate and Baywatch-vixen like an opponent of premarital sex&#133;Saturday Night Live clown Dennis Miller is decent and there are good supportive roles for Corey Feldman, Chris Sarandon and Phil Fondacaro (the midget from 'Troll'). Best aspect is the gore of course and Bordello of Blood is an authentic splatter delight. There are torsos cut in half, severed heads, burning corpses and ripped out hearts! As it's standard procedure in the series, the Crypt Keeper who always has a few hilarious one-liners to tell, introduces the film.  "}{"Title":"dumb fun","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  stupid but dumb fun all the way it has cheesy acting a very funny performance by Dennis Miller the gorgeous Angie Everhart shes has a couple way too cheesy one liners though it's always nice to see Chris Saranadon he does his job well if you pay attention Whoopi Goldberg has a cameo in this as a hospital patient if you like gore this movie is filled with we get tons of ripped out hears nasty burning vampires and tons more but this is lacking in plot and story and the ending wasn't that great the direction is shoddy and this could have used more story but we do get to see the crypt keeper he is always fun to watch so all this adds up to if your looking for a smart scary horror flick look bit if your looking for some cheap dumb fun look no further i had fun with this one worth a watch **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Bor-dullo of Flops...  =8P","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dreadful, dreadful mess of a moovie that is as un-scary and un-funny as they come, sort of like Police Academy meets Fright Night.  An obvious Dusk 'Til Dawn wannabe, this gopher turd of a moovie manages to waste the slim acting talents of such grade b actors as Dennis Miller and Chris Sarandon, and non-existent talents of Corey Feldman and Angie Everhart.  The plot is painfully obvious, the effects are cheap and silly, the dialogue is painful, the direction mechanical, and the list goes on and on.  Dennis Miller's character is sooo irritating that I'm tempted to believe that he was really played by Patrick Swayze in make-up.  Over-long, boring, and just plain bad. MooCow says bleeaachh!!  =8P "},{"Title":"The reason Tales from the Crypt died","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While the first film was a solid, self-contained horror flick with a touch of humor and a fair amount of sophistication and imagination, Bordello of Blood falls apart under poor direction and a far too free-spirited nature. While it is a failure as a sequel it manages to entertain only as a brainless time waster. It has bigger scope than Demon Knight, but it's very poorly written.Dennis Miller does his best with the weak material and ad-libs a lot of humor. A little too much, taking the film even further from it's already vague ambitions. But worry not, his humor is still free and easy, unlike his cryptic (no pun intended) football commentaries. Erika Eleniak is marginally engaging and Corey Feldman is underused, though his character is pretty cardboard.. The weakest performances come from Angie Everhart as the ancient vampire Lillith and Chris Sarandon as the outrageously stereotyped southern TV evangelist. It's these performances that keep the film eternally low brow.It's sad that Tales from the Crypt totally died after this movie but the powers behind it went on to found the Dark Castle production company (check out those movies they're actually quite scary and effective). "},{"Title":"An amusingly lowbrow horror comedy romp","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Goody-goody two shoes Katherine Verdoux (blonde cutie Erica Eleniak) hires sleazy private investigator Rafe Gutman (a deliciously smarmy and sarcastic Dennis Miller) to finding her obnoxious missing punk brother Caleb (a perfectly grating Corey Feldman). Rafe traces Caleb to a remote whorehouse on the edge of town that's disguised as a mortuary and populated by luscious lady vampires led by the evil and alluring Madam Lilith (ravishing redhead Angie Everhart having a whale of a wicked time). Director/co-writer Gilbert Adler really pours on the tasty gratuitous female nudity, gleefully over-the-top graphic violence, and often crudely amusing dopey puns. Miller has a ball playing the slimy anti-hero; he keeps things bouncy and funny throughout. Moreover, the solid supporting cast likewise does the trick Chris Sarandon as slick, sanctimonious televangelist Jimmy Current, Aubrey Morris as Lilith's eccentric henchman McCutcheon, Phil Fondacaro as obsessive explorer Vincent Prather, William Sadler as a pompous mummy, and Kiara Hunter as enticing dominatrix bloodsucker Tamara. WARNING Possible *SPOILER* ahead. The definite sidesplitting sick highlight occurs when Lilith's vampire harem gets slaughtered while Ballroom Blitz blares away on the soundtrack. Good, trashy tongue-in-cheek fun. "},{"Title":"I'm Going to Advance Some Weird Duchovnian Rift","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bob Gale and Robert Zemeckis no less scripted this funny,ludicrous story about a mortuary by day serving as a bordello by night for vampires to feed on unsuspecting customers. Thrown into the mix are a TV evangelist thinking he is doing the Lord's work in aiding these vampires, a super sexy vampire that cannot be killed in any regular way and rips the hearts out of those she kills, Dennis Miller ad-libbing his way through much of the film, and a bevy of some fabulous, eye-popping women, bare-chested and brazen. Bordello of Blood is a fun film meant to be humorous, grisly, and rated R for nudity and violence. It strives to be all of these things, and at least in my opinion, succeeds in each area. Humour is definitely a major focus when Dennis Miller is your leading man. He is not a great actor(or a good one even) but his propensity to come up with witty, well-placed lines had me laughing throughout. Sure, the story is not to be taken seriously, and Miller's presence confirms that. He makes all kinds of allusions to things past and present(love the Hope and Crosby line) and has a good screen presence even if not a believable one. The rest of the cast plays in the same vein with Corey Feldman playing it up, Chris Sarandon doing a great job as the evangelist, and a much over-looked Aubrey Morris matching wits with Miller. Phil Fondacaro also is in the film and stars in the opening scene somewhere in South America to find the dead body of this female vampire juggernaut. The Cryptkeeper is here too with some pretty inventive puns(I was laughing!). Director Gilbert Adler looks like he spares little expense the sets are lush, the blood is plentiful and credible, and the girls are...breathtaking - literally and figuratively. The two female leads, Erika Eleniak of BayWatch fame and red-headed Angie Everhart, set the standard. Both are competent actresses as well. Don't get me wrong, Bordello of Blood is not a great horror film but is a funny, inventive horror/comedy. It does have some frightening moments but never lets the comedy trail off too far away. "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Crypt Keeper returns in this disappointing full length feature. This tale is about a whore house that is run by a sexy group of vampires who either kill their customers or turn them into vampires. While the effects are still good and the Everhart as the lead vamp is sexy, this lacks an edge. The humor comes off flat and the scares are virtually none. An over the top finale just doesn't cut it.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Nudity, Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Oh my God, it's a necrophiliac's wet dream!","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With Dennis Miller, you can expect that this will not be the usual Vampire movie. He makes constant references to movies, TV stars, and other personalities throughout. It is hard to believe that he didn't get writing credit as i imagine many of the lines were his. That's just a guess.Dennis certainly has his eyes on Erika Eleniak (Under Siege) throughout, as do we. She can't hide behind that uptight Christian persona, and she gets to come out of her shell and deliver what all of us that despise Deniss Miller wanted to see.It also features Angie Everhart (First to Die) as the head vampire. The first fire-top on Glamour magazine, Angie didn't give us the display she had in Jade, but she was hot hot hot throughout. Unfortunately, she was really hot towards the end.Lots of gore and sexual innuendo. Despite his best efforts, Miller did not completely ruin the film. "},{"Title":"Ah, so that's where Corey Feldman went","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was starting to wonder. Well, I saw this movie on Comedy Central. And I was a little disturbed with the movie. It's kind of stupid. But I do love Tales from the Crypt, so, I figured I'd go out and rent it. Without censorship. It's ok. Not my cup of tea. But I did get a couple laughs.5/10 "},{"Title":"Wear your sunscreen, folks!","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mostly just an excuse to be silly, Bordello of Blood portrays a whorehouse run by vampires looking for fresh blood. Since this features the Crypt Keeper (John Kassir), you know that it's going to be campy. I guess that the only problem is the presence of the very undesirable Dennis Miller, although even he does an OK job here. But the real meat (pun intended) is in Angie Everhart's role as sexy vampire Lillith; she makes anyone admire those bloodsuckers.Overall, maybe this movie is just cheap entertainment, but it ensures a good time. You just might want to sink your teeth into this. Also starring Erika Eleniak, Chris Sarandon, Corey Feldman, and even a bit part by Whoopi Goldberg. "},{"Title":"Now I don't want to get off on a crypt here...","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  But I think this film has some good things in it despite some cheesy effects and a not exactly great plot. For instance, Dennis Miller.  He brings the film through it's lulls with his wicked sense of humor and odd sense of morale.  He works very well in this vampire film that is better than the last Crypt movie.  One of the best horror films of 96. "}{"Title":"At Least It Didn`t Take Itself Seriously","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I`ve never seen an edition from TALES FROM THE CRYPT so I can only judge BORDELLO OF BLOOD by its own merits and I`m afraid I don`t have much opinion one way or the other . It`s a camp horror movie featuring a brothel that`s a front for vampires and instantly reminded me of FROM DUSK TILL DAWN but is slightly more enjoyable . It doesn`t take itself too seriously which works in its favour other wise I`d be pointing out plot holes like how come the cops haven`t noticed that many of the town`s male inhabitants have been going missing . I could have done without the sexual innuendo and wise cracks though  I think you`d better step outside  No thanks I don`t have time for a < Sexual act > Not sure if I`d be watching the TV series on a regular basis after watching this feature length spin off   "}]