[{"Title":"Fraser and MacLaine make 'Mrs. Winterbourne' watchable.","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Mrs. Winterbourne' is a highly improbable take on the Cinderella rags to riches story about 18 year-old Connie Doyle (Ricki Lake), who finds herself enceinte, unmarried, and homeless. Her criminal rat of a boyfriend, Steve DeCunzo (Loren Dean), wants nothing to do with her or the baby. But fate has a better future in store for Connie, and the heavily pregnant girl finds herself, almost miraculously, on a train bound for Boston from New York. There she shares a compartment with a young married couple, Hugh and Patricia Winterbourne (Susan Haskell and Brendan Fraser), who are also expecting a little bundle of joy. But one little innocent action, followed by one horrifying accident, lands Connie in the hospital, mistaken for Patricia Winterbourne. She and her baby, who survived, are both whisked off to the massive Winterbourne estate in Boston. Connie decides to carry on the charade (it's almost ironic that her her name is Connie, since she's conning everyone) even after coming face to face with her coddling mother-in-law (Shirley MacLaine) and Hugh's twin brother, the cold and unfriendly Bill Winterbourne (also Brendan Fraser).For a fluff film like this, the cast is surprisingly good. Loren Dean is convincing enough and makes you want to jump into your TV and strangle the jerk. The Winterbourne butler, Paco (Miguel Sandoval), is a delight to watch, especially when he's drunk. But Fraser and MacLaine really make the film worthwhile to see. Why either talented actor would want to participate in a film like this is a mystery to me, but maybe it's for the best. Fraser especially plays twins very well, and his transition from part antagonist to full protagonist is believable. But I have a difficult time understanding why Ricki Lake was cast as Connie. She has a tendency to overact in many scenes, she doesn't make a convincing 18 year-old at all (she was 28 when cast), and her transition from sharp-tongued teenager to polite young socialite bride-to-be is too fast and unbelievable.Overall, 'Mrs. Winterbourne' is a good film for a boring Friday night. This is definitely a chick flick. It's heartwarming and the cast is a joy to watch. Just don't expect anymore than that. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This may only be good if you're expecting it to be very terrible. Iwas. The beginning wasn't promising. But as soon as Ricki Lakegets on the train, this movie starts to get watchable, and as soonas she moves in with the Winterbournes, it starts to get honestlyfunny.Brendan Fraser is really a great actor, isn't he? He's too goodlooking to be as talented as he is. Some fairly hackneyed scenesin this film are made compelling and realistic because Fraser's sogood. But there are lots of genuine laugh out loud moments in thissweet, gentle comedy. If the end is too long, too complicated andtoo stupid, by that time you'll like it too much to care. "},{"Title":"Totally Underrated","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great film.  Just because Ricki Lake stars in this movie doesn't automatically make it bad.  It's a sweet story about a girl who had a rough life and accidentally finds herself with a ton of possibilities just unfortunately, as someone else.  Ricki Lakes character has a lot of integrity and is truly a good mom along with all the chaos.  Brendan Fraser is very lovable and  Shirley Mclain was fabulous as only she could be. This is a definite rental if you haven't seen it and are looking for a sweet romantic comedy.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"pleasant romance - feelgood movie","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So Ricky Lake is not the world's greatest actress, but she does well enough. The romance is reasonably believable. The story is friendly. And you get to watch Brendan Fraser for a long while - who is actually even more dishy as Hugh than as Bill, so do pay attention during the act in the train.I watched it twice on television. I could easily bear watching it a third time. Believe me- that's high praise.  "},{"Title":"Passable performances; horrible writing.","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've always wanted to see this movie but I have to admit it was disappointing. It's just so completely implausible and without logic that it's difficult to enjoy. Yeah, I know that fluffy romantic comedies aren't supposed to be realistic, but this one just stretches credulity too much. The worst deficiency is Brendan Frasier's chilly WASP suddenly and inexplicably melting into a nice guy. He not only changes his opinion about Ricki Lake but seems to completely change personality as well. One moment he's rudely questioning her every move and investigating her and virtually the next he's romancing her, tangoing her around the room and kissing her, and then proposing marriage! He goes from aloof to gooey in 6 seconds flat. It's just too much to swallow. What was it exactly that caused him to fall in love - her charming use of the words tits and ass at the dinner table? The haircut? (Actually, I liked her hair better long and curly). Don't get me wrong, I love Ricki Lake, and I don't think she was bad here, she just wasn't given anything to do, and we were never given any reason why Frasier should experience such a dramatic sea-change. If perhaps they'd shown that a few months had passed, or something to explain the abrupt turnaround. Frankly, everyone in this movie goes around like their brains are made of mush. I suppose Maclaine's alcoholic character has an excuse, but really, the extremely simplistic and downright stereotypical characterizations of everyone involved (rich people, poor people, gay latino butlers) were insulting.   Maclaine, Frasier and Sandoval are excellent comedic actors, and do the best with what they can here, but the characters are not even close to real people. The only real thing I got out of it was drooling over Brendan Frasier, and frankly there are many other superior movies that can be used for that purpose.  "},{"Title":"Sweet, but full of plot holes","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mrs. Winterbourne is perhaps the epitome of romantic comedies, in the requirement that you suspend disbelief. It almost commands that you not think about the plot too much, because if you do, the entire movie falls apart.The plot is simple. Connie Doyle is thrown out by her boyfriend when she becomes pregnant, and she ends up on a train with the Winterbournes, a wealthy young couple on their way to Boston. The train derails, and both Winterbournes are killed. However, as Connie was trying on Mrs. Winterbourne's ring at the time of the accident, she is mistaken for her, and her baby for the Winterbourne grandchild. What follows is what always happens in romantic comedies, Connie is taken in by the Winterbourne family and falls in love with the dead Winterbourne's twin brother, who is initially suspicious of her, but then grows to love her. Complications arise, but everything works out in the end.Shirley MacLaine is quite winning at Grace Winterbourne, and Miguel Sandoval steals most of his scenes. The problem is that neither Ricki Lake or Brendan Fraser have much chemistry with each other, and Ricki Lake seems miscast in general. Of course, there are also massive plot holes here, and even in the end, no one really seems to care that the real Mrs. Winterbourne and the real Winterbourne grandchild are off buried somewhere under someone else's name. This is not a bad movie, it's perfectly pleasant, but you really are required to not think about the plot at all to really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Bored on a winter's day or evening? Go find this film, Mrs. Winterbourne!","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Connie (Ricki Lake) lost her mother at twelve in Hoboken, New Jersey. Because she did not get along with her father, Connie left NJ at 18 and went to NYC. Unfortunately, she immediately hooked up with a low-life named Steve and became pregnant. Steve was less than thrilled with the news and threw Connie out of the house. Although she works as a waitress for awhile, when her delivery date draws near, she finds herself broke and homeless. The next day , Connie boards a train she thinks is the subway but which turns out to be a railway to Boston. There, she is befriended by handsome, rich Hugh and his new and very pregnant wife Patricia. The train derails. Hugh and Patricia are killed. But, by a twist of fate, Connie is mistaken for Patricia and finds herself and her new baby in a private hospital, as befitting the wife of a member of the rich Winterbourne family. She meets her new mother-in-law (Shirley MacLaine) and her husband's twin brother, Bill (Brendan Fraser) and goes home to a posh, Boston mansion, complete with servants. Just how long will she be able to fool everyone into thinking she really is a part of the family? This is a nice little film for the proverbial romcom fan. MacLaine is wonderful as the matriarch of the wealthy family and Fraser is his usual handsome, quirky, affable self. Lake seems a bit miscast as the girl with a big secret but fulfills her role adequately. The sets, costumes, and production values are very high. Do you love improbable plots and unexpected, humorous romance? Make a date to see Mrs. W. and you will be in your element, absolutely. "},{"Title":"Cliche plot, but I enjoyed it","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this for the first time after I bought it at my video store. I'm a fan of Brendan Fraser and usually enjoy his films. Shirley McLaine and Fraser shine in this movie. I loved both their characters and of course Paco, he was just too funny. I think all the characters fit the actors except Ricki Lake. I feel they could have cast, not necessarily a better actress, but just one who fit into this role more properly. I just can't seem to take Lake as a serious actress. Plus I'm used to her John Waters' film roles. She portrays wacky weirdo characters alot better than a single, pregnant, pennyless outsider. This, in my opinion, is a great feel good flick, perfect for those who crave silly romance comedies. I know my mother couldn't stop talking about it and loves the movie, as do I. All in all... the storyline was cliche - but I tend to like simple movies. Lake's acting could have been better - she did alright considering the films she's appeared in in the past. Simply put, this is a must see for any fans of Fraser or McLaine, who deliver wonderful performances. I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Why it's a five...","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Because Brendan Fraser and Shirley Maclaine make it surprisingly bearable. Ricki Lake, God bless her, was, in a word, miscast; without the strength of Fraser and Maclaine, this movie is a two, at best a three. She's brings no life to the role, no reality. At best, she was an over-actor. At worst... well, she was a bad over-actor. A really, really bad over-actor. Still, for a movie that had so much potential (if not for the sometimes unbelievable -yet entertaining- storyline, then definitely for the two aforementioned lead actors) that was lost beneath the looming shadow that is Lake, I'd watch it again. If it were on cable TV... and if nothing else is on. "},{"Title":"Fraser saves a cliche-ridden movie and makes it hilarious","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, if you want to enjoy this one, be prepared to suspend  disbelief. The plot hinges on a number of incredibly unlikely  coincidences, in the manner of '30's screwball comedies. It  doesn't always work, but parts of it are so hysterically funny  I'd definitely recommend seeing it. The script is uneven, with  the first 20 minutes slow and somewhat depressing. But with the introduction of Fraser and MacLaine it perks up a whole lot. The  central problem of this movie is that Ricki Lake simply isn't a  strong enough actress to carry a lead role. Her Connie comes  across as merely dumb, rather than vulnerable, and she's just  not all that funny. To see how Connie should have been played,  watch Sandra Bullock in While You Were Sleeping, playing a  very similar role infinitely better. MacLaine is terrific as the  iron-willed, acid-tongued Winterbourne matriarch, but Fraser  steals the show! He has  a deadpan delivery that enhances the  good lines he's given, but even when he's silent, he's funny. He  has terrifically versatile facial expressions that can push a  scene from amusing to hilarious. Also, Miguel Sandoval is great  as the bossy, flamboyant butler. There is some great side-business between MacLaine, Fraser and Sandoval as the two  men conspire to try and keep her healthy, and she sneaks around  smoking and drinking. It's fluffy stuff, but these 3 experienced  comic performers milk it for everything it's worth. That could  pretty much sum up the whole movie light on plot, light on  plausibility, but very very funny. With a different actress  exploiting Connie's comic potential this one could have been a  gem. As it is, it's flawed but definitely worth seeing. The  tango scene alone is worth the price of the video. "}{"Title":"Decent, amusing comedy that doesn't quite make it...","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought that this movie was relatively well done, but got lost in trying to decide what kind of movie it wanted to be. First off, I didn't buy Connie as an 18 year old. She could have been just as naive at the age of 25 and then would have looked it as well (she was around 26/7 when it was filmed most likely). At first it's something of a fish-out-of-water story that seems like it's trying to be a semi-grittier version of While You Were Sleeping, then about midway through the movie she dances with Hugh's brother and suddenly he loves her. It's like the teen movie cliché of losing the glasses and ponytail. When Connie's dealing with her ex, the movie tries to be noir-ish, but the previously set mood basically destroys any sort of suspense that could have come from this. Being a romantic comedy, it's obvious from the beginning that there will be a happy ending, and Ricki Lake is very charming (though most definitely not looking 18) as Connie, but overall I felt the film could have been better. "},{"Title":"Suspend reality but watch it for Fraser","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mrs. Winterbourne is the kind of movie I almost hate myself for liking. As a person who likes a little reality in her movies, I get fidgety when a movie pretty much tosses reality out the window.  But if Brendan Fraser is involved, I'm willing to take that plunge.Ricki Lake is the heroine as the pregnant Connie Doyle, who is fleeing her typically no-good dirtbag boyfriend Steve. During her escape, she meets a couple that seem nice enough. Alas, the train crashes and Connie is mistaken for the wife in the duo after Connie gives birth in all the confusion. She realizes she's considered the wife of Huey, a young man who was very wealthy but on the outs with his family.With baby in tow, Connie arrives at the Winterbourne estate and meets Mrs. Winterbourne (McLaine) and her dead husband's brother Bill (Fraser), who smells a rat from the beginning. Mrs. W is so glad to have a grandbaby she'll believe anything. The rest of the movie is rather predictable with the usual boy falls for girl/girl tries to do noble thing and leave with baby/girl comes back/boy asks girl to marry him/peril ensues/everyone confesses/couple marries.However, there are plenty of entertaining moments to enjoy. The aforementioned tango scene is worth renting it alone. Brendan Fraser personifies a REAL MAN! I wish there were more actors like him who can portray masculinity with a sense of humor and without a submachine gun. I'll take Mr. F over Brad Pitt any day. The scene where Connie's trying to leave and he makes the list is indeed charming. Well written and well acted. Ms. Lake tends to stick within a small range of emotions (shock, confusion, joy, fear) but seems to hold her own. It's good to see her in something other than a John Waters film.This is a great date video. Lightweight fluff but very palatable!  "},{"Title":"Shirley MacLaine Carries the Film.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mrs. Winterbourne (1996) Dir Richard Benjamin / Cast Ricki Lake, Shirley MacLaine, Brendan Fraser, Loren Dean, Jane Krakowski Intriguing romantic comedy that has its charm before surrendering to stupid situations that derail any richness it had. Ricki Lake moves to New York and meets a guy on her birthday but he throws her out of her apartment upon pregnancy. She encounters a couple on the subway who are expecting their first child. When she is allowed to try on their wedding band tragedy strikes. Lake awakens to learn that her baby was born and she is mistaken for someone else. Intriguing introduction becomes predictable with a nonsensical ending. Directed by Richard Benjamin who previously made Milk Money and Mermaids. First issue with this film is its weak performance by Lake. Another actress might have saved this mediocre delivery. Shirley MacLaine is a compelling actress but as Mrs. Winterbourne she is just a presence playing a type who will save the day. The best performance goes to Brendan Fraser as twins. He will accept Lake when it is learned that his brother died but their relationship is no surprise. Loren Dean as Lake's ex is the typical scheming guy whom wants back in her life for the wrong reasons. Theme of family unity falls into foolish situations that becomes more a sideshow fiasco than a decent romance. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Simple entertainment","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, it isn't a masterpiece, OK the story is implausible but if you love old fashioned, simple entertaining movies you will love this. I'm not over fussed with Ricki Lake but having Brendon Frazier, Shirley McClaine and wonderful support actors and actresses more than makes up for what is lacking in Ms Lakes performance. Don't expect to be challenged by this beautiful shot movie. Instead sit back and enjoy and smile. The locations, the dated but beautiful clothing adds to the atmosphere. You will also love to hate the nasty piece of work that threatens Connie's new life. You will smile when Grace dances and sings to her new grandson. You will sigh as Bill tangos around the kitchen with Connie with the encouragement of a drunk Paco. It's lovely. "},{"Title":"Add me to the I liked it camp","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I believe that those who are most vocally panning Mrs. Winterbourne are doing so because they simply don't like the genre of light-hearted romantic comedy. As a comedy, not a drama, and especially as a mistaken identity plot bordering on farce, it isn't *supposed* to resemble a true-to-life documentary, OK? I don't understand those who say Ricki Lake shouldn't have been cast in the female lead role. Why? Because she isn't some A-list skeletal blonde? She played Connie/Patricia admirably, and says that this is the role that made her the proudest to play. It was the first role, she said, where her weight didn't factor into the casting. Should she be sorry she's too average looking for some people's Hottiewood tastes? I don't think so. Who says ordinary women don't deserve love and romance too?We'll get the obvious out of the way first. Of COURSE Shirley MacLaine shines as Grace Winterbourne. That lady could play a seashell and be absolutely spellbinding. Of COURSE Brendan Fraser has women swooning over his Hugh/Bill Winterbourne. That's what Brendan Fraser does. It's the smaller roles that make the movie wonderful Loren Dean is altogether tops as Steven DeCunzo, the abusive womanizing lowlife who fathers Connie's baby and then abandons her to the streets, ultimately getting what he richly deserves. Convincing? Hey, I wanted to smack him myself. Nesbitt Blaisdell stole the scene as the homeless man who befriends a very pregnant Connie. They pray at you, he warns her about a particular shelter, but the food's good. Miguel Sandoval is truly enjoyable as Paco, the butler. The only small problem here is that Paco's homosexuality is a trait I gathered only from script, not from character development. In other words, I just never would have guessed Paco was gay without it being said outright. For all I know Sandoval himself could be homosexual (I have no idea) and my saying that he doesn't believably portray one could be hilarious in its irony, but it just doesn't seem that way to me. What do I want, a stereotype? Probably. Farces are usually full of them. Farce is all about exaggeration, and exaggeration relies heavily on stereotype.My favorite scene in the movie has got to be the aftermath of the Sunny Side of the Street fiasco. Streetwise teenager tells catty blonde débutantes to f--- off, leaving them flabbergasted with shock. That's funny enough, but then smooth, cultured, filthy rich family matriarch comes along behind her with, You heard her. F--- off, which was one hundred percent hysterical.There's the scene at the train station where Paco delivers the line, You are as much a Winterbourne as I am, putting a lump in my throat.I do have trouble with the wedding scene at the end. Connie stops the proceedings (and nearly stops the priest's pulse as well) by unexpectedly saying no. She, Patricia Winterbourne, does *not* take Bill Winterbourne to be her husband. I, Constance Helen Doyle, do all that. And everything's back on again. My problem is that the marriage license would have read Patricia Winterbourne. They wouldn't have had time to correct it. Which, of course, would invalidate the ceremony, making Grandma Grace Winterbourne's closing line to baby Hughie--They're married--a false statement. Oh, no they're not. Also, I am forced to agree that Ricki Lake does NOT look like a character who just turned 18 years old. But hey, if I'm going to be consistent and say that farce isn't supposed to be completely believable, then we can suspend reality for those things too.To summarize, so what if Mrs. Winterbourne is a chick flick? Chicks are half the world's population, guys. Get used to it. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Winterbourne is A Winner ***1/2","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As she gets older, veteran actress Shirley Mac Laine just gets better and better.In this wonderful 1996 film, Miss MacLaine portrays the mother of a son and daughter who are tragically killed in a train wreck. Since she never met her daughter-in-law, this will provide for the wonderful plot.Ricki Lake is a young girl down on her luck. Finding herself pregnant from an abusive hoodlum-like boyfriend, the latter kicks her out when he discovers her condition. It is her good fortune to meet up with MacLaine's son and new daughter-in-law. She is in the train when it crashes and having just put on the dead woman's wedding ring, she is easily mistaken for MacLaine's new daughter-in-law.When she gives birth to the baby, MacLaine is a grandmother! Lake soon finds her dead husband's brother (Brendon Fraser) as her love interest. Naturally, seeing Lake in the newspaper with her wealthy family brings back the boyfriend to do some blackmailing. The fun really starts when the boyfriend is murdered and some more surprises are revealed.The cast is just perfect and the storyline is done well. "},{"Title":"Casting Problems","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One thing I have come to realise about any film is the importance of casting. Mrs Winterbourne had great potential and could have been up there with films such as While You Were Sleeping (excellent cast). Shirley MacLaine does her best and is the star of the film but Brendan Fraser, who despite being handsome and watchable, over acts. Poor Ricki Lake is out of her depth here and brings the movie down to an average film. As well as the casting problems the story is a bit like a bad hair cut. There seems to be chunks missing. The ugly duckling turns into a swan with a haircut and outfit - and this turns the heart of a man? Wow look out, I am in for a new do and outfit too! I really wanted to like this film - shame. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh WOW, I just saw this movie on Lifetime and I thought it was the best movie I have seen in a long time.  Brendan Frasier is absolutely gorgeous.  I would only dream of having a family like that.  It was great "},{"Title":"BRENDAN'S SLEEPER FILM","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OH my god.I just watched this.  The tango scene is worth BUYING this movie  for.  I am surprised I do not see more about this movie on many of the Brendan websites.  He is extremely hot in this.All the other actors are really good in it as well.But Brendan?   *sigh* "},{"Title":"Another Modern Fairy Tale","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mrs Winterbourne is another in a line of modern Cinderella, a rags-to-riches story. It serves as a reminder that every so often we still hanker after Romance with a capital R. It's fun and doesn't have pretensions of taking itself seriously. It's a lovely idea that a stiff young man would fall in love with a woman he initially disdains  but  Ricki Lake as the girl in question doesn't always pull it off. Shirley McLaine is, as always, wonderful to watch and just as delightful is Brendan Fraser.  "}{"Title":"Realistically an 8","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most would either flip for Brendan Frasers good looks and quirky acting or his increasing acting ability. But than not look at the plot and other actors. Lake does a so-so acting job (but can you blame her... she's a talk show host). McLain does (as always) a superb job with her small side role. But the main focus to keep the ball moving in this film is Fraser. Can you blame anyone? This is a romantic comedy, and who watches those? WOMEN! So of course he's going to be keeping it rolling in this film. Now don't get me wrong the movie rolls fine with the plot and quirky twists but it was casted with Fraser on intent. I still give it an 8 despite it's deficances. "},{"Title":"Ricki Lake sadly, not the next Sandra Bullock...","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Excruciating, impossible comedy, an adaptation of Cornell Woolrich's story I Married a Dead Man, concerns homeless, pregnant, and incredibly naive young woman (Ricki Lake, three years after debuting as a TV chat-show hostess) coming in contact with a wealthy Bostonian family who believe she's a relative of theirs. The wonderful cast includes Brendan Fraser, Shirley MacLaine, and an unbilled Paula Prentiss, but not even their lively efforts can make this script easy to swallow. Story previously filmed in 1950 (as a melodrama starring Barbara Stanwyck) and again in 1983; this version seems to have a case of While You Were Sleeping-itis, but Lake, while amiable, doesn't have the soft charm or the innate presence to carry a big movie like this. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Surprising Delightful","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I almost embarassed to say it, but I ended up falling in love with this film.  I'm not one for romantic comedies or whatever this falls under, and I usually require more reality in the setup of a film to buy it, but there is just something so sweet about this film.  And Brendan Fraser, god, I have never been able to stand that guy, and he was just wonderful.  So, so wonderful.  Very reminiscent of a leading man from another time when men were men and women were, well, women.  Ricki Lake fares relatively well, especially considering she has to go up against Shirley MacLaine (no small task) and Frasier.  My favorite though was the Winterbourne's driver, Paco. A wonderfully colorful role that the actor fitted in the best way possible.Not the tightest story you'll ever find, nor the most credible, but the movie has heart and old fashioned romance.  Watch out for it, you might be finding flaws all over the beginning, but if you're not careful, it'll creep up on you and tickle your heart.  "},{"Title":"I'm still smiling","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just finished watching this movie and I enjoyed it very much. The plot is implausible but there are some excellent performances and memorable scenes.Brendan Fraser is gorgeous (as always) and there were many entertaining moments where he shines in his dual roles as identical twin brothers. Shirley MacLaine is excellent as an incorrigible matriarch and Miguel Sandoval hilarious as the devoted butler.Ricki Lake plays Connie, the title character, who is mistakenly identified as Mrs. Winterbourne after an accident. Being a homeless, unwed mother she allows herself to be taken in by the Winterbourne family but is a fish out of water and in constant fear of being unmasked. The family have their own fears and pains but Connie and the Winterbourne's manage to be positive influences on each other allowing healing, growth and romance.Of course I've seen it all before but this movie is definitely worth a look if feel good comedy romances are your thing. "},{"Title":"In a word?  Terrible","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember when this movie first came out, I was very anxious to go and see it.  Unfortunately, neither my boyfriend or any of my friends showed any interest.  Well, I finally caught it the other day on HBO Signature and it was so awful, I felt like calling my friends and thanking them for saving me the price of a movie ticket!Shirley MacLaine was wonderful, but when isn't she?  But even she didn't have enough screen time to save this dog.  In my opinion, the miscast person here was Ricki Lake, I mean let's face it, she was way too old to play the young and innocent TEENAGE girl from NJ.  When she met the future father of her baby and told him that she was only 18, I laughed out loud!  Plus, there wasn't a drop of chemistry between them or between her and Brendan Fraser.I don't think the script was very well-written either, the characters weren't fleshed-out enough and there were big gaping holes in the story. All in all I give this flick a D.  "},{"Title":"Heartwarming fun","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was not what I expected at all. One hears Ricki Lake's name and automatically assumes that somewhere her pregnant character will burst into song and tease her hair to the heights, but I actually surprisingly enjoyed her in this movie. Yes, she was a little bit of a ham and her age didn't fit the character, but she did a good job playing the little downtrodden city girl who, through a battle with mistaken identity, finds the family she wished she'd always had.As for issues with her attitude and her changes into a society girl, did anyone ever think that maybe she was not that much of a wild child before, and that her acclimation into society was easier than she would have expected? Come on, who on this site doesn't speak a little differently in front of their parents versus their friends? I know I have to give myself a mental warning to try to keep my tongue from slipping when I visit my mom...seriously, everybody does this to some degree, you just don't think about it. I mean, imagine going to church...do you curse in front of your pastor or priest? No. You'd never dream of it. With your friends after a few margaritas? Yes, often something naughty would come out.With that said, Shirley MacLaine and Brendan Fraser are charming, warm and human. She is absolutely the perfect high society misfit leader of a crazy but accepted clan. She's funny, sweet and caring, and smarter than her son or Connie give her credit for. I love, love, love her in this role! Brendan's Hugh/Bill is a marvelous character. The brief moments we see Hugh are sweet, and we unknowingly get a contrast between the two men when we first see the movie. Hugh's free spirit is an instant draw, where Bill's all business attitude at the start takes getting used to.Others on this site have said that it is unconvincing for Bill to have gone from a bit of a cold fish to the warm, funny, in-love guy that he becomes, but I can see the possibilities. If you can put yourself into the character's shoes, here is a man who's just lost his twin brother and been thrown in with the man's wife. He feels some attraction to this pretty, goofy young woman, but this is his DEAD BROTHER'S WIFE! Society would frown upon it...wouldn't't't it? Besides, he's the more sensible twin. He hasn't found that woman who brings out the softer side, so why change? Well...because something about this girl is so endearing, so charming, that he finds himself warming up. It's out of his hands...he can't help it. He's crazy about her. And when he's ready to rat her out to Grace, but Connie tells Grace not to put her in the will, he realizes she really ISN'T there for the money, and that just makes her more lovable. How could he tell Grace and potentially cause another attack? I won't say anymore about what goes on in the movie, as I've done enough damage, but my mom introduced me to this sweet and funny movie, and I was charmed and pleased with the whole film. The ending was satisfying (and I know how the paperwork *flub* is fixable, but if I explain, I'll be saying too much!) and I came away happy, so it's definitely worth giving a shot! Rent it, watch it, don't expect too much, and you'll definitely be satisfied! "},{"Title":"A Terrible Adaption","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *Contains spoilers*I watched this movie in the middle of a Sunday, having never heard of it and no prior expectations what so ever, I was pleasantly surprised. The concepts which this movie presented were so original and unpredictable, I got the impression that this was a classic and well celebrated American story. It was however the ideas in the story which had me captivated, that and the very attractive Brendan Fraser. It's hard to come by movies which surprise you. Having seen that it was based on the book I Married a Dead man by Cornell Woolrich, I managed to find it in the library, and I read it. Twice.It is one of my favourite books, haunting, subtle, brilliantly crafted. Nothing like the movie. I'm sorry to say that Mrs. Winterbourne is an atrocious adaption of the book, it butchers all the complex and beautiful themes and even changes the ending. I Married a Dead man does not have a happy ending as the movie does, Bill and Patrice are left suspecting one another of the murder and cannot live in happiness.Even when you have not read the book, the movie does not even really work as a stand alone romantic comedy. After having a complete character change which seemed to happen over night, Bill suddenly falls in love with Connie and marries her in what appears to be a few weeks after his brothers death. There is nothing to indicate the passage of time and it left me very confused as a viewer that they would so quickly move on. The book I recommend - it is brilliant. The movie I do not, thank goodness Cornell Woolrich is not alive to see it, it would make him want to cut off his other leg. (He had to have one of his legs removed due to gangrene) "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I was younger I used to watch this movie every time it was on TV. And that was almost every week. I finally just went out to buy it because I had an urge to watch it again. I had forgotten how much I loved this movie. It has just the right amount of romance in it without being in your face with love scenes. There's a slight bit of mystery too. But overall I would say it's a fun romantic comedy.This movie is about a woman named Connie who is pregnant and penniless. She gets on a train one day and ends up meeting a man named Hugh and his pregnant wife, Patricia. The two women get along great and exchange stories about themselves. Connie ends up trying on Patricia's wedding ring that's engraved Hugh and Patricia, but while she has the ring on there is a really bad train wreck. After the wreck, Connie wakes up in the Hospital and everyone mistakes her as Patricia Winterbourne. The Winterbourne family takes her in and treats her as one of them. Does Connie feel bad and confess or does she pretend to be Patricia since she has nothing to go back to? I'll let you watch the movie to find out the rest. "},{"Title":"A movie not worth mentioning, if Shirley MacLaine were not acting in it.","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Connie Doyle (played by Ricki Lake) is abandoned on the streets by her former lover as she tells him that she is pregnant and does not want an abortion. Months later, in an advanced stage of her pregnancy and on the way to a shelter for the homeless, she enters the wrong train and gets involved into a chain of coincidences that finally leads to the end that, when the train crashes in an accident, she is mistaken for Mrs. Patricia Winterbourne, another pregnant woman, who loses her life under the shattered heap of steel. Because Hugh Winterbourne had married Patricia only a short time ago in distant Europe, never sent a photograph and is himself among the death victims, the Winterbourne family accepts the mistaken identity, at least at the beginning. Thus, when Connie wakes up at the hospital, she finds herself in a different world, as the member of a wealthy family and with a little son who is enthusiastically welcomed by his supposed grandmother.The main part of the plot that follows this exposition is what should be romantic comedy, from the time on when Connie meets Hugh Winterbourne's brother Bill. However the movie is neither able to create any romantic atmosphere nor does it come up with a single scene that I could find really comic. Of course there are situations that are quite absurd, but they did not make me laugh or even smile, because they were too directly and sometimes crudely contrived.All in all, the movie is not very original. It makes use of a large number of plot elements that we have seen fitting together much better in hundreds of comedies before. And what is absolutely fatal for a romantic comedy is that the central relationship does not work. We see two people come together because it is written in the script, not because they are drawn together by affection.The movie is obviously intended as a kind of Cinderella story for female movie viewers. At least this explains why Bill's part is played by a good-looking Brendan Fraser, while for Connie's part an actress with a more average look and figure was chosen. But it is hard for me to believe that the female perspective would turn this movie into anything worth mentioning, if it were not simply because Brendan Fraser appears on the screen. The only genuine reason for watching the movie could be the fact that Shirley MacLaine plays Grace Winterbourne, Connie's supposed mother in law. She is great as ever and therefore appears misplaced in a weak movie among actors who deliver only second-rate performances. "},{"Title":"For all it's faults, still a heck of a Charming Movie!","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that grieves you with it's missed possibilities. Unfortunately the contemporary time line, didn't work too well for this movie. In a word, Mrs. Winterbourne was just too innocent for modern times. What a knock out this movie could have been if the screen writers would have kept to Woolrich's original 1930's epic, instead of pulling the viewer back and forth between heart warming nostalgia and blaring modernism.Ricki Lake's performance was admirable, though I did feel she was miscast. Still, it was extremely refreshing to see a female main character who was not a beautiful, ugly duckling. Fraser, as always was wonderful, Shirley MacLaine was priceless, but it was Miguel Sandoval (as the quirky Cuban Butler) who almost stole the show.All in all, I did like this movie. I thought that the scenes and settings were especially beautiful, the humor was sweet, and the songs in this movie were fantastic! Mrs. Winterbourne was a little too light in the romance department and there were some leaps in logic, but overall I give it 7/10. This would be a great movie to wile away an afternoon. And though no one would ever accuse this movie of being intellectual or at times rational, Mrs. Winterbourne is a must see for all die hard romantics...for it will leave you with a smile. "}{"Title":"Better than I Remember","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So.... two hours before bed, I'm bored.... want to watch something fluffy and pointless, something i won't get too invested in before sleep... something i won't really care if i fall asleep during it... but something i haven't seen in a while.Always been a big fan of Frazer, and decided to watch this for a strange reason -- Frazer is ambidextrous and usually writes with his left hand. But I had this memory of him sitting at a desk writing with his right, and I couldn't remember what the movie is. So I'm trying to figure out what it was.... and then remembered him saying one of the lines of the movie. So I hopped on to IMDb and just as I was typing his name I remembered the movie. Looked for it online for a little while, finally found it via good ol' YouTube.I had expected, going in, a really wretched horrible movie; but had hoped to be at least somewhat entertained by Frazer. The man is really a fantastic actor; He always amuses me. So I thought, what the heck -- I watched The Air I Breathe last night, that was heavy. Let's have a Frazer fluffy movie (that's not Blast from the Past or the Mummy because i've seen them so many times) and had hoped to be, at least, mildly entertained.This is not a brilliant movie. But Frazer and MacLaine are absolutely wonderful and make the movie watchable.I just remember this movie coming out around the same time as While You Were Sleeping. Same basic premise -- following a confusion over identity, a lonely girl lies to family about who she really is because the family takes her in and she feels accepted for the first time in her life....This one has a baby in it.So, not original. Let's make that clear. Not believable. Not even that good a movie. However, Frazer and MacLaine are lovely and the movie has its moments -- like when Rikki Lake comes in the room asking MacLaine (who is smoking) who had been smoking in the room and MacLaine half-swallows the lit cigarette to avoid being caught. Or everyone constantly taking MacClaine's alcohol from her as well as her cigs. Cute little moments make it fun-- the Cuban butler getting drunk and dancing in the empty pool over a broken heart is a fun moment too.So, not original, not believable, not really great. But it's not nearly as bad as I remember. Frazer is fab at playing a snarky business man and there is definite chemistry between MacClaine and Frazer that make the whole thing not only watchable, but enjoyable if nothing else for them.A weaker story and someone like Lake who just doesn't have the magical charisma to stand up to someone like Frazer or MacClaine just reminds you what the movie is missing most of the time. If they'd cast someone with more charisma like Sandra Bullock in While You Were Sleeping, I'd have been very interested to see Sandra and Frazer together.Anyway, it's a good fluff, don't expect much and you might enjoy yourself. It's not brilliant, it's not even great, but you know, if you just want a mindless fluff and watch Frazer being snarky it's good enough. "},{"Title":"Great casting, warm and funny - great for a cold night in!","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sure it isn't a brilliant work of cinematic art, and the storyline mightn't do the actors justice, but I loved this film! Ricki Lake shows the same neuroses and uncertainty that is below the surface in all of us, instead of seeming polished as most Hollywood actresses do in such roles. I really warmed to her character, and ADORED the others! From the over-bearing, but well meaning Mother (Shirley MacLaine) and the delicious Brendan Fraser, to the funny and lovable Paco - this film had me laughing and clutching my cushion till the end. Ideal for those cold winter nights when all you want to do is snuggle on the couch with your jammies on, a bottle of wine, a bowl of popcorn and a woolly blanket, it just seems to go so well! "},{"Title":"Definitely a chick flick-Cinderella in the 20th century???","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Definitely a chick flick, but since I'm a chick.... It's a twist on Cinderella for the 20th century - but does she get the shoe? It is fun trying to figure out when each character begins to realize what is going on. Who knew that Ricki Lake could act - at least in a comedy. Shirley MacLaine carries a lot of the movie - but we all know she can act. She is able to use body language, a partial grin or frown or even use a look that can only be described as having a twinkle in her eyes to give clues to the story line. There are a couple of subplots that also keep the viewer in their seat to discover if anything will come together or completely fall apart. The last 10 minutes of the film are the best. Pay close attention - if you miss a scene, now that we have DVD, you will find yourself going back to figure out what you missed.It won't be on many peoples all time favorite movie list, but through all of the subterfuge many of the characters are involved in, plus a lot of smiles and laughter, make it a good DVD for girls to rent for a Saturday night when they don't have a date. Happily married women can enjoy it - letting them know that their life isn't really as crazy as it could be. "},{"Title":"William Irish(Cornell Woolrich) demeaned","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The third version of William Irish's absorbing psychological thriller I married a dead man,after Leisen's no man of her own (1950),starring Barbara Stanwyck, which I have not seen but would like to,Robin Davis's 1982 j'ai épousé une ombre starring Natalie Baye.That French attempt,although it did a lot of francs (no euros at the time),was a disappointment,because the heroine ,without her terrible guilty feeling,was devoid of interest, and because the scenarists felt compelled to secure a ridiculous happy end which the novel had not.William Irish's world is noir,desperate ,some of his short novels to rival the best of Poe.What about Richard Benjamin's work?It's an insult to the great writer who once gave Hitchcock rear window .You simply cannot turn an Irish tragic heroine into a Pygmalion/my fair lady character .Connie was not a crude vulgar woman,she was a frail girl who said to us at the beginning of the book-which like Benjamin's film is a long flashback- We've lost;that's all I know,we've lost.Oddly the part of the father has been ruled out,probably to make room for MacLaine who gets here the lion's share .The director does not know what he wants to do,a comedy or a thriller ,and the movie suffers accordingly.Best performanceBaby Hughie.Since I wrote my comment I had the opportunity to see no man of her own;It's the best by far! "},{"Title":"See it for Brendan Fraser!","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  See it for Brendan Fraser!He's sweet, he's sexy, he plays twin brothers who are very different.  See it for Shirley MacLaine, who is very good as his mom.But honestly, I found the way the Connie character was written abrasive and offensive, and the way she was played by Lake unappealing. Every time she spoke, it was like fingernails on a chalkboard with her potty-mouth characterization.  It felt like they were targeting white trash, so I was offended to be watching it.Still...worth it just to watch Brendan Fraser! )Paco was a neat character, too.  As a matter of fact, the only one I didn't like was the female romantic lead, Connie.  What were they thinking?And we found it in the discount bin.  Good deal! "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand why anyone thought it would be a good idea to take a classic noir thriller like Cornell Woolrich's I Married a Dead Man and turn it into a romantic comedy. With Ricki Lake as female lead. A dramatic retelling would have made for a better movie, I believe.  Richard Benjamin should never have signed up to direct this.That is why it could have been better.Now--it could have been worse.This film is not great art, but it is an engaging, pleasant, lightweight piece of entertainment.  Thanks for that should go to Brendan Fraser, Shirley MacLaine, and Miguel Sandoval, for their well-executed performances. Because of them, you can suspend your disbelief in the improbable plot (and in Miss Lake's acting) for several scenes at a time. If you like fluff, and appreciate the pleasures of an articulate Brendan Fraser in a suit (WOW--and doing the tango, yet!), you could do worse than this film. If you want to see a film version that truly works well, and has a far more compelling heroine, see the 1950 film No Man of Her Own, starring Barbara Stanwyck.  "},{"Title":"This movie is fantastic!","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie last night and sincerely believe that deserves a much higher rating.  This is one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen. The actors are great and the plot is full of kindness and generosity.  I wish to recommend Mrs. Winterbourne to all of you.  This movie is fantastic, simply fantastic! "},{"Title":"The best movie people never heard of.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I ran into this movie by accident (while channel surfing). I've seen it a number of times -- whenever a friend comes by I sit down and watch it with them again. I enjoy it more every time, it seems.   "},{"Title":"Fantastic romantic comedy!","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contrary to several comments, I throughly enjoyed this movie!  Shirley MacLaine does an outstanding performance.  The man playing Paco was very enjoyable to watch also.  Ricki Lake's acting was very good and believable (even though the times are modern, they're ARE SOME innocent young women still out there!).Oh, and Brendan Frasier!!!  He is so adorable in this movie!  Especially the tango scene.  I don't know how to tango but this scene is sooooooo romantic that I think I need to learn!I have to agree however with the comments from Wherever-in Arizona about how quickly Bill's (Brendan Frasier) character changes personality so quickly from this dry, cool and questioning guy to a fun-loving passionate guy.  Yet, who cares, this is a romantic comedy!!!  Great job Richard Benjamin. "},{"Title":"A refreshing romantic film, this one.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a fast-paced movie that offers a refreshing romantic storyline. Ricki Lane (as Connie Doyle) successfully plays the role of a woman who is trapped between what she thinks is good for her child and her conscience. Brendan Fraser (as Hugh/Bill Winterbourne) is, as always, gorgeous.  Shirley Maclaine (as Grace Winterbourne) portrays a rich lady who's hungry to see a grandchild that she forgets to protect her wealth just so she could leave these to a grandson (and daughter-in-law) she believed she has.  Let's not forget Miguel Sandoval who, as Paco, was a very charming and convincing butler.While the storyline needs more polishing to be believable, this film managed perfectly to entertain me, leaving me to forget intellectualizing on it. Thus, I spent the entire time enjoying the movie.If there is any film that amuses and entertains (and makes one believe that there still is such a thing as romance), this is it!  "}{"Title":"The premise was dated in 1950","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers are not possible for this predictable mawkish mess its as obvious as it is brainless. This film is a remake of No Man of Her Own, a 1950 clunker which starred Barbara Stanwyck.Obviously Ricki Lake is no Barbara Stanwyck, but in this film she comes across as conniving, irritating and unlike-able. Barefoot and pregnant, she is mistaken for Mrs. Winterbourne's daughter in law. This badly- concocted case of mistaken identity basically drives the weak story.Apparently despite a wedding and impending birth, Mrs Winterbourne has never seen even a picture of her son's wife. Did Shirley MacLain read the script before she signed up?Ricki Lake comes off as a tubby little tomboy; as a leading lady in a feature film she makes a great talk-show host. She says ain't a lot, just so we remember how impoverished the character was. The romance that blossoms between her and Fraser's character is not believable; together they have zero chemistry. When the jig is up and the deception is uncovered the family instantly seems to accept it because they are just so darned lovable. Maybe if they had used someone like Sandra Bullock and really made an effort to update this stinker of a storyline ... maybe then it might have been bearable. "},{"Title":"Touching But Quite Flawed","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My first bit of confusion was over exactly where this movie wanted to go. I imagined it as a romantic comedy of sorts, and yet from the very beginning it was really quite heavy, dealing as it did with young Connie (Rikki Lake) being homeless, then meeting up with a sleazebag and then being tossed out by him when he gets her pregnant. I really wasn't feeling much fun at that point in the movie. Then mistaken identity turns into deliberate deceit on Connie's part (although I understand it wasn't malicious.) Once she gets taken in by the Winterbourne's after the train wreck that kills their son and his wife (whom the family has never met, and whom Connie is mistaken for) the only character who really made sense to me was Bill (Brendan Fraser), who seemed appropriately suspicious of her given the circumstances. True, he was ridiculously obnoxious, but his suspicion was bang on, except that he then, for no obvious reason that I saw, fell head over heels in love with her, letting go of all his suspicions and deciding to marry her! Where did that come from?There are some moments of fun in this. Shirley MacLaine (as the matriarch of the Winterbourne clan) was probably the best part of the movie and provided much of the comedy, and the closing scenes (as everyone tries to protect Connie/Patricia) was quite touching, as was the point that the Winterbournes became the family she never had. There was a nice feel to that, especially because we know that Connie isn't out for the family's money, but just wants the sense of family for herself and even more for her son.There was one huge inconsistency here that just made everything else implausible, though. Bill finally figures out what's going on because he sees Patricia sign Connie Doyle on a check, and investigates who Connie Doyle is. He gets back a report that Connie and her unborn baby were killed in the train wreck (it was, of course, the real Patricia and her unborn baby who were killed.) How would he get that report? Connie wasn't supposed to be on that train. She got swept into it by a huge crowd of people, she had no ticket, and since it wasn't really Connie there would be no way of identifying the body as Connie. How then would anyone come to the conclusion that the dead body was Connie when no one knew Connie was on that train - and, in fact, no one on that train even knew Connie?This isn't an unenjoyable movie. It's quite touching, really - but it does have a lot of flaws! 5/10 "},{"Title":"charming","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've got to say I don't understand the folks who didn't like this movie. I've seen it at least 30 times and will probably watch it another 30. It's a charming movie with a decent soundtrack and pretty good acting (with an admitted exception of Ricki Lake). McClain, the butler, and Fraser shine is this under-rated flick. Lake, unfortunately, occasionally has the same bizarre facial expression (including the jutting lower jaw and fiery eyes) whether she's angry, sad, or incredibly happy. No, the plot is not particularly believable, but if I want reality, I'll turn off the television and walk outside my house. The (sudden) change in Frazer from aloof to gooey is quite explainable if one bothers to pay attention. The moment is well defined. If you want a decent date movie, go ahead and rent this one. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Winterbourne BITES!!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To all who fancied this film...MY MUM AND I BEG TO DIFFER!!  The whole flick was a load of hogwash.  Ricki Lake's acting is so-so, but it's the plot that sickens us.  After Patricia got her hair cut, she was magically cultured and Bill fell in love with her immediately.  So many things were wrong with this movie, we can't even list them all.  Watch it at your own risk of being sickened to death. "},{"Title":"Delightful but not that great","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    I saw this movie mainly to see Shirley MacLaine (that and I heard it was supposed to be really funny) and let me say that I liked it, but I was sort of dissappointed. The story-line is brilliant, but I think that the casting was all wrong. Brendon Frasier, Shirley MacLaine, Steve DeCrunzo, and that man who played Paco did FANTASTIC. Ricki Lake, well, she was a little on the bad side. She over-dramatized her part in a couple of scenes, but in other scenes she was hilarious. When she enters the room, asking Was somebody smoking in here? and Grace folds her cigarette into her mouth, I was laughing pretty hard. Then comes Grace's reply Please don't tell Paco, I'll never hear the end of it. Now that was a great scene. This, over-all, was about an 8. Ricki sort of screwed the movie up, but otherwise, it was pretty darn funny. "},{"Title":"How Sweet.....","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mrs. Winterbourne.....what can I say? Shirley does her thing. The thing she does so well, I might add.Brendan is lovely, and already demonstrates the leading man talent he has so amply proven since. Sandoval flexes his comic muscle. Very entertaining, but as somebody else pointed out; it has all been seen before. However, the real surprise is Ricki Lake. And a very good one at that. I'd only, briefly, encountered Ms. Lake in her capacity as talk show host. And I must admit; I'm very much not a fan. But as an actor she surprises very positively. She is sweet, fresh and (even facing a manuscript somewhat lacking originality) very convincing. She has talent!!! To bad she doesn't do more movies and fewer talk shows.Now that I would be happy to pay to see!!! "},{"Title":"An outstanding and heartwarming film!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   This is a wonderful movie starring two of my most favorite stars, Ricki Lake and Brendan Fraser, as well as a famed actress, Shirley MacLaine. The story follows the life of Connie Doyle, an 18 year old girl who decides to leave her family and go to New York. She meets Steve DeCunzo, a car-radio thief, who invites her in to stay with him and his friends. She suddenly gets pregnant one day by Steve but he's angry because of that, so he kicks her out and gets a new girlfriend. So she accidentally got on a train to Boston where she met charming Hugh Winterbourne and his pregnant wife Patricia Winterbourne.Unfortunately, there is a big train crash, resulting in the death of Patricia and Hugh Winterbourne. Connie Doyle is accidentally mistaken for Patricia Winterbourne and Patricia's mother-in-law, Grace Winterbourne, thinks that Patricia is still alive and invites Connie to come live with her family. Now Connie assumes the role of Patricia Winterbourne and eventually, Hugh's brother Bill finds out who she really is but doesn't say anything. At first Bill is hostile to Connie resulting in tears but eventually he comes to really like her and even deeply kisses her.They both have wonderful relationships with the delightful Cuban butler, Paco, who touched me with his role. The bad thing happens when Steve DeCunzo suddenly reappears at a party thrown by Grace, so he and Connie argue. He wants money and the baby or he threatens to reveal Connie's true identity. So she finally tries to murder him one night but finds he's already dead. Bill finds her and tells her he knows who she really is.Bill and Connie eventually get married and the real murderer, Steve's former girlfriend, is caught.  Everyone finds out who Connie really is and accepts her. What a wonderful and touching movie! I saw this movie on Lifetime TV. "},{"Title":"Rikki Lake tries to look pretty","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I got stuck watching this absolute piece of crap and I am now writing about it to cleanse my soul. Once again I see that without good writers, even great actors, (MacLaine) wished they had called in sick or checked into rehab instead of appearing this achingly painful rehash of twenty different crappy movies already made.And, please, giving a makeover to Rikki Lake is like spraying Febreze on dog crap. You just can't fix that kind of ugly with a haircut and a band aid, sorry. I will never forgive the 'writers' or 'actors' of this petrified turd of a movie. So if this does come on make sure that you have caught up to your significant other and the massive amounts of wine they have drunk to find this celluloid enema entertaining! "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie on TV and couldn't understand why anyone would bother releasing this film to theater other than to cash in on some reputable names of actors that obviously made poor decisions, furthermore why anyone would bother spending more than pocket lint to be subjected to such pathetic dribble.For starters, if this character found herself in such a sit com like situation as she did, why didn't she just tell the truth instead of dragging things out until the inevitable, tedious and way too predictable end.Brendan Fraser is a capable actor and what can I say about Shirley MacLaine. Ricki Lake although, with her best performance since Hairspray, should now reserve herself for the kind of melodrama that only daytime television affords her.After losing 2 hours of my life already to this travesty, I feel it is my duty to spare my fellow viewers from the same horror that I have just endured. "}]