[{"Title":"Beautifully done in a beautiful part of our world.","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Everyone has their opinion, and mine on this particular film, is that it's one of the best to have ever graced the screen of my TV.I'm from typical small town America, and to quite a degree,Gilead depicts this sort of life. Clannish, and less than trusting, when it comes to new folks, but what impressed me as much as anything was the unbelievable authenticity of Alison Elliotts southern accent. I had to look her up on the net to see if she was from the south, or not. She's not, but I am, and being familiar with my own accent, I can tell you she did it perfectly.I've watched it about six, or seven times, and will likely watch it that many more before Let it rest for a while.If you like beautiful scenery, small town life, and folks who are just a little short of being odd, you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant! Wonderful script, acting, music and message.","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the reviews below states I notice most of the negative reviews have been posted by men who obviously have no sensitivity.  Well, as a 51 yr old man, I can tell you that I really loved this film and it did touch my heart and spirit.  One of the best films that I have seen!The three lead actresses were superb, especially Alison Elliott as Percy.  It was all so 'real', and portrays small town life in an authentic, respectful manner. Everything was refreshing, including the deeper messages about life's struggles regarding relationships and inner psychological problems.Why aren't more films this good?  Indeed !!For me, this film is better than Fried Green Tomatoes since it is not so blatantly anti-male (think about this!).  "},{"Title":"The Spitfire Grill","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an excellent chic flick. Have the Kleenex box close by, it's a real tear jerker. The movie takes place in a small New England town. It's social comment is Don't judge a book by it's cover. Poor Percy was jailed for the crime of killing her tormentor. She did her time and paid for her crime but not everybody felt that way. Nahum, in particular, had a rough lesson to learn about judgement. What Percy doesn't know is that she is going to be the catalyst to ignite growth again in the little town of Gilead. She helps every townie in one way or another with her simple, uneducated truths and her honest and open view of the world. She's a breath of fresh air this town needed if it was going to grow and mature. Take a look at this movie. You will find it gets under your skin and you are rooting for Percy to make this her home, this little town named Gilead. "},{"Title":"Get your Kleenex out for this one...","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Go rent or buy this video!!! I didn't recognize many of the actors, but they were Award quality. Of course, I know Ellen Bursten but the main character was soooo good and perfect for this role. I love the story of the son, Johnny B...very moving. The talents of this character are remarkable...the things he makes out of nature. It makes you feel like you are in this small little town, getting to know all the people. I've never lived in a small town, but this is like Hometown America. It was tragic, funny, sad, romantic, and just the place you would want to visit. I watched this movie over 6 times already and I will never get tired of it. A classic to be sure!  "},{"Title":"Small town USA","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Spitfire Grill does a wonderful job capturing the small town New England landscape. The setting for the movie is important as its characters. Both begin to blend from the start of the story. Alison Elliott is by far terrific. At times, Alison Elliott resembles a young Jodie Foster as she plays this innocent, yet troubled youngster as she tries to start fresh with a new life in a new town. At times, the story takes on a biblical tale of forgiveness and loving thy neighbor. A perfect movie about respect and acceptance, The Spitfire Grill takes on a life of its own as the story builds and builds with more secrets. A nice ending that brings everything together and answers all the questions. Alison Elliott is great. "},{"Title":"Once again Hollywood's reviews mean nothing","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie got pretty bad reviews from the Hollywood Hype-mongers. I suppose because it didn't have a lot of flash. All it had was a well-written original story and superb acting with real characters. Anyone who has ever spent time in a small town can identify with nearly all the characters. I could practically name them all in the town I grew up in. I'm sure the only people who would NOT enjoy this movie are the ones who grew up in Hollywood and believe everyone is like them. If thats not you, rent this movie for a truly enjoyable evening. But you might want to bring tissues. It's a very warm and often funny movie, but it's also very sad in some places. Will Patton is incredible and I honestly don't understand why Alison Elliott hasn't been used more than she has since this movie. Ellen Burstyn was glorious as ever ) "},{"Title":"A really good movie.","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As the first scene unfolds we see women apparently working in a travel office, giving information to those who call. But as the camera pulls back, and we see bars, we realize it is a prison, and the inmates are unusual employees of the state of Maine.Set in Gilead, Maine, Percy Talbot (Alison Elliot) is being released from 5 years behind bars and travels here to pick up her life, and in the process helps heal a small town. Originally from Ohio, nothing has gone good for her yet. Now, in town, the local sheriff forgot that he was supposed to see about her. But nice older owner of the Spitfire Grill, Hannah (Ellen Burstyn), takes Percy in and puts her to work. In this very small town everyone is curious about Percy, but none as much as Hannah's nephew, Nahum (Will Patton), who has taken it upon himself to watch out for Hannah. He simply does not trust Percy, even though she is a model employee. Marcia Gay Harden is good as Nahum's simpleton wife, Shelby.Hannah unwisely uses a chair at home above the grill to get something high and falls, breaking her leg. Percy and Shelby share duties to keep the grill running somewhat smoothly. But Hannah decides she needs to get rid of the business and Nahum has not been successful selling it for her. Percy had once heard about someone holding a contest, told Shelby about it, who suggested it to Hannah, and off they were, to the consternation of Nahum. The inmate friends of Shelby got the notice in newspapers all over the USA, and entries rolled in, with $100 bills included for the entry fee.The contest was successful beyond their dreams, pulling in so many entries that all the townspeople had to pitch in, reading essays and helping pick the winner. But Nahum became very nervous about all the money, still not trusting Percy.MAJOR SPOILERS. To be on the safe side, Nahum sneaked into Hannah's place at night to get the money and put it in a cloth sack to carry it to a safe place. However, Percy came in at that time to gather the food items for Hannah to put out each night for the mysterious man that she came to call Johnny Bee (from Johnny Be Good), used the sack not knowing money was in it, and put it out at the usual place near the wood pile. The next day when it was discovered that all the money was gone Nahum could have done the right thing but played dumb instead, everyone was chasing Percy, who was looking for Johnny Bee, spooked by all the cops and dogs. Percy was trying to cross the river to get to him when she was swept away and over some rapids and drowned. At her funeral Nahum admitted his role, and took responsibility for Percy's death.MORE SPOILERS. Johnny Bee turned out to be Hannah's long lost son, who was never the same after the war. Police found the money at his campsite in the woods, he had begun to use some of it to make artistic designs. In the end he came back to be with his mother, having been shown some hope by his interactions with Percy. We learn that Percy had been sexually abused from the age of 9 by her step-dad, who impregnated her when she was 16. He also caused the death of her unborn baby, and she killed him because of the abuse, but still got 5 years' prison time.The movie ends as we see another new face in town, a 20-something young lady with a small son, the winner of the essay contest and new owner of the Spitfire Grill, so named for the WW2 fighter plane that Hannah's husband had been fond of. We hear her essay in a voice over, her wanting to make a new start for her young son. "},{"Title":"Truly excellent character study--Highly underrated !!!","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just loved this movie. Perfectly cast. What a sleeper. Alison Elliott should been cast as the replacement for Jodie Foster in the Silence of the Lambs series.  SEE IT! "},{"Title":"About LOVE, SUFFERING, HONESTY, and MEN...","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was written and directed by a MAN, Lee David Zlotoff, whose only other major film contribution was creating the MacGyver TV series. How could such a MAN convey the deep sensitivity in 'Spitfire Grill'? Percy's boyfriend, the sheriff, and Ely all are portrayed as sensitive and caring MEN.  Isn't it strange that some of the MALE film critics could not feel this film with their hearts?MacGyver director-writer Zlotoff was honest enough to show the faults of MEN, and woman as well. Tremendous care and perception was needed to successfully convey the multi-layered messages in this film. Not only did Zlotoff  do justice to MEN, but to women as well. The themes of Love, Suffering, and the Truth were all superbly enacted.Bravo !  "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!!!!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Spitfire Grill has got to be among the most moving films I have ever seen. It shows that there is always a chance for redemption, no matter how grueling or nefarious your past was. The acting was so dexterous, and the characters were very well developed. Rather than passing judgment over Percy for being incarcerated, the movie conveys a genuine compassion for her and makes an effort to expose her lovable, affectionate side. I felt I could identify with her, because I know what it's like to be judged, condemned, and ostracized. The ending almost brought me to tears, and it's difficult for a movie to do that. Certainly deserves a 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Why aren't all movies this good?","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Can't believe that anybody could write a poor review of this film.  It is absolutely one of the best pictures I have seen in a very long time. Anybody who criticizes it just doesn't get it.  But then again, I notice most of the negative reviews have been posted by men who obviously have no sensitivity.Between Mr. Zlotoff's excellent writing and James Horner's awesome score, I was just blown away by this movie. It is just a beautiful film. I just wish that this would be the type and caliber of what Hollywood would offer us as a form of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Fried red potatoes","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For a film that won the audience award at Sundance, this film must have played briefly in this area, as I have no memory of it when it was released. I saw it on cable recently; it was a surprise, but in retrospect, there are a few things that bothered me later.It appears this is the first film for the director. Lee David Zlotoff is a product of television, as far as I've learned. Not having seen anything he has created before, I can only compare this film to similar fare one sees in the movie-of-the-week film made for that medium.I have no way of knowing if the accents these actors speak are really from Maine, or from the South, as I have never met any one from that state where the action takes place. That said, the film will not disappoint because it tells a good story. It's easy to like, although it is predictable.Young Percy Talbot can't shake her past. Instead of fleeing to a big city and getting lost there, she selects the small town of Gilead in rural Maine. Her choice of locales will proves Percy wrong. In the town, she manages to touch the lives of a lot of the local folk, who in return, show her kindness, after an initial rejection.Allison Elliott was effective as the young woman. Ellen Burstyn, as Hannah, is quite good. Marcia Gay Harden underplays Shelby, the woman who gains Percy's trust. Will Patton is the only one that has nothing to do in the film. "},{"Title":"This film is about how the action of one can affect many.","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have only just seen this wonderful film on TV and it has touched me beyond what words can describe. It is the story of how the arrival of a young woman, who has just been released from prison, comes to a small town as an outsider who is a bit rough around the edges at first. Percy is trying to make a new start in a picturesque town where everyone knows everyone and where strangers and change are perceived as a threat to normal life.The depth of the characters and all the normal life's tragedies and people's strength and frailties are in perfect balance and wonderfully written and portrayed by the actors. In a small community like this town, it is much easier to see that the action of one affects many people around. Percy touches the lives of many people, but some of them do not realize how special she is until it is too late. But the changes and beauty she brings to the town outlive her in the hearts of these people.This film shows love, beauty, redemption as well as great sorrow and loss. It is a true masterpiece!  "},{"Title":"Very Good Story","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A young woman, Percy (Elliott), is released from prison and goes to a small town in Maine to start over. She gets a job at the Spitfire Grill run by Hannah (Burstyn). Starting over in a small New England town with its clannish ways and suspicions of strangers is not easy and Percy has a hard row to hoe.A friend of mine said they don't make movies like this anymore and he is right. The owner of the Prime Time Video store says this movie is always going out the door and did surmise that it might be a cult movie. He has not seen it yet. Well, it's not a cult movie. It's simply a very good story.It's a wonderful true to life story about three women (Gay Harden being the other one) who carry their baggage with them and try to get by. Percy is haunted by her past; Hannah is guilt-ridden regarding her family; and Shelby (Gay Harden) is tormented by her husband. All three need each other to understand each is not alone.I went back to 1996 and 1997 to see if this movie or stars had been nominated for anything in the Academy Awards. Nothing was found, but there should have been something or someone nominated. I would have guessed that Marcia Gay Harden would have been nominated for a best supporting actress award. She would have had my vote.Although made in 1996, I suppose this is the type of movie that goes out the door a lot because of word of mouth. If you see this movie, pass it on. It is a very good story.BTW the friend who recommended this to me owes me a box of Kleenix. Yeah, you're gonna need it. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Sensitive Movie","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Percy Talbott (Alison Elliot) is a young woman, who has just left jail, and goes to Gillead, a small town in Maine looking for a new beginning of her life. She gets a job in a diner place called Spitfire Grill, owned by Hannah Ferguson Ellen Burstyn). Hannah lost her beloved son Elli in Vietnam, and is a very aggressive woman. Her nephew Nahum Goddard (Will Patton) is the local real-estate broker and has been trying to sell the place for ten years. He mistreat his wife Shelby Goddard (Marcia Gay Harden), questioning her intelligence most of the time. When Percy arrives in town, she changes the behavior not only of Hannah and Shelby, but of the local citizen, and deep secrets are disclosed. I bought the VHS Spitgrill Fire in 1998 and only today I have watched it. It is a sensitive story, filmed in beautiful locations in Maine and very supported by the performance by the outstanding central trio of actresses. The story is delightful most of the time and although having a good message in the end, I did not like the fate of Percy. I know life may be unfair, there are many envious and prejudicial people, but the story is fiction so I believe the writer used a very heavy hand to conclude the destiny of Percy. I would prefer a most commercial end for her character. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Spitfire Grill &#150; O Recomeço (Spittfire Grill &#150; The New Beginning) "},{"Title":"My favorite film; despite small melodrama toward end, a gorgeous, humbling, sensitive, carefully wrought film about pain, and about how love heals pain","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For most of my life I've sort of stated that the well-received, sort of hyped Best-Picture type films (Fight Club, American Beauty, Godfather, English Patient, etc. etc. etc.) have been my favorite films.But then I saw The Spitfire Grill. Or rather, I saw a preview for it. And I somehow knew that this film would surpass all others in its beauty and simplicity.The story is simple, the themes universal, the cinematography drop-dead gorgeous, and the music haunting. Allison Elliot and Ellen Burstyn are prime actors of their generations. If you ever want to watch a film about the mistakes we all inevitably can make, the relationships and friendships we all eventually have to form to heal us, and the power of forgiveness and helping others, and the transcendent, trans formative power of love and connecting to nature in a way that reminds of our unity, watch The Spitfire Grill. I don't think I've ever cried more emotionally at the end of a movie, and not a hard sobbing, but more like a life-draining, emotionally cathartic cry. Absolutely unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found myself liking this movie for several reasons.  The strong performances from the 3 leading characters, particulary Alison Elliott. Her character had a good heart as we can see from the progression of the movie, yet she still had that edge to her.  Which I think was important because she had such a tragic past and to have survived 5 years in prison, that could not change overnight.I absolutely loved the beautiful scenery and the country elements, hearing the owls, seeing the breath of the actors because of the cold.  Being from the country and now living in a very populated city, I alone watch it for these reasons!Hearing Alison's accent makes me miss being in Ky where I grew up.  She really nailed it and I had not heard come hell or high water in such a long time.  Movies move people in so many ways, and this one will always be one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie about human relationships and their effects","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Undoubtedly, one of the best movies around.  The study of relationships and the effect of those relationships are amazing.  Very tender, very moving. Preconceived ideas are certainly put to flight.  This is a movie for everyone.  You will not be disappointed.   "},{"Title":"Slow-burning gem of movie","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Saw this on TV late one night and couldn't tear myself away. The characters are, perhaps, the most engrossing and endearing ones I have seen in a long time. It is a movie which surpasses all of your expectations and usurps all of your preconceptions about 'movies like this'. It's only the second movie that has ever made me cry.Forget everything anyone says about this film. See it for yourself and make up your own mind. You won't be sorry.Anyone who ever had a heart ... etc. etc. "},{"Title":"A true gem.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A rare movie. A good plot. Good acting. I would rate this as one of the 250 best of all time. It is not many movies that leave you with a feeling of wow, that was great. This is one. Recommended that everyone who wants to experience hope sees it. "}{"Title":"Unique... words would never be enough","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nowadays it's extremely hard to come across a movie that involves so much in the simple premise. The plot itself is riveting. A flawless plotline where the nail's hit in the head at every point. The direction alone is soulsearching. Alison Elliot delivers one of the strongest performances I've seen in years, as well as the rest of the cast. And I know I can say that twice and mean it. This movie is a must for everyone who enjoys art at the top of its form. I won't let my words spoil the film if the reader has not seen it yet, just lay back, and enjoy one of the best pictures I've seen and felt, I know too many words like this can cause people to look for a flaw wherever they may find one, but I can only say that this work is deep enough to bear wrongful comments and survive and still be such a warm story. Two thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"Ayuh, True Enough Account On all Parts","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Little sleeper flick that didn't get a lot of attention in the mainstream. I was born and and live about 30 minutes away from the 'Spit Fire Grill.' Character depictions of the locals is fair enough, but the story line is universal. Who amongst us hasn't judged another ? And who hasn't been judged ? We've all made mistakes, intentional or not, and this movie shows the good, the bad, the ugly, and MAYBE.... the HOPE. It ain't preachy, but I honestly think that MOST people could gain something from watching this movie. I did.ly, K, kab "},{"Title":"Two leads can't prevent slip into melodrama","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When this won the audience award at the Sundance Film Festival in 1996, a lot of critics sharpened their knives, because the film was produced with money from a religious group, and they thought it was pushing religion on the masses.  The truth is, only a couple of scenes take place at a church, and there's nothing particularly religious about the storyline.  Having got that out of the way, this is another instance where good performances and a promising story are sunk by melodrama.  The two good performances are Alison Elliot as Percy, the ex-convict, and the underrated Marcia Gay Harden as Shelby, the housewife who becomes her best friend.  The movie is best in the scenes between the two of them(like when they're cooking breakfast together at the grill for the first time), and I also liked the way first time director Lee David Zlotoff uses the outdoors.  But he's got a lot to learn about writing, as the movie gradually becomes melodramatic, with so much plot thrown in you're suffocating in it.  Also, Will Patton, who I like, is stuck playing such a one-note character he might as well have Warning Plot Device written on him, and Ellen Burstyn does her crotchety old woman again.  All in all, a missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Of The 20th Century","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The divine goodness and love in all of us is masterfully shown by the fabulous actress Alison Elliott whose portrayal of the deep genius of love in the powerful soul of a young innocently convicted girl shows us all how glorious each of us can be and how we can cause horrible results come from our laziness, ignorance or indifference. Next to the story of Jesus' life, this story of the strength that comes from her soul demands that we all pause to consider what we are actually doing with our lives. This is a story of mysteries, people, roles in life, good and bad efforts and what affect each of us can have on all of us. For me, this is the most powerful story from the 20th century and Alison Elliott almost got a leading actress Academy Award nomination which she most certainly deserved. WATCH THIS GREAT MOVIE, originally titled In Care of The Spitfire Grill ! IT WILL ENRICH AND ENNOBLE YOUR LIFE. This story is about personal transfiguration in the Holiest way possible. "},{"Title":"A great tear jerker","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How I missed seeing this movie in the 90s is beyond me. This movie is something that everyone should have in their collection at home. I cried my eyes out towards the end after seeing it for the first time this week. It should teach people NOT to judge a book by its cover. It just shows how heartless some people can be in real life. I can still remember Ellen when she played the role of Nurse Rachett in One Flew Over the Cockoo's Nest. The young lady that plays Percy was so right for this part. I could never say enough about this movie. It will be one of my old time favorites like High Noon, King Kong, The Wizard of Oz, Cat Ballou, etc. "},{"Title":"A magnificent, must see movie if you don't just like explosions.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this on an airplane (I never watch movies on planes) because I was bored and I thought it was the diverting Holly Hunter movie, The Spitfire Girl.  It quickly caught my interest.  I taped it when it came on cable, and have seen it several times since.  So many great performances, such passion and emotion.  I like big, noisy, violent movies a lot, but this is the kind of small, quiet movie that I remember. "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully, uplifting Film!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can I say? The Spitfire Grill is a rare film that holds your attention throughout the movie. Where there is some misguided ideas, there is not one evil person in the whole movie. The characters are well developed and you feel as though you know each one intimately. The scenery is beautiful, too, and you almost feel as though you are living in the town with the characters. I would highly recommend this film to anyone of any age. 10 stars! "},{"Title":"State of Grace","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Everything's perfect. The actors, music (James Horner), landscape. One of the most touching films I've came across. If you don't cry by the end of this movie you have no soul at all. Saw it first on VHS on a day I needed a last VHS for a promotion of 3 titles for rent. After waiting some years to see if would come on DVD I finally bought the Australian version that is anamorphic and doubles as R4/R2 even when it says it's R4. Suffice to say it's the only DVD I own that hasn't subtitles in Portuguese (and I've got about 800 titles). I understand why the religious polemic, for it's about guilt, redemption, sacrifice, but frankly, who gives a damn about that, when a film moves you to tears. "},{"Title":"Good But Derivative","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Percy (Alison Elliott), upon being released from prison, goes to the small town of Gillead, to find a place where she can start over again. She is taken in by Hannah (Ellen Burstyn), to help out at her place, the Spitfire Grill. Percy brings change to the small town, stirring resentment and fear in some, and growth in others.Roger Ebert wrote, Watching this plot unfold, I was remembering last week's 'Heavy,' which also premiered at Sundance; its cafe was run by an older woman (Shelley Winters), and had a veteran waitress (Deborah Harry) and a young waitress (Liv Tyler), and had a regular customer whose name was Leo, not Joe, although he was played by Joe Grifasi. Also echoing in the caverns of my memory were several other movies about stalwart women running cafes and striding above the local gossip The Ballad of the Sad Cafe, Fried Green Tomatoes, Staying Together and of course Bagdad Cafe. Indeed, something about this film felt derivative or cheap, like it belonged on the Lifetime network and not as a film championed by the fine folks at Sundance. Some say this is a forgotten sleeper hit, and I disagree. Others say the score was overlooked, and that I will agree with. James Horner is one of the bigger names out there, and this effort is no exception. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a very touching but bittersweet independent film. Slow and gentle. It concerns a young woman named Percy who wishes to reconcile her unsavory past in the small town of Giliad Maine but she is haunted by the very past that she wishes to overcome. Many people would like a chance to start over but life does not always afford then that opportunity. Nonetheless, we all still do affect others in ways that are not always seen. And therein lies the tale of redemption. A redemption that is sometimes too late in coming. Yet there is still hope in the unfairness all around us. And compassion to be found. Don't expect a Hollywood ending here. But who really wants one in this context? It's been said that Hollyweood films depict life as we would like to see it. But independent films depict life as it is. Small towns are hesitant enough about welcoming newcomers, yet Percy's arrival and her spirit is sensed as being something altogether different and the town finds itself changed forever. The inviting musical score by James Horner renders a sweet ambiance, consoling with a subdued drifty quality that lulls the soul in its wake. "}{"Title":"Spitfire Grill-Get The Charcoal Ready for this One ***","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Whatever became of Alison Elliott, the heroine of this film? She gave an extremely believable performance here as a woman released from prison for killing the stepfather who had impregnated her and then had caused the death of the baby by beating the mother.Ellen Burstyn is the old lady who Elliott goes to work for. As always, Burstyn again proves that she is at her best when she does her mean, crotchety acting. It's another fine job.The story will tug at your heart since it's a tragic one. It again proves that you can't always judge people by what has happened in their lives. This misconception brings on the tragedy at the end that will drive you to tears.Note an interesting performance by Marcia Gay Harden, as a blond, worker of the Burstyn character who befriends Elliott.This is a very good study of rural life and human relationships. "},{"Title":"Gilead","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I like movies that have lasting effect in my mind, and that make me think about the meaning of some scenes over and over. This movie is that kind. There may be many similar movies but this one is different from any of those.A young woman gets off a bus in a small excluded town Gilead in Mane, US. In this town, three women who have different kinds of psychological trauma as a mother work together in a restaurant The Spitfire Grill.The protagonist is Percy (Alison Elliot). There are mysteries in her words and behavior. But as the story goes, the deep scar in her mind hidden behind the mystery is gradually revealed. The second woman is Hannah (Ellen Burstyn). She runs a restaurant Spitfire Grill. She has her own, deep scar in her mind. The third is Shelby (Marcia Gay Harden). Though she is very warmhearted, her husband always insults her. Maybe she is the one you can easily empathize.Perhaps, there is a meaning in the name of the town, Gilead. At the near end of the movie, we hear a black spiritual song There is a balm in Gilead. The name Gilead comes from biblical world, which produces frankincense that was much-prized as medicine. The first stanza of the song is as follows There is a balm in Gilead / To make the wounded whole; / There is a balm in Gilead / To heal the sin sick soul. The key to understand the heart of the movie may be in the lyrics. "},{"Title":"The trepidation of accepting an ex-con in a country setting.","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I happen to love chick flicks-if that is what this film is categorized as.I love this movie, as do so many others who've made comments before me in the IMDb site. It was one of those films where I held my breath throughout, sensing an evil that would probably overtake the heroine before the picture ended.And so it did. The ending angered me greatly...here we have this wonderful character Percy who begins to grow on the residents and is finally being accepted,except for one mouthy,jealous bigot,- real-estate agent Nahum Goddard,who will not accept Percy into their midst.This misshapen belief finally leads to a grave misunderstanding by the citizenry who hunt Percy down, which ends in her drowning in a rushing stream. At the end Nahum admits he was wrong to judge Percy so harshly but darn it all the harm has been done. I was angry at director Lee David Zlotoff who had the power to make this a happy ending. He wrote the script!!! Let's say for example that Nahum Goddard had drowned saving Percy in that stream. The man would have gone to his death via an act of redemption (isn't that a religious quality held dear by a tight Christian community) and our heroine would have gone on living happily ever after in a comfortable setting. I saw this film when it came out, and I even have 2-3 copies of it on DVD and VHS but I can just not watch it again. I know how sad the ending will be. I still give the film a 9 1/2 though,it was still a great production.(I need to express my ratings in fractions). If Percy had not been killed off I would have given it a 10 for perfection, no question. I'm sorry, but if a beloved character is killed off unnecssarily, then I can not give the film a 10. Too bad I had not been in one of the advance screenings to express my views. If film companies and the Director/Producer want a 10 from me they had better try for a happy,or at least satisfying ending if at all possible. So much of life is a tragedy and that's why in part we go to the movies to get away from reality, to get a quick shot of hope and to see some element of happiness, even in dramatic circumstances.Percy did not deserve to die after all of us had fallen so much in love with her persona. Could we stand a Spitfire Grill 2 where she miraculously appears one day alive and well? Probably not...Darn it all Lee David Zlotoff, what were you thinking? "},{"Title":"The Spitfire Grill will warm your heart","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The inspiring story of Percy Talbot(Allison Elliot), recently released from prison & looking to start over, finds her way to the New England small town of Gilead. Percy meets & works for cantankerous grill owner Hannah Ferguson(Ellen Burstyn) who takes no mess, relies on no one, & shows little compassion. Hannah's nephew Nahum Goddard(Will Patton), ever cynical & mistrusting, warns his aunt of Percy's past & intentions. Tough & determined, Percy works hard and stays out of trouble. When Hannah takes a fall(breaks her leg), she must lean on Percy to run the grillwhile bedridden. Lack of cooking skills make Percy's debut a total disaster. Luckily for Percy, Hannah calls in Nahum's wife Shannon(Marcia Gay Harden) to help with the cooking. Percy & Shannon work side by side building a quick friendship & mutual respect for one another. Percy soon meets Joe Sperling(Kieran Mulroney, a handsome young local man, who takes a liking to Percy & wants more than just a friendship. Percy guards herself & her feelings so much that she pushes Joe away. Joe finds himself falling in love with Percy & is crushed by her refusal to marry him.Hannah, showing some trust, asks Percy to put a sack of canned goods on a stump in the back for someone to pick up before turning in for the night. Percy obliges but is very curious of the stranger who comes to get the sack. Percy waits up for the stranger who she labels Johnnie B. & follows him into the woods. Losing the stranger, Percy returns to the Grille to an angry Hannah. Hannah tells Percy to mind her own affairs & that the only hope of getting to the stranger was ruined. Percy goes for a quiet walk in the meadow & is quietly approached & touched by the Johnnie B. Hannah, tired & overworked, looks to sell the Grille & retire. Percy comes up with an idea to hold a writing contest with the best essay winning the Spitfire Grille as the grand prize. Each contestant must write an essay on why they deserve the Grille & send in a fee. Hannnah agrees & along with Percy & Shannon, the three read the essays to decide a winner.Hannah puts all the fee money into her safe until the contest is over. Nahum, up to no good, takes the money out of Hannah's safe & blames Percy & her accomplice in the woods for robbing her. Nahum gets the Sheriff & angry locals to form a posse & apprehend Percy & the stranger. Percy hides in the church for sanctuary & is found by Shannon. Percy tells Shannon of why she was in prison & about the child she lost to family services. A sympathetic Shannon tells Percy that Nahum & the posse are closing in on her & her partner in crime. Percy realizes that the posse will find Johnnie B. & that she must find him before they do. Percy chases after Johnnie B. & accidentally is swept into a strong river undertow. Johnnie B. finds Percy downriver, soaked & dead. Nahum, shocked & bewildered, sees Johnnie B. or Eli, Hannah's long lost son who disappeared after serving in Vietnam. The town holds Percy's funeral with which Nahum tells the truth about his misdeed. Now that the truth is out, Hannah must still decide on the essay contest winner. A winner is chosen & Hannah prepares for the arrival. Walking down the road, the winner stops in Gilead Park to meet everyone for the first time. It is young woman with a baby boy in tow, nervous & excited to begin a new life & opportunity for her son in Gilead. The following day, Hannah is awakened to find a stranger sitting in a booth. To her surprise & delight, Hannah is seated across the table from her long lost son Eli Ferguson. Hannah holds his hands warmly as tears run down her face. Hannah is whole again & her heart beats with love.A wonderfully acted film with a great cast in Elliot, Burstyn, Patton, & Gay Harden. This was a terrific performance by Marcia Gay Harden, who got critical acclaim at the Sundance Film Festival. A movie worth a good long look. Don't miss this one, ya hear!!! "},{"Title":"An Excellent Character Driven Movie","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw Spitfire Grill shortly after it came out on video and today I just saw it again on HBO, and so I've confirmed to myself that this movie truly is excellent. The acting, writing, plot, subplots, editing, cinematography, and sound are all of excellent quality which allows one to become immersed in this story.I suppose that one may not like it if they are suffering from Attention Deficit Disorder or similar ailments, because you really need to just be able to sit down, relax, and enjoy the show. Seeing this movie currently rated near 7, is a little disappointing because this movie is so rich. My guess is that the people who gave it a low score probably didn't watch it, or perhaps think only cool special effects and nonstop action make for a great movie.This movie is more akin to Shawshank Redemption in the way it presents itself, without the narration. Shawshank is probably my personal favorite movie regardless of category, and I usually prefer comedies and sci-fi action type movies. But like Shawshank, this movie rates pretty high with me too. So if you're able to enjoy Shawshank Redemption, you'll enjoy Spitfire Grill. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Inspiring","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched The Spitfire Grill last night and am reminded again of Neil Young's words in A Man Needs A Maid, A while ago somewhere I don't know when I was watching a movie with a friend.  I fell in love with the actress. She was playing a part that I could understand. Alison Elliot was incredible in this movie.  I was totally captivated by her moving performance.  She was believable, she wasn't overdone, she was just perfect. The strongest point of the movie was being able to think about it when it was done, and then watch it over with your new thoughts in your brain (similarly to the Usual Suspects, but in a completely different way).  The Spitfire Grill is an incredible story of inspiration that takes it strongest themes seemingly from the Bible. Percy appears to be a Christ figure in the movie who ultimately sacrifices her own life so that the relationship between mother and son could be mended (Christ mended the relationship between fallen man and God with His sacrificial death). Forgiveness was a driving force behind the movie as well Nahum being forgiven at the end of the movie, Percy being forgiven for her past, the reconciliation between Eli and Hannah... If the Biblical theme isn't obvious now, the list of names from the people and places is a dead give-away Gilead, Nahum, Bethlehem, Hannah, Meshach, Eli etc.I could continue on, but I want to think more about it.A great movie, I give it a ten!Soli Deo Gloria  "},{"Title":"To a town with warmth comes a girl with a heart.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     If you are an action/thriller fan, do not see this move. If you're looking for the very human interactions between strangers and how one girl can change a town and the people in it, this movie is for you.   The interaction between three spirited women Percy (Alison Elliott), Hannah (Ellen Burstyn) and Shelby (Marcia Gay Harden) is enduring, feisty, genuine and heartwarming to watch. I felt myself admiring all three of them for being true to themselves and to each other.   Perchance Percy Talbot is a twenty-something young girl who decides that Gilead, Maine is the most beautiful place in the world where she can live her new life, her second chance.  After serving five years in prison in upper New England, she chooses Gilead, one of the few choices she has had in life.  Her crime?  I won't give it away here but let's just say that Percy should not have been in prison at all. You'll agree when you find out why.  Percy did not have many choices in her life but she makes the most of choosing Gilead as her home. She chose Gilead after seeing photographs of it and hearing about it from the people she spoke to while working the phone lines at prison for the Tourist Division.  She knows all the folklore and legends of Gilead and some of the legend and lore surprise some of the good people of Gilead who embrace their unique reputation. In choosing Gilead to live, Percy places her very real hopes of a new life, free from her past with this refrain, There is a balm in Gilead that heals a wounded soul.   One of Percy's insights in the movies in when Percy is helping Hannah with a cast on her leg and observes that the healing of a deep wound might be as painful as what caused the deep wound to start with. Find out Percy's heart, secrets and hurts and see how her warmth and spirited heart melts a few hearts in Gilead and any preconceived notions they have of her, a stranger with a past. Of the few choices in Percy's life, Gilead seems the most healing and promising choice of all.   After her release from prison she finds room, board and a job with Hannah Ferguson played divinely and wonderfully by Academy Award winner Ellen Burstyn, who has owned the Spitfire Grill for many years.  The Spitfire Grill is a run-down but colorful diner in small Gilead, the only one it has.  Like everything else in Gilead, the Spitfire Grill has a history in a town so small that the postmaster of it's post office is offended when too much mail starts to arrive. Everyone knows everything about everyone else and when Percy Talbot arrives, it's just what Gilead needed.     Hannah decides to finally sell the Spitfire Grill and uses an essay contest as a way to sell it after Shelby and Percy convinces Hannah that it would work. Will Patton plays Hannah's son, married to Shelby and he has it out for Percy based only on the fact that she spent five years in prison. Shelby, his wife (Marcia Gay Harden) takes to Percy and befriends her at the Spitfire Grill.  When Hannah has an accident, Shelby jumps in to help Percy run the Spitfire Grill and this is when Percy learns that one of her duties is late at night.  She fills an empty bag with canned foods, takes it to a tree stump behind the Grill and leaves it there for a mysterious person who lives in the mountains behind the Spitfire Grill. A person who changes Percy life forever. Who this person is, is Hannah's deep secret.   It is on this secret that Percy's life and heart soon become part of Gilead and also the reason for the surprising ending of the movie. Just who the person in the mountains is, comes in the end -- to the shock of everyone in Gilead, especially Hannah.   This is a heartwarming movie that chronicles events in a small town when a young girl with a past comes to it with hopes of healing and a new life, believing that Gilead is where she belongs and needs to be.   In summary, The Spitfire Grill is the heart and pulse of Gilead; and Percy Talbot brings so much warmth to Gilead that she heals some broken hearts but the surprise ending just may break yours. Wonderful casting and beautiful scenery, the Spitfire Grill has a future indeed because of the girl with the past, Percy Talbot.   Directed by Lee David Zlotoff and the winner of the 1996 Sundance Film Festival Audience Award.  Do not miss this great American movie. "},{"Title":"Outstanding performences all around, and the story is very good","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Allison Elliot gives a great performance in The Spitfire Grill. Its a story about a girl, who serves her time in prison, and after her term is over, goes to a small town in Maine to try to start her life over again. Extremely well done, the acting is nothing short of outstanding, and the scenery is beautiful. Good movie*** out of **** "},{"Title":"One of the better movies of the last 10 years.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie intriguing and riveting.  The opening scene in the prison is a real grabber.  I thought the character development was outstanding. The actors were remarkable.  Especially the lead Allison Elliot.  I have never seen her before or since. She should be in something else with her skill and talent.  This is the only movie in the last few years I can recall seeing where redemption is used.  I thought Hollywood forgot that it existed. "},{"Title":"Amazing acting - especially Ellen Burstyn ...","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ok, I loved this movie and have seen it many, many times. I am unclear as to why so many label it as sentimental crap - aren't there more than one type of film out there? Yes, I suppose most would classify this as a chick-flick, however, my 28 year-old husband (who is covered in tattoos and body piercing) cried watching this, so I guess typical stereotypes don't always apply.Allison Elliot is fantastic and I have to wonder why she hasn't been in more films since then ... she really nailed it. Now Ellen Burstyn is, as always, magnificent. I mean she can play anything! The plot was genuine & remarkable and kept me engrossed ( even the sixth time I saw it! ).****** SPOILERS AHEAD ***********Burstyn was best at the end of the movie when she saw Eli sitting in her cafe - hands shaking, voice breaking - - she is one of the best actresses around. Allison Elliot was just plain great through the whole movie - my favorite part is when she is sitting on the cliff singing the Gilead song and Eli comes up behind her - how she was so desperate for human contact & affection and had so much respect for Eli that she didn't even turn around.Now if I have to tell you my least favorite part ( and this is being SUPER PICKY ) it's when Joe sees the new girl Clare walking into town... I'm sure the director was insinuating this was the type of girl Percy had said was meant to be his wife, but he just looked at her like he had found a new piece of meat. I mean, he was supposed to have been in love with Percy and I guess I thought this was pretty fast. I wish they had him look at her differently, maybe with wistful interest instead of stopping dead in his tracks. I told you this was being VERY picky! Now that I think of it, from the looks of Gilead, Joe was the only person under 50 so maybe I would look pretty excited too!***  A GREAT MOVIE WELL WORTH SEEING! ****** "}{"Title":"quite good","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was an excellent movie about a young lady who gets released from prison and tries to start life anew in a small town, where she gets a job at the title restaurant. Once there, however, she finds that she can't escape local gossip and suspicion. A rather nasty man makes it harder for her, spreading most of the gossip and once even framing her for theft. She holds her own, however. So does this impressive movie.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Spitfire grill spoke of how people place labels on individuals because they are different and may not conform to the rules of that a particular society. This was true in Percy's case, a former inmate.  Because of the narrow-mind set in this homogenous  town where Percy choose to live, she is cast as the  outsider who by the town's standard will never fit in, in a town who does not want change, because this means that  they would have to change their way of thinking and  accept others for who they are, and not for who they  should be. Percy teaches the town a lesson in dignity and teaches others that they too have a voice and can stand up for something they believe in. Unfortunately  Percy dies before the town realizes the great impact/influence she actually had on them.    "},{"Title":"The type of film best watched on a calm, summer evening.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first watched it because a friend claimed it as a great movie.  Taking his word for it, I was quickly pleased.  A somewhat different twist on the whole ex-con tries new lifestyle story, the characters not insanely unique, but definitely individualized welcome you into the situation.  A young lady, Percy, moves to a small country town. At first she is questioned, but after realizing her good nature, the townsfolk accept her.  As the plot progresses, trouble arises as she comes to confront her past and accusations are made.  Will her new friends that she has grown to love and trust help her out? "},{"Title":"The essay contest was stroke of genius!!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you're reading these comments on The Spitfire Grill, one of the things that has been overlooked so far is the contribution that this movie made to American capitalism in the fall of 1996.  In the middle of the movie, Percy Talbot proposes an essay contest to raise funds for the diner.  The essay should be entitled Why I should be the owner of the Spitfire Grill.  There was an entrance fee, and the winner would claim ownership of the diner, while the owner of the diner (Ellen Burstyn) would just keep all of the money from the contestants.  If the number of entries was under a certain pre-determined amount, all of the money was supposed to be refunded.  I don't know if this was an original idea by the screen-writer, but it was absolutely brilliant.  Sortly after this film was released in September 1996, I couldn't turn on my radio without hearing some news report about a business owner trying to sell something by copy-catting this idea of an essay contest.  I'm not exaggerating, EVERY FIVE MINUTES there was some breaking report; and it lasted for about a week, until the idea got saturated.  But now that it's been a few years, and the film has disappeared from a lot of people's memories, I'm thinking I just might sponsor an essay contest if I ever have to sell my broken-down Toyota Tercel.  This goes to show that The Spitfire Grill was a word-of-mouth kind of sleeper hit, because it sure as heck didn't get any vocal support from film critics.  To listen to the reviews before the film hit theatres, you would think that it was the second coming of Ishtar, with a little Birth of a Nation thrown in. "},{"Title":"Best film ever (no, really)","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is definitely my favourite film of all time. This is as surprising to me as it is to anyone else! Although I was expecting it to be good it surpassed all my expectations. Even more unusual when you consider that I am not a girl and my favourite directors include David Lynch and Lindsay Anderson.The characterisation and acting are truly brilliant the characters are almost like real people. The plot is minimalist and perhaps a bit slow, but this is one of the strengths of the film. To the extent that there is a plot, it grows naturally from the characters, rather than the characters and dialogue being driven by an artificial plot. Apart from that, the film largely defies analysis it makes you feel rather than making you think, so just enjoy it. And this seems to be a standard comment by people who like it, but it DOES make me cry (even more than the end of Ride The High Country!)... "},{"Title":"A real winner","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is a reason why this movie won the audience award at the Sundance Film Festival...it is a beautiful story of redemption.  Percy is an ex-convict trying to make a new start at the Spitfire Grill in Gilead, Maine ( real location).  She meets some small-minded small-town folks who just won't give her a chance.  The scenery is lovely, the music by James Horner is hauntingly beautiful and the cast (played by Allison Elliot, Ellen Burstyn, Marcia Gay Harnden and Will Patton) is superb.  This is a movie that will touch you and one that you will not be able to forget.  Be sure to watch it with a box of tissues next to you-- you'll need it.  "},{"Title":"Superb Sleeper of the YEAR!!! HIGHLY underrated!","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Superb drama with an excellent plot using simplicity and feeling instead of HYPE and GREENBACKS like so much of the garbage out there these days. FIVE stars for sure. "},{"Title":"Burstyn's performance outweighs a lackluster script and ending","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  That really says it in a nutshell.  The scenery and small-town vignettes are sweet in their own way but this movie really just affirms that some stars just can't make a bad movie.  True, the accents in most of the characters (not all) are badly flawed.One major goof -- SPOILER AHEAD -- and I would've submitted this in the Goofs section but it's empty right now and apparently you can't add to an empty category  Toward the end when a character dies a horrible death by falling through several hundred feet of rapids and waterfalls, we see a shot of the character's lifeless body.  Anyone else who died in this violent manner would be bruised and bloodied, if not dismembered, by the ordeal, but there's not a scratch on this person's face.  Ahem.  "},{"Title":"Magnificent film","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This overlooked jewel of a film got lost under the flurry of articles debating whether it was worth the enormous price paid for it at Sundance when it was released in '96.  People were so anxious to debate its merits in terms of dollars that the public seemed to think it was being manipulated, and stayed away.  In my opinion, this is a crime.  This film is made up of small miracles, each complementing the other. A flawless performance from Alison Elliot  shines like a small gem from the gorgeously filmed landscape of Gilead, Maine.  Ellen Burstyn and the ever-wonderful Will Patton come close to perfection as they flesh out characters slightly underwritten, but the real discovery here is the perfectly attenuated portrayal of Shelby by Marcia Gay Harden that really makes this film as close to heaven on earth as you can get.  I begin crying one hour and five minutes in, and don't stop until the movie's credits roll.  Exquisite. "},{"Title":"Demonstrates the impact each of has on the lives of all we know.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The fact that there are no box office icons in this film leads me to believe that this could be a diamond in the rough Fargo or a complete flop.  Viewed with no expectations, the film is warmly satisfying.  The story is very well presented and the characters are very believable. Worth seeing, and worth seeing again. "}{"Title":"It's what you make of it.","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Spitfire Grill is a touching film.   A young woman ex-con who has through her time in prison gained a through knowledge of the state of Maine, chooses the small town of Gilead to start life anew after her parole. Anyone feeling that the suspiciousness of the townfolk is exaggerated has not lived in a small town. The comment from one patron of the diner that Hanna knows what I'm havin'  Is just the kind of small town put-down a stranger could expect. Gailard Sartain is very good as the sheriff, Gary.  Once you get past remembering him in overalls from HEE HAW he really is good.Elyn Burstyn is crotchety and with reason.  She lost her son. Eli, to the Vietnam war.  Her nephew Neham was always in Eli's shadow....a new person with new ideas might push him back into the shadows again.  ( an number of people in the town have Biblical names)Marcia Gay Harden is wonderful as the Neham's wife Shelby.Alison Elliott plays the character, Percy, understated.   She comes into town to begin life anew.  Making now apologies for her past and hoping only to create a brighter future.  Something her mother, we later learn, refused to give her.As the story unfolds secrets are revealed.  Some dark and horrible, some just sad.  George Lucas was asked once why the second Star Wars movie got less second time viewers than the other two....his answer  at the end the bad guys had won.  In the  this movie doesn't offer perfect salvation for the characters who desperately need it but there is an uplifting final scene.Some of the plot turns are obvious and expected some are not. In the end it truly is a movie about MOTHERHOOD on several levels.  AND the lengths that mothers will go to to protect her child.WHO SHOULD SEE IT?    Spitfire Grill is rated PG-13 for some language and a death scene. There is no nudity or sexual content. You could EASILY watch if with your entire family.  If you are hard hearted it's not for you.  If you could watch Titanic and feel NO emotion pass this one by.  "},{"Title":"Sad, but optimistic","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the most amazing films I've ever seen. Sad, but not pessimistic. The story means much more than people can see. While it is such a profound tale that I cannot tell all the meanings of it, I will still try to describe what I think, and how I feel about this movie.I was deeply moved when I watched the whole thing. Alison Elliott was brilliant, with that strange accent, and her performance in this film was utterly different from Wings of the Doves. Marcia Gay Harden was remarkable, especially playing a role that was very different from the ones she usually played.In this film I've found an interesting combination apart from Shelby (Marcia Gay Harden), who was married with two daughters, there were three other mothers- Percy (Alison Elliott) was the mother of her unborn child Johnny B., Hannah (Ellen Burstyn) was the mother of Eli, an withdrawn who lived in the mountain alone for years and whom everybody else thought was missing.  And Clare was the mother of her new born baby boy Charlie. Suddenly I realized that this was a story about motherhood, simply check out the last lines near the ending and you'll know what I mean.Percy's arrival and death became the salvation of the town and changed the people's hostile attitude toward strangers.I think maybe Lee David Zlotoff (the writer and the director) intended to write a perfect play, maybe this story was based on or inspired by real life experiences. The film feels rather surreal to me, but it is still a great piece of work. "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing More Than Once (7/10)","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Seldom does a movie tell such an innocuous and modest story in such a heartfelt way, yet The Spitfire Grill is just such a movie. Originally released in August of 1996, it was a Sundance Film Festival award winner and gave us a taste of the rich talent and depth of newcomer Alison Elliot.Percy Talbott (Alison Elliot) has just finished a five-year prison sentence from Windham for manslaughter, and is released into the custody of the local sheriff of Gilead, Maine... a small town that she chose to begin a new life, forget the past, and to heal deep personal wounds. The sheriff calls upon the good graces of the town's matriarch, Hannah Furguson (Ellen Burstyn), a hard and spirited older woman who runs the local restaurant, The Spitfire Grill. Her hip is bad, and after losing her last waitress the past winter, she could use the help, the sheriff bargains. Not to mention the fact that she just happens to have a spare bedroom above the restaurant. She grudgingly agrees, and Percy is soon beginning her new life.With her equally spirited nature and sharp wit, she works hard to assert herself as an individual and as a member of the gossip-fueled township of Gilead. One of the more memorable lines from the movie, for me, comes when she is just starting out waiting tables in the restaurant. And what can I bring for you? she asks a burly old man. He says, I dunno's as to what I'm havin'. She looks at him for a second and, without missing a beat, she replies, That one's been real popular today. You gonna want coffee with that?But Hannah has an accident, her hip having a spasm while she's standing on a chair, and she is temporarily incapacitated. A timid and soft spoken Shelby Goddard (Marcia Hay Harden) begins working in the Spitfire Grill to help out, and very soon we see a strong bond growing between the three of them. Percy finds herself becoming accepted, Hannah finds herself softening up, and Shelby develops a stronger voice and learns how to assert herself by absorbing the strength and fiery spirit between her now two closest friends. Always having been the central hub of the small town of Gilead, the Spitfire Grill begins to take on a whole new dimension as her devoted patrons start to sense a more passionate atmosphere coming from the kitchen, and gossip soars.But not everyone is happy about it. Shelby's dominating and controlling husband, Nahum Goddard (Will Patton) has always needed to be the town's hero and center of attention, and his manipulative temper flares back up again when he notices the town's focus has turned toward the Spitfire Grill, and especially the mysterious new young woman. When Percy comes up with a successful plan to help Hannah sell the restaurant -- something Nahum hasn't been able to do for Hannah over the last ten years -- he finally has enough. This has made an embarrassment out of him, he feels, and he also blames Percy for his wife's standing up against him. He sets the wheels into motion for getting rid of her once and for all, so he can return to being the hero and center of attention. And suddenly the small, unknown backwoods town no longer seems the safe haven for healing and building a new life that Percy thought it could have been. I thought in some place small like this there might just be a chance, you know? But after what I done, it don't matter where I go.The story is modest but tender and heartfelt, and there is enough of all the right elements to keep you riveted to the very end. The movie feels neither too long nor too short. A stellar performance is put on by every actor throughout the movie, plus an exceptional and convincing performance from newcomer Alison Elliot. You can't help but buy into the story. Cranky critics can say what they will about the plot, but everyone agrees that the acting is award winning. Along with some very artistic cinematography, this largely missed must see is backed by a flawless and captivating musical score from the legendary James Horner (Braveheart, Titanic), adding sentimental punch to the already remarkable performance. I give this movie an easy 7 out of 10 stars, and enthusiastically recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"A beautifully touching movie.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a wonderful example of how character and plot come together. You get the sense that all the characters have lives that happen even when you aren't watching.  A few rather contrived plot points don't mar a good story.  A good movie, well worth the time.  Have some tissues handy. "},{"Title":"Their heart was in the right place, but....","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The makers of this film had good intentions, but what they came up with was a poorly written and acted piece of sentimentalism.  I've lived in Vermont and Maine for most of my life and I've never experienced a small New England town as nasty and suspicious as this one.  This, combined with a general indecision on what accent to speak with, created a background for the story that I never found believable.As the movie progressed I liked the central character more and more. However, this momentum was quickly cut into by the two dimensional characters she was surrounded by.  The film came off as a well shot made-for-TV movie.  What a disappointment. "},{"Title":"All around fabulous movie.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am unable to understand why this film has gotten some of the poor reviews that it has.  Perhaps it would be best to give an idea of what films are being used for comparison.  This movie is leagues better than the ones spewing forth from Hollywood every year; in fact, taking into account all the movies I have ever seen, I would rate it amongst the best--at least in the top 2%.  However, this is not the best movie ever made; if you choose to compare it to Casablanca, or Bridge on the River Kwai, then I admit that it will fall short.  But by no means should you avoid the movie simply because it cannot meet that unreachable standard.Overall, I would give it a 9.9/10 when judged against all movies, and perhaps a 6.5/10 when judged against my absolute favorites.  This is definitely a film that needs to be seen.-antares "},{"Title":"A film that you will remember!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have been a fan of Indy films for some years now, I saw this one in Dallas in 96, Last night I watched it twice on TBS,Don't know why, but I would put this film in the top 20 I have seen in the last few years. "},{"Title":"Proof that small town attitudes can change.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A wonderful touching movie about a stranger in the midst of a small town. The residents learn to accept people as they are and learn to accept the past. One of my most favorite movies, it is exactly what a good movie should be about, how people react and deal with each other, change and mystery. Compared to many of the 'big' titles out there, this movie is miles ahead, a superlative movie! "},{"Title":"Excellent 4 Stars!!!","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Spitfire Grill is the greatest movie I've ever seen.  Alision Elliot warmed my heart with her portrayal of Percy Talbot. It's a real winner! "},{"Title":"A Top 10 Film of 1996","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Spitfire Grill is, in my opinion, one of the best film of all time. I am very disappointed that it didn't win the Academy Award for best picture. Much less even get a nomination because this film is truely better than The English Patient. It also deserved nominations for Best Actress, Best Supporting Actress, Best Screenplay, Best Cinematography, and Best Art/Set Decoration. Everyone should see this film it is extremely outstanding.My Score 9.8/10 "}{"Title":"A female ex-con tries to live a normal life in a small country town.","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Two thumbs up to the writer of this wonderful movie, Lee David Zlotoff, who  did a magnificent job to bring this movie to the level of a touching and  moving drama.  All the characters (an actors) are quite believable, and the  plot advances in a not-too-fast way; we have enough time to get acquainted  personally with every character and see them evolve. "},{"Title":"A bittersweet look at small-town life and the vagaries of doing good","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I rated this movie 5/10 only because I truly hate the ending. Is the author saying Percy HAD to die to redeem everyone else? If so, that really stinks. God knows what her life was life before she took her tormentor out. AND after. Reminds me of A Tree Grows In Brooklyn. The mother killed the man who raped her daughter, but after awhile all that anyone seems to remember is that she was convicted of murder. And then there's Mystic River, wherein Tim Robbins' character was molested as a young boy by two priests, barely escapes with his life, such things were not discussed at that time, he lived with his pain, and then is taken out, and his murderer justifies the unfortunate wrongful murder, but we're left hanging as to any justice occurring, whatsoever.Also, I cannot abide Will Patton, in anything I've seen him in. Otherwise, I think the movie was pretty extraordinary, and I wish I'd walked out of the theater before the ending. If the author ever reads these reviews, I do wish he would explain the ending.Thank you for listening. "},{"Title":"About LOVE, SUFFERING, HONESTY, and MEN...","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was written and directed by a MAN, Lee David Zlotoff, whose only other major film contribution was creating the MacGyver TV series. How could such a MAN convey the deep sensitivity in 'Spitfire Grill'? Percy's boyfriend, the sheriff, and Ely all are portrayed as sensitive and caring MEN.  Isn't it strange that some of the MALE film critics could not feel this film with their hearts?As a MAN, director-writer Zlotoff was honest enough to show the faults of MEN, and woman as well. Tremendous care and perception was needed to successfully convey the multi-layered messages in this film. Not only did Zlotoff  do justice to MEN, but to women as well. The themes of Love, Suffering, and the Truth were all superbly enacted.Bravo !  "},{"Title":"More palatable than Fried Green Tomatoes ...","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A bunch of really fine actors dealing with a cliche-rich, hackneyed, often-contrived script directed without a hint of irony or humor. The last half hour especially challenged me to like this film, but overall, I enjoyed it. We've seen this before, though this time around's better than average. Again, the performances (particularly Alison Elliott's) deserve much praise, but director Zlotoff should try to put his MacGyver days further behind him.  "},{"Title":"So what's wrong with sentimental, Roger??","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Spitfire Grill tells of the influence of one young woman (Elliott) on the people of a small town in Maine. A multifaceted, soapy, and unabashed chick-flick, this critically panned audience pleaser is sentimental almost to a fault. From its sepia tinged warmth to its Norman Rockwell stereotypes to it's plaintive orchestral score to its contrived storyline, etc., this flick is out to tug at your heart strings and jerk that tear from your eye. Sentimentalists should kick back, turn off brain, and enjoy. All others, find something else to watch. "},{"Title":"very light touch and yet heavy melodrama","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Newly released prisoner Percy (Alison Elliott) comes to the small town of Gillead, Maine. She was imprisoned 5 years for manslaughter. Sheriff Walsh directs her to the Spitfire Grill. Elderly owner Hannah Ferguson (Ellen Burstyn) recently lost her waitress. She's given a job and a place to live. Hannah's nephew Nahum Goddard (Will Patton) is suspicious. Joe Sperling takes a liking to the newcomer. After Hannah suffers a bad fall, Percy and Nahum's kind-hearted wife Shelby (Marcia Gay Harden) start running the grill. There's a mysterious local hermit and a tree scientist. Percy organizes an essay contest with an entry fee to sell the grill with the help of her former prison mates. Hannah gets tired of the townfolks' sarcasm and gives them the essays to read.The drama and the characters are done with a very light touch. I like the characters but it's too easy going. There is no tension until the last act. Alison Elliott is pretty and does a good job. I think Joe needs to be a bigger character played by a more charismatic actor. It gets a bit hokey. The townfolks are too monotone. It tries too hard to be fanciful or fails to be fanciful enough. It also needs to advance Percy's character more in the first half. Nahum and Shelby have a better character arc. This is an interesting story about tolerance and salvation but it's done without any tension rising to a super high soaring melodramatic ending. The tearjerker ending feels too manipulative. "},{"Title":"Made for TV","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My sidekick gave it a 2, I give it a 3, we both agree it's made for TV and belongs on Lifetime or Hallmark. Fine for burning a few hours on the couch on Sunday, but not a good movie. The script is evidence of the thousands of movies that came before this one and the fact that the writer and producer had to somehow come up with something new enough to get the project funded. So the plot is rather cockamamie, forced, and silly soapy. While there are necessary unexpected twists and turns, the predictability came in the form knowing exactly when the writer was forced to add a new twist, and our uh-huh, sure, yeah right reaction each time. Struck us as overwritten and overacted, with bad music and bad attempts at Maine accents. Interesting to see the 1996 version of Marcia Gay Harden, and Ellen Burstyn is a name, however I'm sure they'd agree this is not their best work. Not terrible if you have absolutely nothing to do, but go find something to do. "},{"Title":"Male or Female, that is the only question you need ask","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let me make it simple for everyone...If you are a woman (especially if you happen to currently be menstruating) you will positively adore this movie. Just sit back with a glass of zinfandel and a box of tissues and enjoy. It is heavy-handed melodrama and cliché 'character' acting by all the usual female stereotypes but sometimes that isn't always a bad thing. I realize that this probably sounds condescending and insensitive so in advance let me apologize and recognize that everything I say is wrong anyway.If you are a dude on the other hand I hope and pray for you that you have a 2nd TV located in another room, preferably hooked up to a PS3 or XBOX so that you can properly recalibrate your testosterone level after watching the first 20 mins of this train wreck. It has absolutely nothing of interest to you, trust me. You know that feeling you get when you're alone in a room of women all talking at the same time and you can't leave? Now imagine an hour and a half of that with no respite, every time you think it cannot possibly go any further down the rabbit hole of I do not give a f$*k it somehow manages to kick it up a notch.As an aside, I was born and raised in the Northeast and the vast majority of 'Maine' accents in this film are about on par with the 'British' accents of Natalie Portman and Keanu Reeves, its pretty damn bad.Personally I think the average woman would give this 8-9 stars and the average guy would give it 1 or 2 so in all fairness I'm splitting the difference, we're it just up to me I'd give it either 1 or 0. "},{"Title":"Corny vapid tearjerker","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  From Burstyn's crusty loveable codger, Elliott's trailer-trash-with- heart-of-gold, and Harden's doormat housewife who grows (sort of) a backbone, wooden one-dimensional performances by all contrive to make this film an elementary exercise in pushing emotional buttons.  Huge plot holes contribute to its sappy emptiness.  At the end, you left only with a soiled hanky and a vague wonderment as to why you cared. "},{"Title":"Unrelentingly smaltzy","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When Percy is released from prison, she moves to a small town, Gillead, to get a fresh start.  Taking up a job as waitress at the Spitfire Grill, she gradually wins the people over, particularly the grill's elderly owner Hannah.  As Percy becomes closer to the town she learns about many secrets and makes many friends, however Nahum Goddard still suspects her motives and resents her friendship with his wife.The plot synopsis sounded interesting if not totally promising and I decided to give it a try.  Sadly the film is so trapped in a syrup of it's own making that, even when it tries to get dramatic near the end it is far too sentimental to get anywhere near being dramatic.  The film has an overly sweet view of small town America that is almost impossible to get past. It could have been touching, I agree, but as it is the film just totally blows it by miring itself in sentimentality.  The plot is brave at points but never lets this syrup go - and it suffers greatly as a result.The script is corny and full of dialogue that never really sounds like something that real people would ever say.  The characters that grow out of this dialogue are about as obvious and lacking in subtly as you can imagine. The cast try hard but the dialogue is absurdly sweet that it takes away greatly from their performances.  Elliott is really good but her character is so unreal that it takes away all her good work.  She is far too sweet, like this angel sent into the small town.  Harden is awful, pushing her accent at the cost of her performance; only in two short scenes did I feel like she did a good job.  Burstyn comes out with a lot of credit and is very good despite her lines.  She does play the atypical `grouchy old woman' role reasonably well despite the clichés that drip from her every scene.Overall this film has a basic little story that holds no surprises for the majority of the film - few will be surprised to learn that Percy's initial cold reception quite quickly turns around to a warmer welcome.  It had potential and could have been played well for emotion, as it is it aims for sentimentality and lets the syrup infect everything from the score, the cinematography, the script, the characters, the performances right down to the plot device of the essay contest.  Surprisingly average little film but OK if you can accept the syrup. "}{"Title":"Over-hyped","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was allegedly a critical success but in reality it's a plodding, overwrought film that never really gets going.The characters are shallow and the alleged protagonist is a Mary Sue. While I was led to believe that the film would be a wonderful account of people and complexities of relationships all I saw was bad writing and worse acting.While the written version and Biblical allegories of forgiveness and healing may work, this theatrical version misses the mark. I suppose if you have a pariah complex you can relate to this movie but for everyone else it's a waste of time. "},{"Title":"A Great Start, But a Really Poor Ending","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I missed Spitfire Grill when it was out in the theaters, though it got wildly enthusiastic comments from viewers as diverse as my daughter and my mother. So I rented it and really enjoyed the first half of the film. It's the sort of movie with almost no surprises, but some of the details are a hoot, especially the location of the Maine Travel Bureau operators.We're introduced to a very young prison inmate named Percy, played by the remarkable Allison Elliott. She's extremely creative and an eager learner, but clearly a person without much education and a rough past. Upon her release she's sent to a small town in what's supposed to be rural Maine. She goes to work for Hannah, the owner of the Spitfire Grill.The townspeople are a series of horrific cliches, being so small-minded they hardly even talk to the young woman, even to the point of not ordering their meals from her in the grill. This ludicrous behavior does go away pretty fast, so most of the first half of the movie or so deals with Percy trying to adjust to life outside, with Hannah adjusting to Percy and yet another debilitating injury and with Shelby who comes to help them both. And the first half of the movie or so is very pleasant and reasonably-true-to-life, almost like a small British movie.The script is interesting in that parts of it don't insult the viewer's intelligence. Some things happen in the background that later become very important in the film, but the writer doesn't feel the need to batter the viewer over the head with them. So I felt the script had lots of potential, at least in the first half.There are a few problems with the movie overall, and they probably never bothered the average viewer, but, being a New Englander, they bothered me. The movie is supposed to be set up in rural, central Maine, somewhere near Lewiston or Bethel. However, that area tends to be filled with forests and lakes, and I don't remember so much of it having been cleared for farms. It was actually filmed in northeastern Vermont, probably because rural Maine is just too remote. So you get some beautiful shots of Vermont countryside, and a particularly sweeping shot of Lake Willoughby gap (where one large mountain became two smaller ones back during the last ice age) in the distance. Similarly, the accents of almost everyone in the movie is likewise grafted on. Just like rural Vermont and rural Maine look different, an upstate Maine resident doesn't have the identical speech patterns of an upstate Vermonter. Its the sort of thing that it's better to just let the folks speak without any accent at all than to force them to sound so unnatural.But these are kind of minor things that no one noticed. The acting, especially of the women in this picture, is quite good, so there's plenty to hold your interest. However, what surprises me is that no one ever mentioned the gross misogyny that permeates almost every frame of the last third of this film. The Catholic Church, a major financier of this film, has shown once again how much it really has a major problem with how it treats women. I remember hearing a church representative talk about how life-affirming this movie is. Hardly. The movie goes absolutely out of its way to promote the woman as martyr image.Lots of spoilers follow.++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++The first hint of the kind of sick direction this movie was going take was in Percy's reaction to a man named Joe. Joe took a shine to her and asks her out, takes her for walks, etc. Percy seems to like him, but doesn't want to get too close. Finally, Joe asks her to marry him. She turns him down because he wants children and she can't have them. He says he doesn't care about that, but she's adamant.Hannah is very bitter about her son who went to Viet Nam and didn't come back. Well, at least on the surface. It's clear her son went AWOL and is hiding and its Hannah's insufferable pride and the small town memories of her husband's valor in WW II that helps keep her son away from the help he so obviously needs. He's kind of a Bo-Radleyesque character, but this is the '90s not the '30s so keeping the son a secret just seems wrong.And then there's Nahum, Shelby's husband and Hannah's nephew. He's a quietly viscious man who is nasty to Shelby and to Percy. He's supposed to have redeemed himself at the end of the movie by owning up to one terrible wrong he committed, but the scene was just terribly awkward.And there's the situation that landed Percy in prison. Near the end of the movie, she tells Shelby her story. She was sexually abused by her stepfather and made pregnant by him she she was 16. Since this movie was financed by the Catholic Church, she, naturally, loves the baby of the man who raped her, and is devastated when he beats her so badly that she loses the baby and her ability to ever have children again. She is kidnapped out of the hospital by this man and kills him in self defense. You have to ask yourself what kind of incompetent lawyer did she have, that landed her in jail for even 30 seconds much less five years for manslaughter.As you might have guessed by now, Percy dies by the end of the movie in trying to warn the AWOL son that the police are trying to find him because they think she gave him money she stole from Hannah. And the lesson the town learns is to be nice to strange women who come to Gilead to attempt to have a new start at life.This picture could have been life-affirming if only it hadn't sunk to so much misogyny and melodrama. It's not so obvious as those movie that promote violence against women, but it's almost more insidious.  "},{"Title":"A noble effort...","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great idea, very poor execution for The Spitfire Grill.  They did the research on the area and the accents (even though it was filmed in Vermont), then dropped the ball when it came to a believable script and dialogue.  I enjoyed Marcia Gay Harden's performance the most, even though she didn't have the best material to work with.  Burstyn was also good.  I was amused by the character of the sheriff, who in these films is either a redneck or dishonest jerk or the voice of reason.In sum, a 5 of 10, particularly because they do a poor job of development with the lead character, who seems to make the transition to civilian life too easily. "},{"Title":"Burstyn's worth a look, but artificiality grills what's left over...","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pure corn. A female ex-con in a small community in Maine gets waitressing job at the local diner, enlightening everyone there with her presence. Resolutely old-fashioned hokum is replete with pseudo-meaningful platitudes and female bonding (with divergent accents). Acquired at the Sundance Film Festival for what was reported to be a princely sum, Castle Rock barely distributed this after the reviews came in (they were probably hoping for another Fried Green Tomatoes but got rotten tomatoes instead). Trifling nonsense tries for a prestigious look, but even this fails as the moody ambiance resembles nothing more than encroaching mold. It at least gave work to Ellen Burstyn, whose professionalism and mere presence saves this from oblivion. Otherwise, a prime candidate for Lifetime's four a.m. movie. * from **** "},{"Title":"I was left with an empty feeling.","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie immensely. But, I could not help feeling just a little lost at the end because it seemed the town had quickly forgotten Percy and how she died trying to save Eli. There was no mention of her name during the final scene and no kind of memorial to her love and unselfishness. Although the winner of the raffle had an Appalachian accent as did Percy, it wasn't enough. I just wish the ending could have been a little more satisfying. "},{"Title":"In Which a Woman is Saved by Being So Darn Plucky n Cute!!","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the kind of totally misogynistic movie that does such an excellent job of masquerading as a movie about female empowerment that it fools all but the most discerning types.There would be nothing wrong with that, except that it lulls us all into a false state of comfort. Police will always be kind, gentle folk, escaped convicts will always be 'really good' at heart, and a woman can be rescued from the worst types of spiritual and emotional pain by the 'power of the penis'. If only, right?Wrong. The world is not like that. In this world we all live in, police rape young homeless woman wandering around on their own as often as they help them out. Women who have been convicted of felonies rarely get second chances, regardless of how generous or good-hearted they happen to be. People are shaped by their circumstances and rarely manage to rise above them, instead dragging everyone else down with them often as not. There are no second chances.Nor should there be. Women who murder ought not to be let off the hook from the ramifications of their actions for good behavior. Policemen ought not do the job of the non-government organizations and social programs which do not exist in the South for all intents and purposes.We ought not be able to work or charm our way out of being who we are.Everyone deserves the opportunity to start again, but part of that process MUST involve some acknowledgment of why things went so badly wrong in the first place. Teaching young girls that all they have to do to improve their lives is to trust the people around them unconditionally to help them out of any scrape they get into is morally bankrupt. Movies like this one do a terrible job of preparing young girls for the world they will actually be entering upon adulthood.It does a terrible job of describing the world they exist in now.We need to learn how to be less sweet and giving, rather than more so.Women are taught to be caring at the cost of everything we love about our lives and ourselves. Because we are so open-hearted, we are easily taken advantage of in our naivete. We need movie heroines who encourage us to be MORE wary, more suspicious of who we place our trust in, rather than less. We need heroines willing to stand on their own two feet and to work to accomplish their own dreams, rather than to fight for the dreams of those around them without a thought for themselves.In real life, this kind of goodness is boring...it is scrappiness, it is the willingness to stand one's ground and to fight for one's right to exist at all costs, that makes a life entertaining to watch and live.Instead, what this movie does is make us resent the people around us for achieving less than the perfection that the main characters of this movie achieve. We also hate ourselves for being less than wholly sweet.No man will ever solve all a woman's problems for her. No woman can work her way into redemption by serving the people around her rather than serving herself. There is no opportunity for healing without pride.No one can work themselves out of a pit of despair without honesty.May I live to see the day when movies all represent heroines of reality, rather than of male fantasies of what a 'real woman' should be. "},{"Title":"Pitiful","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  Sentimental  tripe that tries to pull tears out of unsuspecting moviegoers with every trick in the Hollywood book.  Please I would like a littlle more respect as the audience...let me draw my own conclusions, instead of bludgeoning me with trite sentimentality.  An insult to my own judgement, morals, and intelligence. "},{"Title":"I beg to differ......","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to be the turd in the punchbowl and offer an opinion contrary to the raves this movie seems to get. Everything about this movie is phony, from the laughable 'down-East' accents, to the totally unbelievable and unlikeable characters. The movie is full of 'dark secrets' that one really doesn't care to find out about, and plot contrivances right out of a cheap television melodrama. I fell asleep before the end and didn't bother rewinding to find out the ending because frankly I didn't care.  "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE!!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie does more to kill theater than John Wilkes Booth.  It was one of the worst movies I have ever seen!  The plot goes nowhere and then the movies stops, not ends, but stops.  They should gather up all the copies of this movie and burn them so no one ever again has to view it. "}]