[{"Title":"Yo ho ho and a bottle of...fun!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although this film has taken quite a beating since its release, I fail to understand why.  The songs are catchy, the script is hilarious, and the performances are stellar.Let's start with the music.  Whether it's the wonderfully fun Cabin Fever, the touching Love Led Us Here, or another one of the wide array of tunes, nobody can say that they are inferior to any other Muppets melodies.The script is full of one liners and clever dialogue that never grows old, delivered by a cast and vocal talents who are incredibly talented.  Tim Curry, sinister and wonderful as ever, plays Long John Silver to perfection. Billy Connolly is also worth mentioning, despite his brief appearance in the film.  And young Jim Hawkins is just as he should be, albeit surrounded by a crew of muppet pirates.This is my favorite Muppet film, and I think everybody should give it a try and embrace a different sort of humor-filled extravaganza.  "},{"Title":"CABIN FEVER! AHHHHH!","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Awsome Muppet Adventure. I don't care how many people hate this movie, I still think it's smart, funny, and amazing. The muppets still have it. Though I agree by most by saying it's not the best Muppet movie, it sure beats the hell outta The great muppet caper (How slow was that movie?!). Tim Curry, the greatest and most under rated musical preformer alive, is at his element here. The music is awsome and his one song (Upstage Lads, this is me only number!) is awsome. This is a good movie. For a pirate movie, and a muppet movie. "},{"Title":"I positively adore this movie","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes when you watch a movie you get the feeling that the cast and crew had a fantastic time making it, which makes the movie even better.  I got that feeling during Muppet Treasure Island, and as a result it is one of my favorite movies. I thoroughly enjoyed Kevin Bishop's (Jim Hawkins) performance since I usually find young/child actors to be very grating, that's saying something. The Muppets were, as usual, all very funny.  The jokes and asides were too, too funny (like Gonzo finding Henry Kissinger's book Diplomacy' in Captain Billy Bones' trunk), the songs were fun and catchy, and the pace was brisk and exciting.  Tim Curry looked like he was having the time of his life playing Long John Silver amidst a sea of Muppets.  I had great fun watching his performance. Go watch this movie if there's even a spark of kid in you.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"One of the two best Muppet movies","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow. Seems like people fall totally on one side or the other when considering this movie.All I can say is that this is my favourite Muppet film (I'm in my 30's). It even edges out the Muppet Movie (just barely). I've found every other film to be annoying and forgettable, but not this one.I've watched it about 30 or 40 times (the joy of having a young child who is hooked on one show -)I don't get tired of it. Fun songs, Tim Curry is enough to watch the film anyway, good plot.Where else will you hear a name like 'big fat baby-eating O'Brian' ??? "},{"Title":"The best Muppet movie yet.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Muppet Treasure Island relies heavily on incongruity, and the contrast between the Muppet world and reality. The directing and music are pure swashbuckler -- the opening sequence is brilliant, with a dark pirate song with sprinklings of straight-faced jest, setting the mood for the film.Many of the gags are cheap shots -- roll is called for Old Tom, Real Old Tom, and Dead Tom, along with Headless Bill (yes, he's headless) and Big Fat Ugly Bug-Faced Baby-Eating O'Brien (a Geena Davis look-alike who barks Aye in a rough bass). Others are character humor, such as the exchange in which Rizzo laments that they are captured by crazed wild pigs and about to be sacrificed hideously on a pagan altar, to which Gonzo breathlessly adds, Are we lucky or what?! Anachronisms abound, such as when Miss Piggy reflects on her dalliances with the murderous Captain Flint and her most recent beau, Long John Silver, who has tied her by the feet and left her dangling at the edge of a cliff. You know, she muses, I'm beginning to see a pattern in the men I date. A Greek chorus of tourist rats adds a surrealistic touch of The Love Boat.For all the silliness, characters are still able to develop. Jim's love for Long John Silver is real, and the betrayal cuts to the quick. Their parting scene is heart rending but not overdone. Jim simply chokes out, Now take your oars and row away. I don't want to see you again, ever.Brian Henson has done his father proud. "},{"Title":"","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Muppets, we just got to love them !Unfortunely, the same can´t be said about many of their movie adventures. Most of them were nothing more than a parade of has been actors and ex-television stars, mixed with a couple of Muppet jokes, singing moments and uninteresting plots. Somehow the idea of mixing the Muppets with real locations and images never worked that great, and so. to me at least, most of the movies got always to a point when i was just bored of watching them. I always found them a bit too long.  Even when i was a kid i thought like that.I still love the Muppets on tv, that backstage setting was a brilliant creation and the perfect home to those characters and situations. Even the new television series are good. So i always wished for some good movies with the Muppets, but that never seemed to happen.Untill a couple of years ago, a new one came out. That Christmas one, about the classical story of the Ghosts of Christmas Past and the old Scrooge. This movie restored my faith on the Muppets. I loved it, and this time i thought it was too small. I wanted more !  And i loved that cute sad little bunny  hero !Anyway, then i bought this new one, MUPPETS TREASURE ISLAND, and i think it´s an absolute masterpiece, on what  Muppets are concerned.All the problems the other movies had are gone, and this finaly looks like a great Muppets movie. No more dull scenes, no more boring guests,  now it´s got a great storytelling rithm and the perfect pace of a real movie.Funny story, great gags particulary the ones with the rats, fantastic landscapes and scenery, cool songs, and good special effects. It even has Tim Curry in it and a great actor always come in handy. No one  plays a fun villain like him. Oh, and it has Miss Piggy, of course. (Sorry Miss, it won´t happen again i almost forgot about you... SPLAP ! Ouch !....) -)So im glad this movie was made, and i can´t wait to see the next one.So to all of you who think the Muppet movieas are boring to follow, go and see this and forever change your mind. And you so called cool guys, let go of that macho crap atitude, and don´t be afraid to watch a movie filled with puppets. Don´t worry, this is nothing like Sesame Street. (thank god !)  -)A great family movie if ever there was one. A great movie.I want more ! "},{"Title":"Not Their Best, But Still A Decent Muppet Movie","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I keep thinking these Muppet Movies are going to be just for little kids but I am usually pleasantly surprised that I enjoy most of them, too. In this one, there were a lot of modern-day expressions and referrals to things that only adults would appreciate.Meanwhile, the special-effects with the puppets is the normal high-quality. Actually, this was my first look at a Muppet film, although I've reviewed several others, so I was downright amazed at what I saw. After I had seen others, and then viewed this one again, it wasn't as appealing. It was okay, but I liked a few others better. As I found with subsequent episodes, Rizzo The Rat and The Great Gonzo had the best lines even though Kermit and Miss Piggy have always been the best-known of these puppet characters. I've never been a fan of Miss Piggy so I was glad to see her with a minor role here.Tim Curry played Long John Silver and he was entertaining, as was young Kevin Bishop as Jim Hawkins. The songs were okay not outstanding, but not bad. There weren't that many and they were brief enough not to interrupt the flow of the story. The movie is a little loud the first 20 minutes but settles down after that. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Probably the most underrated movie of the last CENTURY, Muppet Treasure Island is a must see for everyone. Kermit the Frog has a sword fight, for Pete's sake! What fun. The Muppets are hilarious and touching, as usual, the music is catchy, and Kevin Bishop and Tim Curry act and sing beautifully. I especially enjoy the mix of human and Muppet pirates, and the scene with the visually challenged fiend. "},{"Title":"Classic Muppets Fare","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'll admit it, the first time I saw this movie, I wasn't impressed. But as I watched it again, it grew on me. Muppet Treasure Island is a film that grows on you over time. Props go to Tim Curry for his fine job as Long John Silver, and to the entire cast of puppeteers, without who this film would not be possible. The relationship between Silver and Jim is also well-developed, as it is difficult to watch them part at the end. The songs are fun, the ending touching..and of course, humorous! Give this movie another try.   "},{"Title":"Interesting spoof","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Muppet Treasure Island is a funny spoof of the classic story. Tim Curry stands out, and plays the part of Long John Silver very well. Using the Muppets to play the parts of the classic characters makes it all the more fun. Muppet Treasure Island is by far not the best Muppet film ever, but it is good and enjoyable. "}{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie!  It is SO funny!  My sister and I can watch this movie over and over again because it's just more fun each time.  The songs, Muppets, sets, and live acting make this movie a very fun experience for kids, as well as adults.  Tim Curry is a riot as Long John Silver, and Kevin Bishop is an adorable actor with a beautiful singing voice.  Give this movie a chance and you will love it (it comes on Disney at least twice a month!).  "},{"Title":"'No, that's silly. The man who lives in my finger hired the crew'","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't think there's a 'children's' franchise that has more appeal to adults than Jim Henson's Muppets. I liked them as a kid but as an adult I love them. Their humor has so much nuance and clever wit that the jokes and characters get better with age. 'Muppet Treasure Island' might just be my favorite Muppet film and that is a hard thing to truly say because the Muppets have so much re-watch ability. I think what I like here is how sincere the story is while exploiting bizarre Muppet humor. It takes an audacity to adapt Robert Louis Stevenson's classic novel with Kermit and the gang. The movie is a hoot and I laughed a lot here but at the same time there's a great deal of heart and emotion involved. That's what has always been so wonderful about the Muppets and this swashbuckling adventure is no exception.What's so impressive here is how much integrity the original Stevenson story keeps while adapted in Muppet form. There are no cheap laughs at the expense of Long John Silver or Jim Hawkins. They blend seamlessly into the narrative. While Kermit, Fozzie, Piggy and the gang fill the outer cast and provide us with the classic humor, they never take away from the plot. Kermit is especially good as Captain Smollet. He gets some really heavy character motivation no doubt taken from the Stevenson novel and Kermit relays it very well. As do all the other characters. It doesn't feel out of place or thematically schizophrenic when we go from scenes showcasing the menace of Long John Silver to a rip roaring musical number affectionately called 'Cabin Fever'.Tim Curry is brilliant in this film. His interaction with the Muppets is seamless. In some of the lesser Muppet entries the human actors seem to be making fun of the Muppets (Charles Grodin in 'The Great Muppet Caper' is particularly bad'.) Curry treats them like they are real actors. This seems like it should be a no brainer but it is critical for this story here. Curry's band of buccaneer Muppets are actually quite menacing and some of the scarier creatures in a traditional Muppet film because the interaction is so good. The film isn't just an adaptation of 'Treasure Island' all the great Muppet humor and heart is intact and in some instances as funny as ever. Frank Oz's Fozzie Bear steals every scene he is in as Squire Trelawney(well in actuality the half witted son of Squire Trelawney). I particularly love how they use Gonzo and Rizzo in this film. They become Jim's companions on this voyage. Jim Henson always liked to portray the Muppets as dreamers and the excitement these characters relay over this pirate adventure is so in tune with the Muppets. 'Muppet Treasure Island' is not to be missed. It is funny and smart. I'd love to see the Muppets tackle another piece of literature because they really make it come alive in a new way. Highly recommended "},{"Title":"So Good That It's Bad; It Sets The Bar Too High","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What do I mean by that? I mean that this movie is SPECTACULAR. I mean, we've got pirates, Muppets, swordfights, comedy, musicals, and Tim Curry, who steals every single scene he's in.It's more or less the same story we've heard before Jim Hawkins finds a map to the treasure of Captain Flynt and manages to get himself a ship, captain and crew to go look for it. He befriends Tim Curry a.k.a. Long John Silver and after a bout of Cabin Fever explodes into the craziest song ever put on film, they find the island, Long John is torn over his bond with Jim, yadda yadda you know how it goes.But you don't. What makes this my favorite rendition of Treasure Island is the Muppets. Gonzo and Rizzo play co-cabin boys alongside Kevin Bishop as Jim Hawkings, whose singing voice can be a tad annoying at times but helps show how much he needs to treat that Disney Princess Syndrome he suffers from.Disney Princess Syndrome - a common disorder among physically weak Disney leads, the only known treatment for which is a sword fight. Symptoms include 1) Tendency to burst into song about wanting more. 2) Effeminate demeanor. 3) Developing Stockholm Syndrome towards overly charismatic villains. 4) Tendency to get kidnapped and/or locked up.Don't worry, he'd cured by the end of it.The celebrity guests are kept to a bare minimum like with the Muppet Christmas Carol, Billy Connolly and Jennifer Saunders getting bit roles in the beginning as Billy Bones and Ms. Bluberidge at the inn. Tim Curry steals the show as Long John Silver, his performance confirming long-time fans of his that he is, indeed, actually a Muppet. How else could one explain how his obnoxious and over-the-top personality blends so well with the other Muppet characters in the film?Viewer beware you might not be able to watch another Muppet movie after seeing this one. It is the apex of everything glorious about the Muppets, and continues to be my absolute favorite film of all time.And, hey, at LEAST it's better than that recent rendition of rank and rancidness known as Muppets Most Wanted. "},{"Title":"The Worst of the Muppet Movies is Still Pretty Good","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While not nearly as good as The Muppet Movie, The Muppets Take Manhattan, and A Muppet Christmas Carol this movie manages to entertain. I'm glad Brian Henson and Frank Oz are keeping the art of puppetry alive, as well as the magic of the Muppets. Jim Henson would be proud. "},{"Title":"The best pirate movie there ever was","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is simply my favorite Muppet movie. The adaption of this classic story written Robert Louis Stevenson into a Muppet world is, in my opinion, one of the best adaption ever made in the history of Muppet movies.The movie is quite family friendly, but I can say, as an adult, that I enjoyed it immensely. The humor is never dull, and the numerous musical numbers in this movie makes it a pearl in the world of the Muppets.I'd just like to point out Tim Curry's role in this movie. Casting him as Long John Silver just adds to the already sky-high quality. With Tim Curry you get both good acting AND good singing.If you like pirate themed movies, and are not afraid to please your inner child, this movie is most definitely for you! "},{"Title":"Muppets Treasure Island","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Very funny, imaginative interpretation of Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island! From the fabulous opening song with every ominous creature participating, from skulls to alligators, to the hilarious roll call before the ship embarks, where each crew member is identified by a funny name or situation, to the hallucinogenic becalmed fever production in the middle to the touching and adorable song by Kermit and Piggy, Love Led Us Here, as they are hanging over a cliff about to die, to the many double entendres meant to amuse grownups, this is one movie we never get tired of seeing! Tim Curry of Rocky Horror Picture Show plays Long John Silver! I give it 4 stars! "},{"Title":"Best Childhood Memory","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember when I was 5 I picked up this video from the local Video Ezy because I had the game of it (It's actually very good. Hehe, 100 Pieces of Cheese on the Wall!) and my mum said Tim Curry was a good actor (Which is true, I love Scary Movie 2, Rocky Horror Picture Show, Even the Wild Thornberrys isn't half bad!). So we hired it and I watched it.I think we didn't return it for five months.It's such a beautiful movie. I still cry sometimes when I think of the scene where Kermit and Miss Piggy are hanging off the cliff and signing Love Lead us Here. I still know all the lyrics and I haven't seen this movie for over seven years. I've sworn that it will be played at my wedding! It's just so beautiful.It may be hard to find depending on your area (I know I can't find it anymore!) but If you can get your hands on it, its worth a watch. Just make sure you can handle a teary love scene (I don't get teary eyed in movies, but like I said even *thinking* of that scene makes me cry!). Best Muppet Movie made, 2nd is definitely A Muppet Christmas Carol. Also worth a watch.PS If you enjoyed Pirates of the Caribbean, Tim Curry makes a much better pirate than Johnny Depp. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I found this film to be on the lesser end of the Muppet spectrum, but it is above Muppets from space and some other flicks from 96.  The plot of course takes from Stevenson's classic about a group of pirates who get on a ship headed for an island full of treasure.  A lot of fun if you like the Muppets like I do, but I guess it isn't as great and inspired as the original 1979 Muppet Movie.  Oh well, at least Tim Curry has fun with Long John Silver.  B+ "},{"Title":"Easily, One of the Best Muppet Movies","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I own the entire Muppet Movie collection, and have watched them all, many times. While this is not my personal favorite, it is easily the best of the line. As an adaptation of a classic work, as was the Muppet Christmas Carol, this zany recreation holds some intrigue, some good tense moments, and great laughs, while managing to project a strong moral center.With the wild popularity of Disney's Pirates line, I can see why a reissue of this work was necessary. With Tim Curry as Long John Silver, HOW could you go wrong? This is great fun, wildly entertaining, and just plain good.It rates a 7.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A Muppet Classic","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My favorite Muppet Film, watched with my son many, many times. Suitable for adults and children alike. Humorous film with great catchy songs and a good performance from Tim Curry. Still keeps the story of the original Treasure Island classic going while bringing fun and humour to the captains table. Tunes like Cabin Fever are memorable and bring a smile to the face. I remember the film was launched in the UK in Bristol at the same time as the  Festival Of The Sea  which was a festival to mark Bristol's nautical past and of course has connections with Robert Louis Stephenson's Classic book. If you have children or just love the Muppets this is the film for you. Billy Connolly also makes an appearance in this film and of course the Muppets as usual have their own characters and sometimes you just forget that they are just puppets. Well written and a memorable film. "}{"Title":"Muppets Find No Treasure Here.","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Muppet Treasure Island (1996) Dir Brian Henson / Cast Tim Curry, Kevin Bishop, Billy Connolly, Jennifer Saunders, David Nicholls Weak Muppet entry being too bland and unoriginal. It features Tim Curry as Long John Silver the pirate of the old Treasure Island movies. Kermit the frog is a captain with Sam the eagle as his first officer. They are off to find treasure but along the way they are captured by a tribe of pigs, which reunites Kermit with Miss Piggy. Brian Henson does a fine job directing and the production is wonderful but the plot is not. Fozzie Bear annoyingly holds conversation with his finger. Curry does a fine job as Silver and despite standard plotting he learns the value of goodness. Kevin Bishop plays the young hero who will influence evil to good. Billy Connolly and Jennifer Saunders are featured but unfortunately to cardboard affect. This is not up to par with earlier Muppet outings, and its playful use of violence should render discernment for really young viewers. Story is predictable and it pretty much contains the same agenda as Muppet Christmas Carol, which is to cast Muppets where real actors once dwelled. Unfortunately this is the worst edition to the Muppets film and not nearly as entertaining as an episode of the popular show. It leaves one with the notion that perhaps they should give up on the treasure and search for a decent screenplay instead. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"Certainly One of the Weakest Muppet Movies,but Kermit and the Gang Never Fail to Entertain,","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Muppet Treasure Island is a great movie with a very enjoyable storyline and a terrific cast of both live action actors and voice actors/puppeteers.It is certainly one of the worst Muppet movies,in fact in my opinion it is probably the weakest,but I still thoroughly enjoyed it,I love all the wonderful characters and they never fail to make me laugh and also make me emotional at times.Like all Muppet movies there are loads of great songs,this movies is no exception,the songs are very catchy,although there is certainly no songs as good or as memorable as classic Muppet tunes such as Rainbow Connection or Saying Goodbye.I really enjoyed Tim Curry's performance,he toned down on the usual creepy performances he gives,and portrays a more comedic character,although I thought the ending involving Long John Silver was quite lazily written.Muppet Treasure Island certainly has its flaws,but if you're a fan of the Muppets you can certainly look past them,I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good family film. After the death of his father,a young boy and his two friends,Gonzo and Rizzo,set off to find treasure using his dads treasure map.Best Performance Tim Curry "},{"Title":"Setting sail with Kermit and co","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After the so-so 'Muppet's most wanted' it was nice to go back and watch this film, which really does show the beloved characters off at their best.Using a lot of the same techniques as the earlier success 'Muppet Christmas Carol' the Muppets give their own fun filled interpretation of Treasure Island.Tim Curry holds the film together with a fabulously over the top performance, that more than makes up for the rather slow beginning. In typical Muppet fashion there are cameos and songs, as well as some now rather dated pop culture references that kids won't get but it doesn't matter.If you feel a bit let down by their recent outing, then a look back at this truly classic Muppet film could be what you need. "},{"Title":"late Kermit/Miss Piggy entrance","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Muppets gang try on this classic story with pirate treasure. It's got the irreverent sense of humor. That's definitely the good part of this movie.The less good is the bland boy lead Kevin Bishop. He's acceptable but just nothing special. The same can be said of the songs. It's just not memorable.The biggest sin of this movie must be the late entrance of both Kermit and Miss Piggy. How dare they treat Kermit as a secondary character. And Miss Piggy doesn't even get in till much much much later. That's a crime against pigmanity. I was wondering if they cut her out entirely. "},{"Title":"They're Almost the Exact Same Movie, Production Wise That Is.","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like the rest of the Muppet movies my family and I have on video, I remember seeing them all as a kid, but there was a long period I didn't watch it for a while. My earliest memory of watching the movie was in the fifth grade. I thought it was OK. After a long while, I saw all of these videos on video again, during my high school years. I loved this film - it was my second favorite Muppet movie! Watching it now as an adult, I think it's good, but I don't think it's as good as I thought it was during my high school years.First of all, it's hard for me to talk about this movie without comparing it to their last movie, The Muppet Christmas Carol. They're almost the exact same movie, production wise that is. Think about it they were made by the same film companies (Walt Disney Pictures & Jim Henson Productions); they're both based on classic books written by nineteenth-century English writers; the Muppets are sharing the spotlight with live British actors; and they're both made by almost the exact same people. Really! Look at the back of the video, DVD, or Blu-ray cases of these movies. They have the same writers, producers, director, editor, director of photographer, etc.!In fear that his legendary treasure map will fall in the wrong hands, Billy Bones gives the map to young Jim Hawkins. He and his friends, Gonzo and Rizzo, go to central England to find someone to fund the voyage to the treasure. Once this happens, they load the boat and meet the colorful characters on board Long John Silver, his pet lobster Polly, Samuel Arrow, and Captain Abraham Smollett. What they don't know is Long John and some other pirates on board are planning on committing mutiny and taking the treasure for themselves.Like The Muppets Christmas Carol, the movie follows the story pretty well. There are things that are changed around here (in fact I think this movie follows the book less than it does in the last movie), but you get the idea of the story. Another comparison between the two films is the Muppets share the spotlight with live actors, especially Tim Curry. Again, it's kind of weird, but it works OK. However, there is a difference between the two movies that makes me appreciate the other movie more than this one. The humor from The Muppet Christmas Carol created itself. It came based on the characters and situations as they occurred. Here, there are a lot of references to modern entertainment and pop culture. They reference the NBA, shopping networks, and Disneyland (or Disneyworld). For me, that's kind of annoying. The magic of The Muppet Christmas Carol is that they stayed in their time period. The story and the movie both are timeless enough to last forever; there's no reference to anything in modern pop culture - they just tell the story. Here, we're taken out of the magic because of the modern references. To be honest, that's my biggest problem with the movie. I think I'd enjoy the movie just as much as I did as a teenager if it weren't for those references.What do I like about the movie? This is something I should have mentioned in my review for The Muppet Christmas Carol, but I like the world that's created here for the Muppets. What I mean by that is the Muppets live right beside the live humans here. In the earlier Muppet movies, the Muppets were always together. It was as if they lived together as a group, and the rest of the world had live humans, as if the Muppets were the odd ones. Here, the Muppets live right beside the humans. They live with them, they live like them, they live and walk in the same communities, they work together - much like the world created on Sesame Street.I also like the relationship between Long John and Jim. It seems really genuine. You buy that these two are buddies. And, like in their last movie, I like that this movie has some dark moments (this one probably goes darker than the previous ones), and it's balanced with a some light-hearted moments. The songs are...OK. I love Shiver My Timbers and Something More Than This. The other songs are OK, though Love Led Us Here seems really weird for this movie...or for the scene it was played in. I think it's very Disney-ish, as if the executives from Disney wanted this song to be in the film because there's always a romantic moment in Disney...That, and we need a moment between Kermit and Piggy.In closing, I like this movie. I think it's a good movie that tells the story of Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island pretty well. It's a nice way to introduce the story to kids, and see the Muppets take on this story. Take a look and judge for yourself. BOOYIKA! "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie!  Still love it to this day!","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember watching this movie probably when it first came out and then every once in a while on the Disney Channel. I remember laughing every time. Eventually the movie slipped my mind and I hadn't watched it for about 6 years. When I rediscovered it I fell in love all over again! This movie is fantastic and very memorable. I read reviews about Muppet Treasure Island and it seems that it gets overlooked or is underrated. Any Muppet fan needs to see this movie, you will love it. Tim Curry as Long John Silver is wonderful. You can see how much fun he is having with the role. He put his heart into that role and has even been quoted as saying that this role is one of his favorites that he has ever done. Being able to act along puppets and make them seem real by interactions seems like a tough job and Tim Curry pulls it off wonderfully. The songs, cast, writing, jokes and everything with this movie makes it a classic for any Muppet fan of any age. My 4 year old cousin picks this movie whenever she can and she dances and laughs at the movie. 10/10 for any Muppet fan! "},{"Title":"MUPPET TREASURE ISLAND (Brian Henson, 1996) ***","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Though it does not have the reputation of its predecessors, this is perhaps the most consistently entertaining Muppet movie so far; like the previous entry, MUPPET Christmas CAROL (1992), it transposes the lovable 'characters' into the environment of a popular children's classic &#150; in this case, R.L. Stevenson's quintessential pirate yarn Treasure Island. Unlike the Dickens tale, this particular plot had never before been attempted as a musical (much less a lampoon)&#133;but, for the most part, it retains the flavor of the original (despite innumerable modern interjections and in-jokes that sometimes fall flat) and proves surprisingly faithful (with the obvious modification so as to accommodate Miss Piggy). She appears as Benjamina Gunn, while Kermit is the 'fearsome' Captain Smollett (with Sam Eagle as his first-mate who likes to anticipate his would-be ruthless commands). Though usually the major figures in a Muppet show, Kermit and Miss Piggy (their best bit involves them hanging over a precipice, with the former's eyeballs virtually bursting out of their sockets as he valiantly holds the latter by her feet) are overshadowed here by Rizzo the Rat &#150; who, apart from being perennially hungry (as was his custom), is instilled with a cynical outlook and nervous demeanor but also a shrewd business sense (turning the Hispaniola into the poor man&#133;er&#133;mouse's cruise liner)! &#150; and a dopey-looking pirate goat appropriately dubbed Clueless. Also notable, though, is the vicious Blind Pew (who prefers to address his particular affliction in modern parlance i.e. visually challenged!); The Great Gonzo is basically no more than his weird-looking self (and that is all he needs to be, really), but Fozzie Bear is a hoot as the self-proclaimed half-wit son of Squire Trelawney (who has named and carries conversation with his index finger!). On the human front, we get two name actors &#150; Tim Curry as an adequately roguish Long John Silver and Billy Connolly (with heavy Scots accent intact) as Billy Bones; the kid playing Jim Hawkins acquits himself well enough, too, and there is a hilarious running-gag early on involving the female inn-keeper's acute sense of hearing. Typically, the songs are no great shakes per se but serve their purpose for the duration. "},{"Title":"A decent Muppet film which combines the usual Muppet comedy, catchy songs and colourful sets.","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Muppet Treasure Island (1996, Dir. Brian Henson) After telling the story of Flint's last journey to young Jim Hawkins (Bishop), Billy Bones (Connelly) has a heart attack and dies just as Jim and his friends are attacked by pirates. The gang escapes into the town where they convince Squire Trelawney (Oz) to hire out a boat and crew to find the hidden treasure, which was revealed by Bones before he died. On their voyage across the seas, they soon find out that not everyone on board can be trusted.A decent Muppet film which combines the usual Muppet comedy, catchy songs and colourful sets. Tim Curry, who can be seen obviously having a wonderful time, is the highlight of the film and the young Kevin Bishop portrays a good Jim Hawkins, but some Muppet fans might be disappointed in the lack of Miss Piggy who only turns up in the last quarter of the film.Oh, aye, and then old Flinty up and died before they could get back to that cursed island and dig up the treasure. &#150; Billy Bones (Billy Connelly) "},{"Title":"Dull and Unfunny","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As far as quality goes, the Muppet films are all over the board. From mediocre entries such as Muppets From Space and The Muppet Christmas Carol, to masterpieces like The Muppets Take Manhattan and the 2011 reboot, you can never tell whether you're about to watch dull puppet wizardry, or a new favorite film. Unfortunately, Muppet Treasure Island ranks among the very worst of the Muppet films, and that is a downright shame.Following the plot of Robert Louis Stevenson's classic, Treasure Island, Muppet Treasure Island is about a boy named Jim Hawkins, who with his friends Rizzo the Rat and Gonzo, as well as a host of other characters, go in search of buried treasure. Of course, their journey will not be without peril, as a dastardly plot concocted by pirates awaits the crew.Muppet Treasure Island is dreadfully dull most of the time. Gags are bland and uninspired, dialogue is mostly the same. While there are a handful of amusing bits here and there, they don't come nearly often enough. Some smiles, one or two chuckles, and not a single belly laugh.To make things worse, Muppet Treasure Island has a grand total of seven songs, and almost none of which are appealing. Shiver My Timbers, Sailing for Adventure, Professional Pirate, and Boom Shakalaka, fall under the mediocre/forgettable/inoffensive category. Something Better, and Love Led Us Here, are absolutely awful (Something Better may have been less painful had it not been for Kevin Bishop's high pitched and highly annoying singing voice). The only decent song in the whole film is Cabin Fever, which is actually quite fun and is the highlight of the film.Like The Muppet Christmas Carol, Muppet Treasure Island is much more human involved than the other Muppet films. This is a shame considering that the Muppet characters are so much more entertaining. And it doesn't help that the actors behind the human characters perform less than satisfactorily.Kevin Bishop, playing the child lead, is clunky as an actor, though I've seen worse. The thing that really makes his part in Muppet Treasure Island nearly unbearable is his extremely high voice. Tim Curry plays Long John Silver. He's intentionally dramatic and over the top, but this is more obnoxious than comedic. Billy Connolly gets a small part as Billy Bones that's forgettable, but not poor.The score for Muppet Treasure Island is composed by Hans Zimmer. The score makes up one of the least offensive parts about this film. It's not particularly interesting most of the time, but it's occasionally rousing.Though Muppet Treasure Island tries hard, it's the worst of the Muppet films, and simply awful. It's rarely funny, hardly amusing, and poorly acted. Though the musical number, Cabin Fever is fun, and the breaking of the fourth wall provides a few smiles, Muppet Treasure Island lacks the enchantment and joy of the series' best entries. It's also surprisingly violent (and profane) for a G-rated flick, but in a film as dull as this, that's the least of it's problems. "},{"Title":"Set sail for adventure with Kermit & the Gang!","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This has to be one of my favorite films from the Muppets! It brings back the charm the original movies had and goes to show that Kermit and his friends still have that magical touch. I think Jim Henson would have been proud of this movie because of its simple but hysterical tone. Many of my friends today still use many of the funny one liners and jokes from it. And how could you not love the new characters such as Clueless Morgan and Polly Lobster?? Or what about Tim Curry's fantastic role as Long John Silver? But we all know that the true star of the show is Miss Piggy, or at least that's what Kermit wants her to believe! In short, its a perfect movie for any kid (or kid at heart) that loves action, comedy, romance, and the Muppets. "}{"Title":"Beware of running with scissors...or any other pointy objects.","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Fasten your seatbelts, you're in for an exciting ride. If you want fun, adventure, and laughs...then Muppet Treasure Island is for you. In typical Muppet fashion, Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island is retold...Muppet style.All the Muppets play various characters in the tale, and are as funny as always. Tim Curry plays Long John Silver, and is very funny as the one-legged man. Billy Connolly plays Billy Bones, and is funny (albeit the brief role in the beginning of the film *SPOILER*...he dies. He dies? And this is supposed to be a kids movie!) Young Kevin Bishop (who would be about two years older than me now...I'm 23) plays Jim Hawkins, and interacts well with the Muppets and with Long John Silver.If you like the Muppets, and love to laugh, then you'll love Muppet Treasure Island. Fun for both adults and kids alike. "},{"Title":"Pity.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Muppet Treasure Island is another one of those films that has so much to offer, but unfortunately seems to deliver very little.  The pitch must have been a doddle Treasure Island, yeah, but throw in the Muppets for comic appeal, add a little intrigue and lovely sets, and Bob's your father's brother - a definite money spinner.Half of the problem with the film is the running time it's a hundred minutes according to the IMDB, but it still seems to be far too long.  A lot of the situations (and particularly the songs) just seem to drag too much.  That's not to say the songs aren't good - Love Led Us Here is a gorgeous ballad (stick around to hear the heart-warming version at the end of the credits), Cabin Fever is funny enough, and Something Better is sweet.  But they just seem to weigh the film down too much.  There really isn't enough to keep your average adult stimulated, which is a disappointment because the part of the Muppets' success is the gags appeal to most senses of humour no matter what your age.On the other hand, the younger members of the audience seemed to like it quite a bit, so there's clearly enough to keep the moppets amused.  If you're watching the film with kids, as I was, they will probably enjoy it loads, particularly if they know the Muppets already.  That's the great thing about the Muppets you're watching a character you know and love take on a different persona in the film, like you're watching one of your mates play a big movie role.  You know that Miss Piggy is temperamental and the best karate pig you know of, so you can guess she's going to chop somebody in the stomach and send them flying, no matter what character she plays.  You laugh because she's not just Benjamina Gunn, she's Miss Piggy too.Tim Curry is merely all right as Long John Silver (a little too bit over the top in places, and the stereotypically swarthy laugh will probably grate after a while), Jennifer Saunders is adequate in her brief role, as is Billy Connolly.  Jim Hawkins, played well by Kevin Bishop in his first screen role, is a very sensitive hero and adds a great deal of depth to the film.  Gonzo and Rizzo make a good team, as we discovered earlier in A Muppet Christmas Carol, and Kermit in his role as Captain Smollet is good - but doesn't shine nearly as much as he did as Bob Cratchett.  Miss Piggy is, as usual, fabulous as Benjamina Gunn (I'm a pig I need commitment) - but isn't on screen for nearly long enough.The sets are great, the one-liners are good fun, the original score is top-hole (by noted movie composer Hans Zimmer).  All said and done, the movie does have so much going for it, but it just lacks the tightness that would push it to better heights, and perhaps this is partly due to director Brian Henson a noted family connection does not necessarily a good director make.  Having said that, he also directed A Muppet Christmas Carol, and that was great.  So, I don't know.  I just get the impression that, despite all the good stuff the film has to offer, there's just too much filler.  Take out all this stuff and a few of the mediocre jokes, bung in funnier jokes and (as an excellent director once told me) crank it up a gear and voila!  Better movie.There's a line in the film by Statler and Waldorf (the two old guys in the balcony in The Muppet Show - remember?) which goes something along the lines ofHey!  We saved the pig and the frog! True, true.  Pity we couldn't save the movie!True.  A pity. "},{"Title":"It breaths life into a tired old story.","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hold on tight...I'm gonna say something that will no doubt shock many of you. I don't particularly like Treasure Island. I think it's a bit silly and there have been way too many versions. So, I wasn't exactly excited when my daughter suggested we see the film. Fortunately, this Muppet version offers enough to make it worth seeing--unlike the typical version of this classic (but dull) tale.The plot is very similar to the original story but with (fortunately) many Muppet touches. When the film sticks to the original plot and (especially) the original style of language, the film lags a bit. But, when silly stuff is tossed in, the audience's interest is piqued and the film becomes quite clever. A few of the very funny touches are the rats you see throughout the movie, the Swedish Chef's cameo and the truly nutty but wonderful 'Cabin Fever' song! It doesn't always work, I will admit, such as perhaps one song too many and some painful singing by the child playing young Jim Hawkins. Nothing against the kid--I am sure he's a swell person, but here he is a but underwhelming--and this would be true of many child actors given such prominence in a film.Overall, though I was predisposed to dislike this one, I didn't. There was enough for this curmudgeon to like and it's actually one of the better Muppet films. Surprise, surprise. "},{"Title":"Love Led Us Here.","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Director Brian Henson gives us the fifth Muppet movie with Muppet Treasure Island. The film follows Jim Hawkins played by Kevin Bishop receiving a treasure map after his father Billy Bones played by Billy Connely dies. Jim meets Long John Silver played by Tim Curry who wants the map for himself. The muppets are really funny in this film, the musical performances are spot on, and Tim Curry is as encentric as ever. Although in this film The muppets really don't have a lot to work with, the film is a little to violent for small children, and Miss Piggy does not show up until 1hr 6min in the movie. Despite all the negatives i still recommend this film.Rated G.1hr 40min/100min.***/**** "},{"Title":"A kids movie that everyone can enjoy!","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is what I like to call one heck of a movie! I saw it as a child shortly after it came out on video, so needless to say I hardly remembered any of it before a recent viewing. I was a tad worried when my friends suggested it, thinking they had some screws loose for suggesting a kiddie movie, but I was completely surprised! This is one hilarious movie, with Tim Curry as Long John Silver and the whole Muppet crew as the rest of the cast. While some of the songs weren't great, this was an exciting, funny, and just all-around great flick! Even if you don't think you'd like a movie that features more puppets than humans, I say check it out ye scurvy dogs!8/10 "},{"Title":"One of my favourite Muppet Movies!","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am 16, and I absolutely love this movie. I absolutely love Muppets Christmas Carol as well, but here there is Tim Curry and a great storyline based on one of the best children's books ever. It is a little slow at the beginning, but that is the ONLY thing wrong with it. i can't believe the rating is so low for this movie, it should be more than a 6.5 surely. Don't rate it low because of the target audience, which is children. Believe me, adults will enjoy it too. The set designs as usual in a Muppet movie are splendid, and the songs by Barry Mann and Cynthia Weil are fun, and are embedded with great jokes. My favourite is Professional Pirate, which has the best lines of the film, but Cabin Feaver is wonderfully upbeat as well. Tim Curry, the most underrated actor and performer alive today, gives an outstanding performance, that has only been surpassed by Pennywise the Dancing Clown and FrankNFurter. He is at his element here, and he even gives his trademark...The Cheshire Cat grin! The relationship between Silver and Hawkins, played by the immensely talented Kevin Bishop, was so well developed, that the ending seemed poignant.(I could see that both Curry and Bishop looked as though they were fighting back tears in that scene) In fact their relationship was developed better than it was in the book. The Muppets were excellent here, especially Gonzo and Rizzo, who never disappoint. There were some absentees and some additions, most notably Clueless Morgan. Kermit and Miss Piggy have a touching romance, that for once doesn't take too long. Billy Conolly gives an entertaining rendition of Billy Bones, and Jennifer Saunders was hysterical as Mrs Bluebridge. One word of advice; never watch the Muppets Wizard Of Oz! It is dreadful, and without doubt is the worst Muppet movie to date. Watch this though! You'll never regret it. Two Thumbs up and a 9/10. Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Great Muppet Fun!!!!","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i remember seeing this movie in the cinemas when i was a kid and unfortunately never had the opportunity to see it again until recently. i was finding movies to buy and i had told my sister once i wanted it. she came to me and showed me she had found it and without a second thought i bought it.we watched it that afternoon and i was in such a good mood watching it. from small appearances by Billy Connolly play Billy Bones to Tim Curry playing Long John Silver was great. the muppets spin on this classic tale was a lot of fun to watch. the muppets truly did well with this movie.this movie will be enjoyed by all the family young and old, soft and tough. you cannot go wrong with this. "},{"Title":"A very fun film.","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Featuring our favourite puppets, the muppets, this particular Muppet film is based on Treasure Island. It is not totally similar to the original book - but who cares? This is a hilarious, exciting and even heart-warming film. Both the muppets and the non-muppets do a very good acting job. The muppetty plot laid out works very well. The songs are well-written, fun and can stick in your head (pleasantly) for days. As I may have mentioned in a different way, the jokes are very good. I do not think this film would be worth watching without the humour, really.You probably know the story, a boy called Jim Hawkins finds a treasure map and sets sail out for Treasure Island for treasure (duh) and meets the evil Long John Silver - with one leg. Well, imagine this plot with muppets featured! Meet Gonzo and Rizzo, Jim's companions, Kermit as the Captain of the Hispaniola (Captain Abraham Smollett) and more!I recommend this fantastic film to anyone who likes the muppets and their sense of humour and films with mad songs. Enjoy Muppet Treasure Island! -) "},{"Title":"Muppets steal the show in this energetic kiddie romp.","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take The Muppets charm, along with the guests stars in this entertaining family romp. MUPPET TREASURE ISLAND wasn't meant to be a serious adaptation of Robert Louis Stevenson's classic adventure story, so why not simply enjoy it. This Muppet version of the classic story is fun, funny and spirited. There's a lot of funny moments, most of which come from the exuberant glee of Jim Henson's batch of funny Muppets. Although adults will find much to deprive and annoyed, this is a fun and enjoyable romp for the young, young-at-heart and for those willing enough to be so.The story is basically similar, as we once again go across the sea, joining the young Jim Hawkins (Kevin Bishop) and the feisty pirate Long John Silver (Tim Curry), in search of the long lost treasure. The film is given a Muppet twist, which includes much of our favorite Muppet characters, including Kermit the Frog, Miss Piggy, Fozzy Bear, Gonzo and all of those other rambunctious little Muppet characters are here and there.Adults may find a small discomfort when watching this kid-oriented film, but it's still a fun and bright family movie, mostly recommended for the younger set. Here's simply viewing it as a fun and appealing, with that you'll find it quite a pleaser. Any Muppet fan will be pleased by this jolly costume party, and kids will have a howling good time.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"An entertaining voyage","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Another successful trip into classic literature for the muppets. This film is fun throughout and should be well loved by children. The plot works well for a muppet film with the voyage giving rise to lively songs like cabin fever, sailing for adventure and professional pirate. The usually dose of intelligent muppet humour that adults can appreciate is also present.Tim Curry is great as Long John Silver and Kevin Bishop, Rizzo the Rat and the Great Gonzo make a very watchable trio. It is Sam the Eagle who really shines in this muppet caper however filling the role of first mate perfectly.It is not in the same class as A Muppet Christmas Carol ,few films are, somehow it lacks the subtle charm. Nevertheless it is still an entertaining voyage. "}{"Title":"Muppet Treasure Island","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Just like The Muppet Christmas Carol, they don't mess with the story, apart from having Muppets and the ending. Anyway, basically Jim Hawkins and his two friends Gonzo (Dave Goelz) and Rizzo the Rat (Steve Whitmire) want to explore. When they are given a treasure map, obviously they get a ship, captain and crew to find this island with treasure. Captain Smollet, or Kermit the Frog (Whitmire), Fozzie (Frank Oz), Animal (Oz) and Sam the Eagle (Oz) accompany them. Also starring Tim Curry as Long John Silver, Billy Connolly as Billy Bones and Jennifer Saunders as Mrs. Bluberidge. The Muppets were number 47 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Very good! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie takes the classic pirate tale and adds in a ton of humor. Although it's a bit predictable in some spots, it's quite entertaining and very funny. Featuring the entire Muppet cast (including Sam Eagle and the ever-popular Rizzo the Rat), and introducing several new characters (such as Polly the talking lobster), this is one movie you'll want to watch over and over. Even if you've seen any one of the many Treasure Island movies or hate pirate movies, you'll love this one. Rizzo, Gonzo, Fozzie and the entire gang make this a hilarious film. Plenty of action, great music (including a hilarious segment about Cabin Fever), loads of fun. Definitely worth buying. "},{"Title":"The Muppet movie with the best human cast","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Muppets are back! And they're having another great adventure.The story seems like a poor excuse to let the Muppets do so more and new crazy things. But does it really matter? I don't think so, it's very entertaining and good for more then a few laughs.The characters are highly amusing and Sam The Eagle as always steals the show! But the human cast is also amazing and forms the best Muppet movie cast. Tim Curry is excellent! And Jennifer Saunders and Billy Connolly are very entertaining. Kevin Bishop however seems like a better stage player then a movie actor.The movie features some wonderful songs and the music by Hans Zimmer is surprising good! The sets and all are however obvious fake and shot in a studio which is a bit of a shame but it doesn't make the movie less entertaining. Not at all!Granted that it's not the best Muppet movie every made but still it's worth watching if you like the Muppets or if you like Tim Curry because he really is excellent in this one.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"AWESOME MUPPETS ADVENTURE!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is fantastic! The whole muppet crew embarking on an adventure to find treasure. Plenty of great actors feature in this movie as well as the classic muppets Kermit, Miss Piggy, Gonzo, Rizzo The Rat, Fozzie etc. There are some very funny moments in this movie that will just make you laugh out loud! In fact, it's nearly as good as The Muppet Christmas Carol, but not quite... 8/10 "},{"Title":"Brian Henson's best! (Not Jim's mind you)","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" stars Kevin Bishop, Tim Curry, Billy Connely and Jennifer Saunders.Muppeteers Steve Whitmire as Kermit the frog, Rizzo, Beaker and others.Dave Goelz as The Great Gonzo, Dr. Bunsen Hunnydew, Waldorf and Zoot.Jerry Nelson as Blind Eyed Pew, Statler, Mad Monty, Floyd Pepper, Lew Zealand, Robin the frog and others.Frank Oz as Sam the Eagle, Fozzie Bear, Miss Piggy and Animal.Kevin Clash as Polly the Lobster and others.Bill Barretta as Clueless Morgan, Rowlf the dog and others.John Henson as Sweetums and Sal Manilla.Brian did an excellent job in directing this! It's much better than the mediocre Christmas Carol. So anyways, it's about Muppets and some humans heading to an island with treasure and having trouble when the captain (Kermit, of course), finds out that half the ship's crew are pirates and that mutiny is on the horizon. Not only clever, but has some very catchy tunes, even without Paul Williams. All the human's performances were surprisingly excellent, especially Tim Curry as a seemingly nice pirate. Muppet fans may or may not be mad that puppet Scooter not only doesn't have any lines, but isn't even seen in the movie! Another Muppet fact is that Rowlf also barely appears, only in a small role at the beginning, but oh well, it's still the Muppets!My favorite line in the movie Zoot Hey! I don't get it. Are we on the good guys side, or are we with the pirates? Floyd Pepper Hey man. Don't get so wrapped up in politics, just play the gig!My rating-A. 92 mins. rated G, but contains violence and some mild language. "},{"Title":"This was a good movie","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It was very interesting to say in the least but I mean that in a good way!I love this movie , It was one of the best and my most favorite Muppet movie.It was hilarious , now I usually watch horror movies but I had to watch this , it came on HBO a while back and I Loved it! It makes for a great family film . They set the mood and lighting so well. It also is just plain funny, There are a lot of one-liners and random actions that are comical. Not only is this great for kids its also a great film for adults and teenagers that still have a childish streak. I am going to give this movie 9/10 stars , because I thought some aspects of it could be better bun great fun never the less. "},{"Title":"A winning combination","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Pirates, Tim Curry, and the Muppets!  How can you go wrong with this combination?  You can't and this movie is no exception to the rule. For one it has all of the above and second, its the only movie with everyone. Muppet Treasure Island is a great film!  If you have yet to see this movie, you should. "},{"Title":"10!!! Great movie! I watch it every time I get the chance","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I simply adore this movie. I simply adore this movie. I simply adore this movie.I showed to a friend... Now he is as hooked on it as I am.Tim Curry is simply the best pirate i have ever seen. I read the book (by R.L.Stevenson) and I was fascinated. I saw this movie and I am in love.The only thing I found to be a set-back, was all the singing. But then again the lyrics are hilarious. "},{"Title":"I love this movie...","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My name is Meghan. My family and I saw it once in theatres  (which is rare) and that was the last movie all of us saw together. I guess the only reason I went was because I was forced to. It wasn't one of those movies where I begged my mom to take me to or one of those movies I taped the making of, but do you know what...I am glad my family made me see that movie. )I am 14 now...15 on October 31st...and most teenagers my age think that is the un-cool thing to do...is to see kid's movies. Well, they're wrong. I enjoyed every minute of it. I've always loved and admired Tim Curry in movies playing bad guys. I think this is his best appearance yet. I am glad they chose an actor like Kevin Bishop because I believe he wasn't that famous before the film but maybe this movie can bring him a step higher into being a well known actor. I think Jennifer and Billy were great in the movie too! I seriously can't imagine anyone else playing their parts.The songs in the movie always make me want to sing and dance...anywhere! Sometimes when I go to class people catch me humming or whistling a MTI song. Also during lunch or in the halls you'll catch me dancing around or just doing weird moves while singing a song. A long time ago when I taped the movie off of the Disney Channel I taped the songs as well in a microphone to a cassette tape...it wasn't perfect..but it's better than nothing! Seriously though...whenever I watch the movie...you'll always catch me either tapping my feet or hands, swaying my head, nodding my head, whistling, humming, singing, and so much more.I have recommended people to see this movie such as friends and teachers. Whenever my friends slept over we watched that movie whether it was their first time or if they wanted to see it again. We always enjoy it.I love the settings (though it was mostly on a boat) and the costumes. I just can't stop getting jealous over Benjamina's white ruffled dress and the buckle shoes. I wish I had a dress like that in my size. ) Everyone's outfit, including the muppets and humans, was magnificent. People actually took time to make these outfits and not just go in a rush about it.I have only one problem with the whole movie...as someone said before...it's rated G. I think it should be rated PG. Some violence, one bad word (kids like to quote from movies, I've experienced with my 4 y/o niece) afighting, etc.Another good thing about this movie is that it has almost everything in this movie. Comedy, drama,  romance, thriller, fantasy, etc.I would like to give this movie 4½ stars out of 5...only because I NEVER give a 5 out of 5 so 4½ is the best for me. ) So I don't confuse you all...let's just say I guess the ½ in 4½ means of all the bad stuff in it...which as you see is not a whole lot. )I recommend this movie to everyone. Children, teenagers, adults, seniors. Everyone. I bet some teenagers I know would like this movie, even if they say they don't like it around their friends. )Thank you for your time reading this! )            "},{"Title":"YO HO!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A-Hoy!  This film had an excellent depiction of pirates.  Tim Curry should have won an Oscar for his dead on performance as the second best pirate in history.  Second to me, of course.  Professional Pirate is also one of the best songs ever written and recorded, I suggest you listen to it daily, as I do.  If you don't agree, I have a black spot with your name on it. -=Capt. Scholten=- "}{"Title":"Oh dear ...","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, this is a disappointment to say the least.  Too many of the old team are missing (Rowlf being especially conspicuous by his almost total absence).  The script is very ropey too and relies far too heavilly on human characters. "},{"Title":"Anybody have a fresh pillow, because Jim Henson is rolling over in his grave","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Anyone with brains knows that Hollywood has never made an honest movie in its life . . . . and muppet creator Jim Henson's handy relation, Brian, keeps the b.s. of Hollywood alive by occupying Jim's position as muppet movie director just because he's related.Typically claustrophobic muppet mess which seems to lack a script -- or at least a coherent one. Brian Henson's choppy direction remains a sore spot accompanied by the usual patented muppet movie noise and confusion. Tim Curry expectedly overacts as 'Long John Silver' and he looks adequately embarrassed while he does it.Jim Henson was a genius who was responsible for the rise of the muppet empire, but that empire should finally fall by disappearing from American movie theaters for good. "},{"Title":"Best Muppet Film EVAR XD","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Six years after the puppet legend's maniacal death of Staph Infection, His child quickly got away with the most dazzling Muppet film i've ever seen o_O, The story follows Jim Hawkins (Kevin Bishop) working at an inn alongside hotheaded innkeeper Mrs Blubridge (Jennifer Saunders). After his friend Billy Bones (Billy Connoly) Dies via 'The Black Spot' Jim and his two Muppet friends Gonzo & Rizzo quickly look for the treasure Billy was talking about. Alongside John Silver (Tim Curry (I Love this guy X3)) whom is really a cook but is sneakily abandoning Sam the Eagle just to claim the treasure of his own, For he had one leg that Billy warned Jim about. Moral TRUSTING TIM CURRY IS A BIT...WELL...PENNYWISE! "},{"Title":"Treasure Island, Muppet Style!!","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Muppet Treasure Island' is a 1996 film released by Walt Disney Pictures (second released by Disney after 'The Muppet Christmas Carol') and Jim Henson Productions, based on the novel Treasure Island by Robert Louis Stevenson. Starring Kermit the Frog as Captain Smollett and Miss Piggy as Benjamina Gunn (Ben Gunn in the book) and Kevin Bishop as Jim Hawkins. A tale as only the Muppets can tell, they set sail for a treasure with a crew of cutthroat pirates and scallywags.This is in fact, the first and only Muppet film where someone dies (Billy Bones played by Billy Connolly at the hotel). Tim Curry is genius as the notorious Long John Silver, he plays the part well. Altogether, this film is worth the watch, but not the best film of the Muppet franchise. It deserves a solid 9 out of 10. Kids will most likely enjoy the film, as will some adults who enjoy the Muppets. "},{"Title":"Another Muppet version of a classic 19th century story, and they once again pulled it off","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the fifth theatrical Muppet movie, and the second one made after creator Jim Henson's premature death. For this one, they took a 19th century story and incorporated the Muppets into it, just like they did with the first 90's movie featuring the famous puppet performers. The Muppet Christmas Carol is an adaptation of A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens and Muppet Treasure Island is an adaptation of Treasure Island by Robert Louis Stevenson. I didn't see this film in the theatre, but first saw it around the time it was released on VHS later in 1996, and remember seeing it more than once in the 90's. I watched it for the first time in many years in 2007, and again three years later. I still think it's a good comedy adventure after these two viewings.Jim Hawkins is the orphaned son of a former first mate. He lives a dull life, working for a hot-tempered boss named Mrs. Bluveridge at an inn with Gonzo and Rizzo. Jim and the two Muppets live off table scraps. Billy Bones is an ex-pirate who lives at this inn and has a treasure map hidden away. After a pirate named Blind Pew comes and gives Billy a black spot, meaning the pirates are coming to kill him tonight, he plans to flee, but has a heart attack! Just before he dies, he tells Jim to take the map and to beware of the one-legged man! Pirates then come and invade the inn, and the place is soon set on fire, so Jim, Gonzo, and Rizzo all leave with the treasure map and set out to a nearby town. This is where they meet the half-witted son of Squire Trelawney (Fozzie Bear) and convince him to fund a voyage to find the treasure. They set out on a ship with Captain Smollet (Kermit the Frog), First Mate Samuel Arrow (Sam the Eagle), and many others. The cook on this ship is Long John Silver, a seemingly friendly man who has only one leg, which means that he could be the one Billy Bones was talking about! The opening sequence features the first song in the film, Shiver My Timbers. I really liked this song as a kid and still do. It's an intense tune with a great melody. The film then goes from there to the inn, and there certainly are funny moments here. Gonzo and Rizzo, the first two Muppets that appear in the film, are definitely a part of the humour, and it helps that Billy Bones is played by Billy Connolly, a talented comedian. It also isn't long before the story gets exciting. After Jim, Gonzo, and Rizzo leave the inn, more Muppets soon appear, starting with Fozzie Bear as Squire Trelawney's son, who soon mentions Mr. Bimble, an imaginary man who lives in his finger. Even though this is very silly, it still made me laugh. As usual, the Muppets generally don't fail to provide laughs, and while most of the characters in the film are played by Muppets, there are some played by on screen actors other than Connolly. Tim Curry really stands out as Long John Silver. In addition to the humour, characters, and performances, this is also a movie with a lot of excitement and very impressive visuals. Most of the songs are not great, unlike the first one, but none of them are that bad. Also, the humour may get a BIT kiddish at times, the Mr. Bimble jokes may not always be that funny, and I didn't care much for certain moments in the movie with Miss Piggy as Benjamina Gunn, but other than that, there really aren't too many problems I can think of.This was the Muppets' last feature film before Muppets From Space, their sixth film, which was released three years after this one. The only time I've even seen that 1999 film was in 2008, and I remember finding it kind of hard to believe that came only three years after Muppet Treasure Island. Now that I've seen the other five theatrical Muppet movies again since seeing the 1999 effort, I honestly think that's the only bad one! Unlike the rest of them, I really thought it wasn't that funny and was also too dark for the Muppets. The other five are good, even though some are better than others, and The Muppet Movie is probably the best of them all. As the Muppets' second flick made after Jim Henson's sad passing, Muppet Treasure Island may not be as good as the first 90's film featuring the famous puppets, but at least it comes very close. I know it's far from being the most popular film in the franchise, but I thought it was a good family adventure movie when I was around ten years old and still do now. "},{"Title":"Quite funny and quite enjoyable","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie last night. It starts out with all these pirates going on a treasure hunt. And they do everything they can to find it. And the guests at a bar find the show pretty boring. After the guests leave Gonzo and Rizzo clean the bar up then they meet a boy named Jim who thinks he has a boring life and has always dreamed about being an explorer. Then Gonzo, Rizzo, and Jim find a treasure map they take into somebodys home but then some of the muppets want to kill Jim but some old lady saves him. Then they take it to Fozzie Bear and he leads them to a ship there they meet Long John Silver voiced by Tim Curry. When they arrive somewhere Kermet the Frog is coming off an ship and the crew sings a song about sailing by the deep blue sea. Long John Silver wanted to make a toast but Kermet said there will be no alcohol drinking on my ship. Then some guys kidnap Gonzo and Rizzo Gonzo says I'm taller I could have a future with the NBA and the bad guys say this won't work he likes it. Then when Jim meets up with Long John Silver he finds out that he turned bad. "},{"Title":"The Muppets worst film to date","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The nineties were not a kind decade for the Muppets.  It began with the death of their creator and mastermind, Jim Henson, followed just two years later by the passing of another gifted principal Muppeteer, Richard Hunt. They returned to the big screen in 1992 with a critical and financial success, Muppet Christmas Carol, but after that were bombarded with more unfortunate setbacks.  While their 1996 venture, Muppet Treasure Island did reasonable business, it was met with disappointment by critics and fans. A new television series, Muppets Tonight was cancelled after just one shaky season.  They then came back in 1999 with a new movie, Muppets from Space, their first original story in over fifteen years - which unfortunately met with more mixed reviews and bombed in theatres. Finally, Jim Henson company was in financial trouble and acquired by a German entertainment corporation, which was running into money problems itself and left the future of the Muppets in question.So, as mentioned above, Muppet Treasure Island came in the middle of this 10-year semi-slump for the Muppets, and in my opinion, the critics hit the mark on it.  It is a somewhat empty, substanceless adventure that attempts to run in the same vein as Christmas Carol but fails to carry with it the magic.  Once again Gonzo and Rizzo are the real stars here, and that has it's downside.  They are great supporting characters, but it's Kermit, Fozzie & Piggy that are more suited for the limelight in these kinds of things.  Surprisingly, another Frank Oz character, Sam the Eagle, becomes a bigger star than Fozzie and Piggy in this film, but doesn't bring his usual humour to the role.  And another Oz favourite, Animal, is virtually absent, muttering two measly lines in the background of one scene and is never heard from again.  But I digress, as it's hard to squeeze all those lovable characters into the film in equel portions, especially when there is such a demanding story to cater to (they even make a nice joke out of a similar situation regarding the Swedish Chef!).Another big problem here would have to be the music.  This is where Disney's involvement comes in bigtime, and really tears the movie apart.  Music has always been a strong point of the Muppets, but here the tunes are quite forgettable, to say the least.  Hans Zimmer, of The Lion King fame does a really bland job of giving the muppets something to sing.The movie isn't horrible, it just feels a bit empty, as if the Muppets are being misused.  This is leaps and bounds away from The Muppet Movie. Maybe it's just depressing to see the Muppets being reduced to Disney-esque takes on classic novels, but this is the first Muppet movie where I really felt I was watching a kiddy-flick. "},{"Title":"Not much treasure here!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The shame of it! There I was, comfortable in the arm chair with a beer and a bag of popcorn, bouyant in the hope of another splendid Muppet night of entertainment. What did I get? Disappointed! How can the Muppets go from the sublime Christmas Carol to this? The humour was dreadful, the songs were worse than Country and Western (and that's saying something) and the plot was as confused and poor as Blind Pew. I think the main problem was that they bit off too much in attempting Treasure Island. A short tale, such as Christmas Carol, is perfect because you can weave the Muppet high jinks around it....here the need to drag the plot along stopped all the fun. Where do the Muppets go next? How about Muppets Wizard of Oz? "},{"Title":"Communication Meltdown","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Treasure Island DVD should be required viewing in any film production course! It's a textbook example of how NOT to make a movie. Watching the movie and then listening to the writer/director's commentary demonstrates graphically the vast chasm between what he knows about the characters and what he communicates to his audience about them. Call me old-fashioned, but I think of movies as a means of communication, and communication isn't complete if the audience doesn't know what the hell the director is talking about. The director's avowed purpose is to make a movie void of Hollywood conventions. Among those conventions, alas, is consistency of character and clarity of concept. The director himself realizes that audiences often don't understand points where he has purposely avoided a Hollywood cliché. However, he never seems to grasp the idea that clichés exist for a reason. They are shorthand for conveying complex ideas quickly and clearly. It's fine to avoid them, but they need to be replaced with some other way of communicating the same idea, not simply eliminated. The film is built on an intriguing premise, rich with potential. Two puppets are assigned to fabricate a personality and background for an unidentified corpse that is to be used in a disinformation mission in the closing days of WWII. Soon each begins to populate their personal fantasies with the character and their invention becomes increasingly real to them. Someone with less disdain for the Hollywood convention of traditional storytelling could create a wonderful film with this idea. This film certainly isn't it! The puppets do everything they can to bring consistency to these characters, but they are all too often defeated by the dazed and confused script. In particular, I'm becoming increasingly impressed by Gonzo, who plays the lively corpse. In a number of muppet films, he always stands out as a very charismatic puppet. "}]