[{"Title":"Maybe your Mother-In-Law will think twice before coming back to your house next Christmas after you show her this movie...","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood Hulk Hogan. A name synonymous with fake wrestling, baldness, and bad acting. Well, scratch the bad acting; Hulk's acting during a wrestling match is Anthony Hopkins-esque compared to the tripe in this film, and notice I use the term VERY carefully.....After a plot involving a rich guy hitting his head while putting on a Santa outfit while running from the police Why didn't he just give up? The guy was supposed to have millions of dollars, you'd think he could spare a hundered for bail, he wakes up imagining he is, indeed, Santa. As if he couldn't take one look in the mirror and realize Santa is neither balding nor a steroid junkie. Then, of course, there's the usual Stooge-style violence and a precocious Elven helper. Unless you want to share the same fate as Hollywood Hulk Hogan's acting career, I suggest you skip this and watch Hulk's classic Thunder in Paradise instead.... wait, did I just say that? Better skip that one, too.  "},{"Title":"You'll Laugh...You'll Cry...","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  And then you will reach for the nearest dull razor, or butterknife on your property and attempt to gouge your eyeballs out.  I've heard through word of mouth how aweful this film was, which inspired me to make a bid for it on an internet auction.  I should have known I was in over my head when free, or best offer was the opening bid.  Paintball with the cops, fierce battles using styrophome candy canes, exploding crystals, an orphanage with only 3 kids-this movie has it all.  If you have the opportunity to give this one as a gift, go for it.  That lucky someone in your life will be begging for coal this coming holiday season. "},{"Title":"Dear God, what have we done to deserve this torture?","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so bad, it's actually considered cruel and unusual punishment under the U.S. Constitution.  I wish I was exaggerating.  If you want a Christmas movie, go watch Miracle on 34th Street or something.  Just stay far, far, FAR, I can't emphasise this enough, FAR AWAY from this horrifyingly bad film. You've heard the phrase So bad, it's funny?  Well, this transcends So bad, it's funny and ends up just being horrible. "},{"Title":"A painful film experience... that I'd probably watch again.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Let me first say that this is a film which I gave a 1/10 stars, but it was one of those so bad, it's good types, which is why I must say that it was an enjoyable painful film experience.Santa with Muscles was just plain bad for a number of reasons... Let's Begin.Acting- You know the acting will be subpar when the star of the film is Hulk Hogan.  Hogan is a likeable character, but only in the ring, not the movie industry.  You would hope that the director would soften the blow to the movie by placing Hogan in a cast that he could learn from and play off of - but in this case, he was cast in a miserable selection of actors and actresses that undoubtedly regret becoming a part of this movie.  All acting was bad, but there were some enormously bad acting jobs by Steve Valentine and Kevin West.Plot- Intro to characters was brief and rediculous.  Viewers are supposed to buy into unbelievable situations, and are supposed to relate to characters that could be replaced with cardboard cutouts.  So the plot is off to a bad start.  It could still recover though... but it doesn't!  No surprize. So it is something like this - rich dude goes to mall, hits head, thinks he's santa, saves the day against hapless thugs, finds orphanage with only 3 kids, wants to save orphanage from evil guy, beats people up, hits head (on soft garbage), recruits his staff, kicks butt, saves the day, orphanage now looks like a scene from Richie Rich.  RRiiiiigggggghhhhhhhtttttt.Continuity Problems- There are an incredible number of continuity problems in this film.  Ranging from car damage, to car order, room setups, time of day, etc.  Was there even an editor hired for this film?Other Issues I Had with the Movie- 1. Blake falls down a multi-story trash shoot (which by the way leaves to the floor and not a trash bin) and wakes up seconds later, later he falls into soft trash and doesn't wake up until at least hours later.  Hmmmmm... 2. It was so nice that even after her bedtime Sarah manages to get ahold of Blake's santa suit and totally alter it overnight.   3. An orphanage with three kids (unbelievable itself) uses a facility that it could never afford. 4. A white guy plays the sumo-type thug characters.  interesting, maybe they were low on cast members. 5. Odd that the state allowed an orphanage to exist in the facility that had open access to old catacobs (complete with plastic skeletons!!), and even more odd that the kids were allowed to have a club in the catacombs by their inresponsible caretakers. 6. Once Blake gets his memory back, he fails to remember his childhood! But luckily, one photo brings it all back.  facinating. 7. Frost's posse includes a geologist, a Canadian chemist, and an electifyingly ugly woman.  Not to mention a sumo thug, several guys with t-squares as weapons, and a doctor. 8. Blake stops a truck moving at 40+ miles an hour, or at least it is supposed to be that speed, but the obvious fastforward and then rewind effects didn't work too well. 9. Hapless police carry rocket launchers, fire at will, miss, and then make no attempt to chase after the hummer with a butler, chef, and driver hanging out the top.  10.  My favorite... the HORRIBLE one-liners that filled the dialouge of the movie.  Bar none the worst was Santa Sleigh Me.  I nearly peed my pants when I heard that.  I'll admit, I bought this movie online (used) after I saw it on the IMDB bottom 100.  The reviews had me in tears, and I had to experience this movie.  Even the reviews couldn't prepare me for a cinema experince of this low quality.  It is a poorly thought out, poorly directed, poorly acted, poorly produced, poorly scripted, poorly casted movie that you have gotta see.1/10 Stars   "},{"Title":"What a revolting development","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, first things first.  Upon renting or viewing any Hulk Hogan movie, one should never set their sights very high.  You have the constants of bad acting, senseless and cartoonish violence, and groan-worthy puns.  You can also pretty much expect a super-contrived happy ending.  However, even taking these aspects for granted, Santa with Muscles still will leave you stunned.  It isn't quite the worst movie I've ever seen (Manos, Hootch County, and Ninja Wars beat it there) but it's definitely down there.The Hulkster stars as Blake Thorne, a big dumb prig with more money than he knows what to do with, so he spends his days playfully tormenting his house-servants. (The 'Stop and smell the roses!' line is a hoot!) Through a ludicrous turn of events, Blake gets amnesia and is convinced by a jerk named Lenny that he is the real Santa Claus.  Hijinks, fistfights and eye-rolling sappiness ensue.  Watch for two-count 'em-TWO instances of giant candy canes being used as weapons, a horrible song by Hulk and the little whiny girl, the equally stupid 'Blake's rules' and 'Santa's rules', and what is perhaps the most ridiculous McGuffin I've ever seen-but I'll leave that for you to discover.I can only recommend Santa with Muscles if you happen to have great patience and a high threshold of pain.  I wondered about half-way through, Has this been over 2 hours yet?...but despite what you may feel it is only a bit over 1 1/2.  Not a very merry way to spend your Christmas. "},{"Title":"The Hulkster must smoke rock","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" I am sure most of the posters here are not wrestling fans. Therefore, I will clue you in on a couple of things. Hulk Hogan is an ego maniacal jackass that demands creative control over anything he is involved in. This movie might not have been a classic when it was first written, but I will be fair and say it had average potential(a rating of 5). The movie probably had a different title at first until......Hulkamania arrived. Hulk Hogan has this remarkable ability to turn something good or average into unwatchable garbage. Original title may have been When Santa got Rich or Santa CEO or something slightly stupid. Hogan looks at the title and says no way brother, my fans don't know nothing about no CEO(the first true words to come out of the mouth of the Hulkster in twenty years). So he called it Santa with Muscles because no project involving Hogan is allowed to go 5 seconds without referring to the 24 inch pythons After adding scenes where blow up candy canes are used by Hogan with results comparable to the bomb dropped on Hiroshima, Hogan finally has gotten his wish. He ruined what might have been an enjoyable movie experience for two year olds and those who are mentally challenged or retards as Hogan's faithful redneck fans may call them.I am not surprised at how bad this film turned out. Wrestling fans with half a brain have hated Hogan for years. He exercises creative control when he is told that he is going to lose and this ends up boring anyone with a below average iq on up to tears. Hogan may have turned wrestling into a million dollar industry with a lot of help from the master marketing machine named Vince Mcmahon. Many good people sacrificed their wrestling careers by falling prey to Hogan's trademark leg drop of doom and now some poor director is probably living under a bridge in Los Angeles damning the day he got involved with Hulk Hogan. Hogan may have helped turn wrestling into mainstream entertainment, but he also singlehandedly destroyed the same industry(his tired act help put WCW into the ground) he helped build by never learning more than three moves. Punch, back scratch, high boot and leg drop. Oops that is four moves. Some things never change. In the ring the bad guy always loses to Hulk via leg drop. In the movies, Hogan expands his creative horizons by having the bad guy lose via Plastic candy Kane. "},{"Title":"nose bleadingly bad. The worst ever. please kill me.","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" This just goes to show that Hogan is a bad on the big screen as he is in the squared circle. How this film could ever have been commishoned is beyond belief.I hope someone was fired or even tortured for the production of this film.It is only a shame that the scoring system on the vote doesn't start at 0 because 1 is far to good for this film. This goes to show that Hogan should never be allowed to make any films EVER EVER AGAIN.Thanks for your time and please don't ever feel the need to watch this film to win a bet or if you are contemplating suicide. It will push you over the edge.  "},{"Title":"The True Meaning of Christmas...","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" Is to use any and all copies of this film as Yule Logs, though it would likely leave a lingering stench for weeks to come. Everyone has summed up this film pretty accurately; it makes the Christmas turkey that Scrooge bought for Bob Crachit look like a spring chicken. The film stars that great thespian Hulk Hogan. He has made some pretty awful films, but even he should have used an alias for this one. Not to be missed is his costume, which is pure Village People Santa (it's a shame they didn't record a song about the holiday joy of sitting on Santa with Muscle's lap). Granted, I am not a geologist, but any crystals that have the ability to explode if barely jostled can be used for sword fights later on in the film, well, your script editors have some continuity issues. Remember the old saying, that if you put 1000 monkeys into a room with 1000 typewriters, that one of them will eventually write Shakespeare? They might not get to Shakespeare, but this film is evidence that they will churn out a steaming pile of reindeer crap. If you truly want to spread Christmas cheer, get yourself a caroling book and a few friends and hit the streets. The only thing this film is good for is as a substitute for coal in a Christmas stocking. "},{"Title":"Definitely no stocking stuffer for your happy holiday!","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  One word FORGETTABLE! That's it! Its best use is a substitute for a lump of coal in your stocking! Angry Johnny would thank Santa for it, and because he's been a naughty boy all his life!  Don't let this be next year's X-mas present under your tree!!! "},{"Title":"WITHOUT A DOUBT THE WORST MOVIE EVER MADE!!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Santa With Muscles is an absolutely appalling film. It stars WCW wrestler Hulk Hogan who after getting amnesia thinks he is Santa Claus (like a grown man actually believes in Santa whether he has amnesia or not). He then goes onto beating the bad guys in typically corny Hulk Hogan fashion. I give it a 1/10 and that is being generous. "}{"Title":"Hulk Hogan. Magic rocks. Santa Claus. An orphanage.","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  we just rented it last night, and I'd have to say it deserves its high ranking. when we stopped by the rental place to pick it up after calling ahead, the entire staff wanted to meet us, they were all dying of laughter...apparently it hadn't been rented in 6 years.Anyway, the plot. Hulk Hogan is some rich guy that likes playing paintball. He beats some people up. while running from the police, he hits his head while wearing a Santa suit. So naturally, when he wakes up, he thinks he's santa.  Then he beats some more people up. He winds up at an church orphanage (which has a grand total of three kids) for some reason.  Some other bad guy wants the church orphanage destroyed, so Hulk Hogan beats up some henchmen.  So the kids take Hogan on a tour of the catacombs (and of course a California church would have catacombs).  while there, they discover a vault containing....glowing, magic rocks. It starts getting weird after that.The best joke of the night while watching the movie Can you imagine the writers' meeting while coming up with this plot? Writer 1 But WHY does the villain want to destroy the orphanage? pause Writer 2 Two words magic minerals. "},{"Title":"Santa, you sleigh me!","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" OK, this is probably the absolutely worst Christmas program ever! No, it is not as bad as Feeders 2 Slay Bells, but for a Christmas show it is pretty bad.Hulk Hogan may have been a good wrestler, but he certainly cannot act. Here he bumps his head and thinks he's Santa. He is up against a group of real clowns led by Ed Begley, Jr. Steve Valentine from Crossing Jordan and more Grade Z actors.The only redeeming performance was little Aria Noelle Curzon, who was nine at the time.Cross this one off your Christmas list. "},{"Title":"Downright horrible","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" The minutes spent watching this turkey is time that would be best spent shaving your head with a cheese grater while chewing on tin foil. Trustme when I say this activity would be far more enjoyable then watching Hulk Hogan and his buddies indulge themselves in this load of garbage. Hogans acting is terribly stiff and the script makes little or no sense. What orphanage has all but 3 children, a woman who oversees them, and GARRETT MORRIS, of SNL fame? Where is the logic in attacking someone with styrofoam candy canes? Since when can you hook a bumper of a fast moving vechicle with a chain, stop it and not rip off the bumper in the process? And watching Ed Leslie (Brutus the Barber Beefcake to all you WWF fans) as an oriental villain is not as funny as it sounds. All in all probably the worst Hogan movie of all time and that is not saying much. "},{"Title":"Watch out, he's got laughter and smiles!","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" He referring to Hulk Hogan, which I consider the America's Tor Johnson. Tor starred in many bad movies; so does Hulk. Both are very funny in each of their performances! In my opinion, Santa with Muscles is where all the fun and the laughs are! Hearing that Eegah-like Watch out, he's got a candy cane! makes me laugh until I cry! And I laugh so much, I cry until I can do neither of those things anymore! That's the secret recipe for a great family holiday film Laughs + Good Clean Family Fun (none of that Bad Santa stuff, please!) = The Best Holiday Family Film In The History Of The Universe! Let Santa with Muscles be the centerpiece of your entertainment next Christmas! "},{"Title":"The Christmas movie low.","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" The problem with Hulk Hogan as an actor is that, while he's not Brando, he has his moments where he's okay. That said, all he seems to lend his name to is rubbish children's movies. The only serious thing he seems to have done is Rocky III (you be the judge of how serious that is). This is the ultimate example of that children's movie crap. Hogan is a wealthy man who loses his memory and somehow thinks he is Santa. He is taken in by an orphanage, who are trying to stop some villain doing something. Seriously, that's how forgettable this film is. The acting is poor. Hulk manages to lay some cool smackdown, but then again, so does Jean Claude. The children are all that breed of little goof ball's trying to be cute. Ed Begley Jr is just unnecessary. Many people have a real hatred towards Christmas movies. Of course, they can't all be Bad Santa, the Santa Clause, The Nightmare Before Christmas or the all time great, It's A Wonderful Life. But this is just lazy. Considering Hogan's potential for cool, violent films, this just wastes the most awesome wrestler ever. Just like everything else. I can't give it a one, but it's certainly not worth a passing grade. It's just dosh. "},{"Title":"Silly but good for laughs","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" Although the movie is quite silly, it's great fun. Kids should love it. Parents don't have to worry about bad language. The plot is predictable ... well, with a few exceptions. You've got to love the secret that lies beneath the orphanage. Interestingly you'll see two folks from just a couple of years before they appeared on That Seventies Show. People that mention how some scenes don't make sense are totally missing the point - you're supposed to simply laugh at the bizarre plot. So, take a chill pill and just enjoy the antics. The villains are gloriously rotten. Robin Curtis was a surprise to see in a movie like this. All of the low ratings must be from folks that have never learned to laugh. "},{"Title":"Muscleheads","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" Santa with muscles is bad film but it is daft, unpretentious and strangely entertaining if watching around at Christmas. I was ill when I watched this and drugged up with flu meds which might explain why I have not given it a rock bottom rating.Hulk Hogan plays mean wealthy egoist health food tycoon Blake Thorne who ends up running from the cops after a awry paintball incident and hides out in a shopping mall while disguised as Santa. A head injury leaves him suffering from amnesia, an opportunistic elf convinces Blake that he is the real Santa. Blake starts doing good deeds and takes on a villain who wants to shut down an orphanage for some magic minerals.The film looks cheap, the story makes little sense such as why does no one recognise this rich tycoon acting as Santa but there is enough slapstick and bad puns to keep the little Hulksters happy. "},{"Title":"This is what naughty children get for Christmas - 4%","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" At the start of this month, I was wondering what exactly made a Christmas movie - thoughts prompted by finally watching the iconic It's A Wonderful Life. My conclusion, such as it was, was that it was the film's message that mattered and not fake snow and Father Christmas saving the day. So what then are we to make of a movie such as this which turns a fundamentally unlikeable twit into the most idiotic hero I've ever seen in any film. If IMDb is correct then this should be the worst movie I've ever seen, judging by its long stay in the notorious Bottom 100. It certainly makes a strong case as it's too stupid for any family to enjoy, devoid of any real charm and practically insults the viewer from the opening reel with cheap effects, pitiful performances throughout and a plot that even the screenwriter would deny any knowledge of.The plot, such as it is, revolves around self-centred multi-millionaire Blake Thorn (Hulk Hogan) who somehow amassed himself a fortune flogging various fitness products despite having few redeeming qualities and no apparent intelligence - he spends his free time beating up the small number of staff at his mansion and irking the police with Hummer-based paint-ball battles in the streets. After one such incident, Blake hides in the local mall from the police by disguising himself as a department store Santa. But after a convoluted series of events, he takes a blow to the head which causes amnesia severe enough to erase any memory of who he is. Persuaded by dodgy mall elf Lenny (Don Stark) that he is the real Santa, Blake decides to intervene on behalf of a struggling orphanage facing closure at the hands of resident baddie Ebner Frost (Ed Begley Jr) and his gang of goons.Santa With Muscles really is as dumb as its title, offering nothing in the way of entertainment, stimulation or anything beneficial to mankind in any way. From the opening title screen to the final shot, everything looks as though it was made as cheaply as possible and then budgeted even further. Hogan, who is actually quite a charismatic performer in the ring, is devoid of any charm whatsoever and goes through the motions like a South African sign language interpreter - looking good in theory but sorely lacking in practise. The rest of the cast are equally bad - Begley Jr is hardly a leading light in A-list cinema and judging by his performance here, its easy to see why. Meanwhile, even a pre-teen Mila Kunis fails to distract any attention from how truly dreadful the production is. If I was being charitable (and 'tis the season, as they say), I could say that they did the best job they could with the material and with the inept direction from John Murlowski whose other credits include Cop Dog and Zombie Hamlet. Nope, me neither.It really is one of those films where you wonder how it ever got from the page to the screen without someone somewhere raising the alarm. It even fails to provide anything about the message of Christmas, unless you include the exploitation of fairly serious head injuries for personal gain. Frankly, Santa With Muscles isn't just a slap in the face for Christmas movies or even so-called family movies - it's a straight-up insult to the movie-making industry as a whole. Here is a small group of writers, producers and actors who think that such mindless drivel counts as entertainment simply because your kids will be watching with you. If you want a family movie that won't end in a fight then may I suggest almost anything by Pixar - WALL·E is a monumentally brilliant picture which amuses and educates in equal measure. If you want a Christmas picture then stick with It's A Wonderful Life or even A Muppet's Christmas Carol if the kids are with you. And if you want to make sure that your family stay away from you this Christmas or at any other time of year then Santa With Muscles will do the trick. My only comfort I take from this experience is that there can't be much worse out there, at least if IMDb is correct. "},{"Title":"Just because  it's a kids film doesn't mean you can get away with poor quality.","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" This is actually not that bad. Don't get me wrong here, it is by no means a good movie but compare to some some of it's neighbors on the bottom #100 list, Santa with Muscles is pretty watchable. It has a consistent narrative, all be it an inane one. There are well defined characters, flat as cardboard they may be, but at least they act consistently throughout the film. And best of all, the humor comes naturally, the jokes don't feel as forced as they do in Epic Movie or other bad comedies. I have some nitpicks though. First, the bad guy is having people tortured in his back yard, how is he not in prison already? The henchmen destroy property, threaten people an nearly kill a guy, why does no one call the police? When trying to catch the hero for speeding, the police try to shoot him with a rocket launcher, why is internal affairs not there arresting these murderous coppers? Not to mention, why does the police even have a rocket launcher? Questions like this keep popping up but that just makes the film more entertainingNow, this a children's movie and as such less effort has gone into the details of making it, thus the plot is too simplistic, the characters, especially the bad guys are just ridiculous and the acting leaves a lot to ask. Given that there are good, well made children's films out there, having a younger audience is no excuse for making a bad film. Good enough for children maybe, but not good. "},{"Title":"Worse than an evening with bin Laden, Michael Jackson and Hitler.","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" What can really be said about a film like this?Well, let's start with a little background information about the leading man. Terry 'Hulk Hogan' Boella is the most selfish man in the wrestling business. He never put over anyone, he can't sell whatsoever and he tried to sabotage Bret Hart's career. He even disrespect Shawn Michaels - SHAWN FREAKING MICHAELS. The Heart-Break Kid! The Icon! The Showstoppa'! MR. WRESTLEMANIA!So when the Hulkster is tasked with playing an obnoxious, egotistical, vapid, sexually confused plutocrat it is by far the most convincing part of this abortion of a movie.He hires his buddy Ed Leslie to play an Asian doctor - correct, an EVIL Asian doctor. Ed Leslie, the man who couldn't get over playing a stripper/barber. Ed Leslie, the man who caused a terrorist scare when people mistook his COCAINE for anthrax. The fact that this man was in the wrestling business for so long is bad enough, but for the love of God and Scorsese, blacklist him from cinema!This movie is awful, truly awful in every way. You see, there's an orphanage and it's going to get blown up. And when the poor children need someone to rely on, who do they turn to? The cops? A responsible grown up? No, poor old steroid-addict Hulk Hogan. He rambles through the script like a diabetic monkey, delivering dialogue so hideous it would make Vince Price (God rest his soul) blanch.And then, at the end of the movie, this disturbed mental patient, makes a bunch of orphans live alone with him in his secluded mansion. Everything about this film is wrong, everything about this film should be buried in the Nevada desert alongside Jimmy Hoffa and those copies of the ET video game.Do not watch this movie. No, not even if you are told to do so by your Mother on her death bed. This is tripe of the highest order and will actually make you question your sexual orientation. At one part, Hogan begins wearing a fetish Santa suit complete with tight leather boots and an S&M belt. I wish I was making this up.Please, just let this film die a slow and painful death. "}{"Title":"Christmas Turkey with All the Trimming!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  `Santa with Muscles' is exceeded only in sheer awfulness by the 1962 Mexican film Santa Claus for the honor of Worst Holiday Movie of All Time.  The title is fitting, seeing as the scriptwriters have brains denser than Hogan's muscles.  Hogan plays an egomaniac (not far off from his reputation amongst wrestling insiders) millionaire who markets workout products. Through some agonizingly convoluted plot devices (and calling them plot devices is generous), he gets amnesia and thinks he is Santa Claus. Mayhem ensues with evil samurai wanna-be's, evil elf wanna-be's, evil Ed Beagly Jr. wanna-be's (wait, that IS Ed Beagly Jr.), an orphanage with no orphans, exploding crystals that don't explode, and Garret Morris thrown in for good measure.  If you want a movie that you can comprehend, go rent Eraserhead. If you want a movie that will make you laugh, go rent Isthar.  But if you want to stage a screening of the all-time worst Christmas films, rent Santa with Muscles.  And get the above-mentioned Santa Claus movie, and also that other really bad one with Dudley Moore.  You are guaranteed to clear unwanted holiday guests. "},{"Title":"Poor Don Stark","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Don Stark (Donna's dad from That 70's show) must have really needed the work.  He had to wear a bunny suit AND an elf suit.  Poor guy.  Why the hell was the tail of that bunny suit in the shape of a furry dildo?  Was that Hogan's idea?  Geez.  Too bad MST3K couldn't have done this big pile of crap of a movie. "},{"Title":"Worst film ever","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the worst films I have ever seen. The storyline made no sense at all, and the acting was terrible. I hope that no one ever has to go through the pain I did by watching it. I saw it on the TNT network late one night, so I am thankful that the youth of America wasn't forced to watch, at least that time. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie last year on TV, and I had to turn it off.  I rarely turn off movies, especially movies on TV (because the only time I watch TV is when I'm bored.)  This is the absolute worst movie I've ever seen.  I've made better movies when I was in grade school.  As a yet unknown independent film maker myself I wonder how you were ever known as a filmmaker.  I apologize for writing this as harshly as I did, but I can't stand bad movies.  It's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"MERRY CHRISTMAS, SANTA!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Please, please watch this film. It is a delightful romp in the true spirit of Christmas, and will make you laugh, and then cry, and then we'll grow old together. Really! Well, sort of. You'll laugh long and hard at how bad this movie is. You'll cry...when you try to comprehend how this movie was made. And it does feel like many years before the movie ends. The plot, if one can call it that, is thin to say the least. Basically, Hulk is Blake Thorne, evil exercise guru (not quite as evil an exercise guru as Ben Stiller's Tony Perkis character in Heavyweights, but evil nonetheless) and the richest man in four states (He's in California, so he must be quite the wealthy guy).  His leisure activities include enraging the police, who for some odd reason have missile launchers (oh, wait, I forgot..we're in California). In the midst of his hijinks, he gets a knock on the ol' noggin, and BAM! Santa with Muscles is born. Comic hilarity ensues as he turns good, saves Christmas, and all that jazz. Most of the movie is taken up by his attempts to save an orphanage swarming with as many as three children from evil industrialist and germophobe Ebner Ebby Frost (Ed Begley, Jr. in a career low). Frost has a team of rogue scientists who menace the kids...they all have crazy schticks, like using stink gas, having electro-gloves, or being a geologist (Aaah! He's got some pahoehoe!) The geologist, Dr. Flint, IS Anthony Edwards. People will say he's not, he's not credited as such (supposedly he's played by Kevin West), but just take a look at 'im...they're the same guy! The main kooky evil scientist, Dr. Vile, is a perpetual delight. His utterance of Merry Christmas, Santa is a national treasure! Anyway, as far as the plot is concerned, there are some further knocks on the heads, plentiful one-liners from those adorable orphaned whippersnappers, and something involving crystals that makes absolutely no sense whatsoever and has zero scientific background. Basically, it was just a bunch of stuff that happened...although the writers taunt the audience at times with completely unnecessary plot twists. SPOILER AHEAD! PLEASE, DO NOT GIVE AWAY THE INCREDIBLE SECRET OF SANTA WITH MUSCLES.It turns out Blake (Santa) and Ebby Frost both went to the orphanage and were best friends for their entire formative years! And both amazingly forgot this fact completely when they grew up! Perhaps more knocks on the heads were involved, possibly on the part of the writers of this movie! Movies of this caliber are hard to come by, so go out and see it today! You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Only in a movie this awful...","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" ...could you find a wrestler playing a millionaire who thinks he's Santa Claus sword fighting a guy in an astronaut suit with a crystal broken off from a mine underneath a church. When you have that picture in your mind, you've already seen the only part of this movie worth watching, if you can even call it that.Don't watch this movie.Don't rent this movie.Don't stay on the channel on which this movie is playing.Forget this movie exists.If you must see it, make sure you are compensated financially for your trouble. If you can avoid seeing it, AVOID IT.You'll be doing your brain a favor. "},{"Title":"not that bad.","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" I thought that this was actually one of HOGANS better movies. It seems like every time HOGAN comes out with a new movie, no matter what kind of movie it is, before people even watch the movie they are all ready to put it down without even giving it a chance. Most of HOGANS movies are not meant to win any awards as much as they are just meant to be good clean family comedy's.This is a movie that i try to watch at least once or twice during the Christmas season. With wrestling and making movies having a lot in common I think if HOGAN wanted to he could be a better actor if he wanted to, but I believe he goes into these movies just to have fun and make some kids happy. "},{"Title":"Do  not even bother","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" It's a simply awful movie, I caught on TV recently and I felt compelled to switch the channel after watching 20 minutes of it, Hogan is a terrible actor and whoever wrote this film should be expelled from their union or whatever they have... The Storyline of the movie is incomprehensible and is hard to follow by anyone that is older than 12...My sister didn't seem to mind it though... A terrible movie, I have seen all of Hogan's films and he has not been able to come up with a decent effort in any of his movies, If you Hogan as a main actor in a movie, just stay away from it and you'll be better for doing so. I couldn't believe my eyes and ears on how bad this is. "},{"Title":"A pleasant Christmas film","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" Encouraged by the scathing reviews of this film, a friend of mine bought the DVD of this film, having it posted from Australia. Having subsequently borrowed and watched it, I must say that it is not worth buying, but it is very well suited for Christmas broadcast. The plot is thin and predictable but also cheerful and uplifting, although there are several strange twists at the finish, and the plot holes are just explained away by... well, what we assume is magic or psychic ability. The jokes are terrible, but the acting is of acceptable quality, especially the two central characters, Blake and Elizabeth.No, it's not a film you should show people if you want to keep them as friends. No, it's not worth ever watching again. But for what it is, a cheap and cheesy child-suitable action flick, it works well. Overall, I rate this film a 6. "},{"Title":"Not suitable for children...","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Or adults- yes, it's that bad!While not as funny as Plan 9 From Outer Space, it is funny for the same reason; it is bad. It is amazing what film makers think people will like. It is possible to make a slapstick kids movie which is good! Home Alone for instance.An example of how stupid this movie is, is when the Hulk opens a door, which in turns knocks down a baddy. The baddy got knocked out and we never see him again (I think the door killed him). The channel which plays this in Australia plays it at midday around Christmas every single year. I'd known about it for ages, from wrestlecrap.com, and last year decided I would watch it. I didn't regret it- it was hilarious.So, in conclusion,  I am going to contradict my One Line Summary and first few lines of my review, and tell you to watch this movie. You may love it, you may hate it, I don't really care either way. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  What a great flick! OK, it's not going to win any Academy Awards..or even a Cable Ace...but this was a fun little popcorn flick...Come on, did expect anything more from Hulk Hogan? Despite previous comments, this was not as bad as Mr Nanny..and hey, Clint Howard in ANY movie makes it a classic! )Good, mindless FAMILY fun. Amazing in this day and age..a movie I can actually let my children watch! "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" Lots of people write bad things about this film, if your looking for a serious plot, deep characters or a well developed story line then jog on. The film is supposed to be silly, so if you allow it to be silly then its quite funny in places. The idea of the film is daft and as you may expect from Hulk Hogan its very over the top. Most of the villains in the film make no sense and are just funny to watch each one has their crazy special power, all of which are just weird.This film is great if you just want to turn you mind off and laugh at something silly. I really don't understand all the negative reviews, the film is not trying to be a work of art, its trying to be silly and funny, it does these very well. "},{"Title":"To those who wonder why Hulk Hogan's acting career never got off the ground...watch Santa with Muscles.","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" You know that a movie is really bad when it makes you feel psychically ill. This for me was really the case with Santa with Muscles. It's amazing how many bad Christmas/Santa Claus movies for kids are around. But this movie is even below the normal level of Santa Claus movies, that are made for kids.It's very obviously a movie that got aimed toward young children but just because it's a kids movie doesn't mean it can get away just with everything. But also on top of that; I really can't see how kids could ever enjoy watching this movie. It really isn't that entertaining or humorous to watch because of some serious bad writing. If I had seen this movie as kid it probably wouldn't had annoyed me as much as it did now but I probably would still had been bored out of my skull while watching it.I don't even know what this movie is supposed to be all about. It's such an huge mess to watch and it feels like the script got put together from a couple of other different Santa Claus scripts they had floating around somewhere in a dark corner. The movie too often doesn't make sense and it's a very inconsistent one to watch, since the story jumps all over the place and doesn't seem to know what it wants. What the story is also lacking is a good Christmas message in it. This movie has absolutely none and isn't even about the Christmas spirit at all. Who wants to watch a Santa Claus movie that isn't even somewhat remotely Christmas related.It always has been sort of a mystery as to why Hulk Hogan's acting career never took off. He had the right looks and charisma and was and still is incredibly popular and well known, all over the world, due to his wrestling career. And hey, if Dwayne Johnson and Arnold Schwarzenegger have a big acting career, with similar backgrounds, than why couldn't he? The answer is in movies like this. He made some bad choices with his picks for movies and the highlights of his acting career are cameos in some well known movies, in which he only spoofs himself. So Hulk Hogan doesn't impress much with this movie but so does nobody else in this. The movie made some weird casting choices, by making Steve Valentine and Ed Begley Jr. the main villains. When you have Hulk Hogan as your main hero, you need a strong and way more threatening villain opposing him, not two lab-geeks. It still gets points for having Clint Howard and a very young Mila Kunis in it though.What also puzzles me is if this is supposed to be a Christmas movie than why does this movie look all the time like it got shot in the middle of the summer? Couldn't they at least somewhat tried to fake it.To be honest, I don't think I'll ever put this movie on any of my worst movie lists but that is simply because I have seen so many bad movies, that are even in one way or another worse than this one. But of course that really doesn't make Santa with Muscles somewhat of a good or a remotely entertaining watch. Just avoid, it's not even watchable for its cult-value.3/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not Quite a Holiday Classic","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  While I am a fan of wrestling and Hulk Hogan, I am not a fan of his movies. Especially this one.  Hogan has made a whole line of movies and none of them are worth seeing once.  I would not recommend this movie to anyone, adults, children, even that guy who dresses up like Hulk hogan at live events. Don't put this in a stocking and don't put it under the tree this Christmas. "},{"Title":"Heart-warming - even it if stretches credibility","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was somewhat hard to believe - because as the title would imply, the Santa in this picture has MUSCLES!  You don't have to be a space scientist to know that Santa DOES NOT have muscles.  In fact, it's quite the opposite.  Santa is FAT.  You can't be FAT and STRONG at the same time.  I mean, come on! But, if you can get past that glaring problem you'll find a magical little movie about wrapping paper, fuzzy red costumes and guys with muscles. Great, dude!  A holiday FAMILY FAVORITE in my household. Again, we find the Hulkster addressing his favorite theme - helping children in need.  Way to go, Hulk!  If more people cared as much as you do, this world would be a rounder place.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood Hogan rocks!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie rocks! This is the single greatest movie ever made, i think it's better than the godfather, taxi driver, raging bull and star wars put together!It tells the story of a man on death row, and is acted superbly by a truely excellent cast. Each performance is worthy of an academy award. How charlie sheen's excellent cameo did not earn him the best supporting actor oscar, is both beyond comprehension, and frankly, criminal. With his Hitchcock-esque directorial debut, Michaels has created a truely wonderful, gritty suspense thriller with must surely go down as an all time cinema great.Credit must again go to Charlie Sheen for a truely remarkable performance, which shows him as a man of great strength, but also his vulnerable side. I can't imagine any other actor being able to play Cop#2, as it would appear it is the role Sheen was born to play.Martin Sheen is also excellent as the leads father, and gives a performance so moving i was almost in tears watching it.The movie as a whole is excellent, i would highly recommend everyone buys it.I award this movie 10/10, it is the best movie ever made. EVER!  "},{"Title":"...","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  My God.  This is the worst film I've ever seen, and ladies and gentlemen, I've seen Mr. Nanny.This is just... awful.  I swear, you'd be better off spending the money you'd spend buying or renting this on chains, to chain yourself up in your basement, where the horrifying awfulness of this awful movie can never get you. "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly Hulk Hogan's Finest Acting Role to Date!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Words have not been created to describe the horror which just transpired on my television. My VCR almost didn't want to play the movie; that should have given me a hint of what was to come. The movie starts out with Hulk's charactor in a workout with his servants attempting to beat him up. This was the ONLY beliveable part of the movie! Hulk is a rich snob who couldn't care less about real people's problems, only how well his products were selling (his name/face is on everything from cereal to ladies undergarments, I would imagine).During a 'rousing' game of paintball, a cop attempts to pull the Hulkster over, but he won't surrender. Instead, they go for a chase through the town where he grew up. He bails out of the hummer and runs into the local mall. He puts on a santa suit and ends up falling down the garbage shoot, hits his head on something hard, and he has temporary amnesia. The lead elve at the mall, who is debt for something (we never are really told why), finds the man with the largest pythons in pro-sports and convinces him he is santa.After a few kids sit on the American hero's lap, he notices that 2 nogoodniks are stealing money from the orphange fund, so he gets up and kicks the tar out of them. He then is drawn to the orphange mysteriously to help them out. It seems a bad guy (named frost... I mean c'mon...geez) has bought out most of the area and now the orphange is next...Summerizing the next few hours really doesn't do anyone any good. Seeing the movie is the only way to really understand it. The only thing I can say is that watching this movie should be mandatory for all those wishing to gain citizenship to the US. If you enjoy bad/horribe/deplorable movies that should be on MST3K, this is your goldmine. I recommend Mr. Nanny, Battlefield Earth, and Class of Nukem High (which, coincidentaly, I saw in the same night). "},{"Title":"If you enjoy more traditional holiday films then this is definitely not for you","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Santa With Muscles was released in 1996, much to the delight of Hulk Hogan fans and to the horror of moviegoers with any taste. To describe this film as lame is an understatement but if you add useless and sad to that description, you have almost hit the nail on the head.This is my submission to the Kill Me Now write-off hosted by Kris-Kochanski and Dantesguide. The idea behind the write-off is for people to be paired up with a partner and select a film for that partner to view that you consider to be one of the worst films of all times. My partner, Destinys-Child, thought it would be amusing to subject me to 96 minutes of Hulk Hogan's pathetic attempts at acting and so it was. Little did Destinys-Child know that I like crappy films and this definitely fit the bill.Santa With Muscles doesn't even come close to being as good as 'Jingle All The Way', which was also released in 1996 and starred Arnold Schwartzenegger. Apparently 1996 was a year that filmmakers decided audiences were desperate for films with muscle bound macho men displaying their holiday spirit.Millionaire Blake Thorne (Hulk Hogan), who spends his spare time playing militant style games to keep fit, is a mean spirited little rascal that takes great pleasure in belittling his staff and torturing his housekeepers by including them in his twisted fitness games. It is my assumption that the writers wanted Hogan's character to be similar to Scrooge.Blake has made his fortune selling health products -big surprise right? When one of Blake's rousing games (this time paintball) gets out of hand, the police are summoned and he flees with the cops hot on his tail. These are cops that went to the Keystone Cops academy and what crappy film would be complete without an appearance by none other than Clint Howard, Ron's younger, uglier, and talent impaired brother, who portrays police officer Hinkley. In an effort to avoid the cops, Blake ducks into the local shopping mall and decides to throw on a Santa. Smart thinking hot shot! That makes perfect sense -I mean afterall, that fifty dollars in bail would have been hard to scrape up what with all those millions of dollars.Okay, so Blake is putting on the Santa suit and whacks his head, causing him to forget that he is the rich vitamin pusher but instead thinks he is Santa Claus. His first task as Santa was to foil a robbery inside the mall when thieves attempt to steal monies that were donated to a local orphanage. Santa Blake is a big hit with the orphanage owner, Leslie (Robin Curtis), and along with his elf sidekick, Lenny (Don Stark), they make accept her invitation to visit. The sly Lenny has his own plan in mind and that includes taking advantage of the amnesia ridden Blake by getting his hooks into all of his money. Will he succeed?Blake learns that Ebner Frost (Ed Begley Jr.) wants to take over the orphanage and benefit from a cave full of valuable crystals on the property. Santa Blake, along with the Leslie, the children, sidekick Lenny, and the orphanage caretaker Clayton (Garrett Morris - Saturday Night Live) decide to battle the evil Frost to save the orphanage. But will they win or will Lenny join the evil Frost and foil the plan?For the ending to this non-award winning movie, you will just have to head to your local rental store or used video shop to get a copy. I don't think I would be spoiling it for you if I shared that the movie of course has a happy ending with the good guys winning but you expected that right?If you enjoy more traditional holiday films then this is definitely not for you. But if you prefer a Springer style Christmas then run don't walk to your nearest video store. What other holiday movie can you think of that includes a California style Christmas complete with a Santa dressed in a sleeveless suit and sporting leather gloves? Not to mention all the physical violence (slapstick style) that they toss in just for good measure.  "},{"Title":"A fun, cute movie","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  SANTA WITH MUSCLES, was far better than its big budgeted competitor, > JINGLE ALL THE WAY, but unfortunately did not open widely. The three > kid actors were very good, and Don Stark was lovable as the elf Lenny. It is > good hearted fun, with a happy ending that the whole family can enjoy. It definitely did not get the attention and kudos it deserved. The bad guys are funny, the kids lovable. I suggest that you rent or buy a copy at Christmas because your kids will really enjoy it.  "}{"Title":"Best, Movie, Ever.","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" Well now, this was probably one of the most fantastic pieces of movie literature to ever be produced within this day and age of cinematography Hulk Hogan is the greatest actor of all time, and he is also, the greatest wrestler to ever, take foot within the wrestling ring.Now, I am a hulkamaniac.Best movie ever Best movie ever Best movie ever.10/10bNothing beats seeing a movie about Santa, with fight scenes, thieves trying to steal crystals from an orphanage with Hulk Hogan, the man with a plan, coming in and desecrating the enemies ! pewpew ! "},{"Title":"A bit of Christmas Warmth.....some reviewers should get a life","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not perfect, but it flows, is warm and funny and definitely has talented folks as well as being a happy ending movie in a world full of negative slasher flicks so I really do not know what the problem is with some of these reviewers. People in the UK and Australia especially... do you have nothing else to do there but sit around and pan movies in the most insulting way possible? Does it make you feel powerful and purposeful to try and be pithy and witty when you blast the hard work of others? Clearly your attempts at total blasting of this film is a case of those that can, do, and those that can't, review. I am sure you get a kick out of doing this to most films you see, but you miss the mark. GET A LIFE!!! No one is forcing you to watch any film, so if you don't like this film move on. There is a LOT of talent in this film although maybe they did not have much to work with within the scope of the film. This flick's kids for example have all been successful (Mila Kunis of course on That 70's show with Santa co-star Don Stark) Adam Wylie has starred on Broadway in Into The Woods and is guest starring on everything. Aria Curzon was on Without a Trace on Christmas day and I have seen her in a lot of things as well. All talented. Same with adults...all working much of the time, Steve Valentine I see all over for example. Like I said, this film may not be perfect but it is a cute family film with a silly but fun storyline and it is a heartwarming zany comedy that really is ok for kids. No bad language in it and though a tad violent in moments, it is still not gratuitous or graphic, and there are good life messages to take from the film. Cute warm holiday movie. Rent it for your kidlets. If you are a kind hearted person who likes happy endings and a bit of silly humor you will giggle and enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"This isn't as bad as I thought. Actually it is great.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  I started to watch this movie with incredibly low expectations but I  was pleasantly surprised. It had a poignant quality about it, the directing was subtle and the script was perfectly orchastrated. I decided not to anaylse the more critical elements and I really loved it. Hulk Hogan is surpisingly good and I am astonished that he is so underused. His comic timing is near perfect. I laughed so much while watching this movie that I almost relieved myself on the couch to avoid missing it. I recomended it to people who aren't critics. It's not Citizen Kane but my god is it close.  "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  I do not care what people say this was a good movie.I saw it a year ago near Christmas and now have been watching it year after year.alright so it might be full of bad acting and some parts are really dumb but i really liked it.   "},{"Title":"Unbelievably GREAT","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie must be seen to be believed. It is truly an experience that I cannot put into words, so I won't even try. The acting is adequate and Hogan proves once again why he is one of the biggest stars in the world. This is a movie that can be enjoyed by young and old alike. Truly entertaining. "},{"Title":"A Jolly Good Time!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This film was one of the most underrated kid flicks of it's time. Unfortunately it came out at the same time as Jingle All the Way so it did not get the proper attention it deserved. Watch for Santa with Muscles on Ted Turner's channels at the Holiday Season. It is available for sale various places online as well. This film is a lighthearted sweet feel good film with zany antagonist characters, great sight gags, and a happy ending that would delight little kids and adults as well. It is a good film to catch Mila Kunis, Adam Wylie and Aria Noelle Curzon in as youngsters as they have all gone on to bigger projects in their careers. Ed Begley Jr., Steve Valentine, Don Stark, Robin Curtis and Garrett Morris all give fun quirky performances that will keep you laughing and feeling like it it Christmas all year round.   "},{"Title":"The Hulk should stick to the commercials","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  What can one say about a Christmas movie that is so incredibly bad, that it makes you want to jam a candy cane strait into your eye, just so you can forget the past 90 minutes of your life, and be spared the pure torture that is, Santa With Muscles...For starters, this movie's plot is so down right retarded. Thinking that he is Santa Clause due to a head injury has motivated him to rescue a orphanage with only three kids, and a secret stash of magic minerals in it. Has Hulk Hogan's career really been so bad that he has brought himself to make movies such as this and 3 Ninjas Showdown At Mega Mountian??...Hulk should either get a new agent or stick to the 1-800-COLLECT commercials that have brought him back into the lime light one last time, then threw him back into the ever-popular World Wrestling Federation.  "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad, awful film...","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is THE worst movie EVER! Even  Ed Wood would have dumped this turkey. Did they scour the earth for the most untalented children ever? This is so awful I couldn't turn it off, and I've seen it five times now. Bad, bad film...Watch it and enjoy... "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  If you think that Hulk Hogan's acting is bad as a wrestler, wait till you see this movie!!! Then again, if you have a brain, you WON'T be seeing this movie!  Not surprisingly, the two gentlemen that wrote the screenplay for this movie do not have any other movies to their credit.  ONLY ONLY ONLY see this movie if you have too much time on your hands! "},{"Title":"How Sad","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Just a sad day when a movie of this caliber is released.  I generally like movies with Hogan in them and I am a fan of the great work of Ed Leslie but this was very painful to watch.  The plot was weak and clearly designed for only the youngest and most uneducated of movie-watchers. "}{"Title":"HORRIBLE","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Hogan has beaten his previous worst, Mr Nanny, with this AWFUL film!  Use it as revenge on your aunt for giving you that AWFUL lime green sweater at Christmas!!  If you find it in the bargain bin at Wal Mart, go ahead and buy it and use it to PUNISH YOUR CHILDREN for not cleaning their room or eating all their dinner.  Hogan's worst film by far (shocker eh?) "},{"Title":"Avoid like the plague","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is some sort of punishment for all the sins of mankind. There is no way a movie like this should even be considered for production. Any other moive I could see at least a premise that sounds sensible, but there is no kind of justification for this horribly horrible movie. "},{"Title":"A horrid movie wrestlers shouldn't act","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  wrestlers shouldn't act this has been proven over and over again.  Think of Mr.Nanny or No Holds Barred.  Stone Cold steve Austin on Nash Bridges don't even get me started on that show or Chyna on 3rd rock from the sun.  It's all horrible why do sports stars all of a sudden think they can act.  HAS THE WORLD GONE MAD!!!! "},{"Title":"its craptastic","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  when he gets into his custom made santa costume, he looks like a village people reject.  at the beginning when he his training he gets attacked by a weed eater and fights back with dishware!!!!! with dishware!!!! i mean come on. "},{"Title":"this movie sucks","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  this is probably the lowest of the low points in hogan's long history of low points.(mr.nanny, i wanna be a hulkamaniac, and soo many more.) i was mad at my friend, who told me to see this movie. It's not even bad/funny. it's just bad/awful. i have so many complaints about this movie. like, why does  the richest man in 10 states only help 3 kids, (and garret morris) when like 20,000 kids die everyday in 3rd world countries. Hogan can't act either.  "},{"Title":"beyond bad and into the mediocrity beyond","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  One of the worst things I've ever had to sit through in my life. Terrible acting, terrible storyline, terrible everything. Even though it's a kid's movie, I wouldn't let my child near anything this no-brained and inept. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie!  Bad!  Bad!!  Bad!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Alright, let's go over a summary of the movie Take a wrestler who is well beyond in his prime, stick him in a movie that makes little sense as it is, and proceed to wreck the wonderfulness of Santa Claus.  Yep, that pretty much sums up a movie that makes little sense and has holes in the plot so incredibly huge that an out of control mack truck could safely go through it.  This is possibly the worst movie EVER.  If you actually make it all the way through this movie without doing anything horrible to yourself or others during or afterwards, you can pretty much survive any form of torture out there.  Stay away from this movie at all costs!!!!!! "},{"Title":"The acting is HORRIBLE!","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  I can pick some decent stuff out of the movie. Its about Christmas and good guys winning which is fine with me but I am rating the movie on the scale for its acting and watchability(if thats even a word). First of all, anything that stars the Hulkster needs to be given a warning label regarding bomb probability. Secondly, a movie needs a plot. Some plot. Any plot! I've seen better plots from a 3rd grade math class. (cheesy joke, but not nearly as cheesy as Hogan's) Even a 3rd grader wouldn't believe the things that take place in this movie. The saddest part is that respectable actors like Garrett Morris and Ed Begley Jr actually allowed themselves to be placed in this stinkers credit list. Warning Anyone who was in this movie, leave it off of your resume if you intend to work in anything legitimate for the rest of your career. A rating of one is generous b/c there was no zero. One good thing is that you will once again realize just how good all the other Christmas movies are compared to this stink-fest.Don't waste your time with this one. Enjoy A Christmas Story or Its A Wonderful Life and you will have a much merrier Christmas. "},{"Title":"A REALLY bad Hulk Hogan film!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  If you thought that No Holds Barred, Suburban Commando, Mr. Nanny, and Three Ninja's Assault on Devil's Island were bad , you should take a look at this poorly written, poorly acted, and poorly directed excuse for a film. It makes Hogan's work in Rocky III look like an Academy Award winning performance, and no, I'm not kidding! "},{"Title":"Wrestlecrap was right","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is even worse than Suburban Commando or Mr.Nanny. What runs through the mind of Hulk Hogan when he reads a script this bad? Probably dollar signs. Far worse than wrestlecrap.com made it out to be. Stay away! If someone wants to rent this movie, turn and run like your life depended on it...because it probably does.  "}{"Title":"Horrifying and it ain't a SCARY MOVIE!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe this was actually a movie. For God's Sake, my High School class and put a better show then this. Thank God Hulk Hogan ain't wrestling cause he acts better then he wrestle's and by the showing of the movie, he sucks at both! "},{"Title":"Mind-numbing torture...","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Those are the only words I think can truly describe this monstrosity of a movie starring Hulk Hogan. The pain of which I endured watching it, in the movie's entirety, is mind-boggling.What can be said, on top of the terrible acting that we've all come to know Hulk Hogan for on the silver-screen and in the ring, the writing is absolute garbage. I could have written better stuff than this pile of schlock when I was in grade school.If there ever was an argument for censorship in the USA, this film would be the nail in the coffin that condemned movies for good.A warning for all, don't ever view this movie. "},{"Title":"Ho Ho NO!!!!","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is without doubt, the most innane, painful, and anti-humorous comedy ever made. Hulk Hogan makes Ernest (God Bless Jim Varney's soul) look like an Academy Award winner.There's so much wrong with this film I don't know where to begin. You've got Santa (who has amnesia) fighting baddies with styrofoam candy canes, an evil elf named Lenny, a bunch of incredibly annoying kids, and one liners that would make Ah-nold wince (Santa, you sleigh me!).Sound terrible? It is! "},{"Title":"Evil, evil, evil!","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" Hulk Hogan and movies. We can only hope the two will never be united again as they were in this travesty of cinema. Truly the essence of wrestlecrap was distilled to make this movie. I mean a robotic santa? Whose idea was that? Why was this movie made? Did anyone even go to see it? And what the heck are exploding crystals supposed to be? A kid says she had heard of them before from a book. I think she had confused science fiction with geology there! Was Hulk hogan ever in a none-dreadful movie role? Answers on a post card please. Kill this movie! Burn it! Destroy it! Let no copies live! I am reliably informed that if they ever make a sequel to this film it is the last of the signals that Armageddon has started. And if it isn't it ought to be! Please note that though I labeled my review as containing a spoiler, nothing could spoil a movie this bad, so don't let it worry you. "},{"Title":"Evil Millionaire Santa","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" This movie is a piece of no good stinky trash and Hulk Hogan can do better than this mess of a movie. I did not it because it is not realistic. I really don't anything more to say about the film but I need 10 lines of stuff to put on this damn thing so I will keep writing crap until I get to 10 lines and then I will be finished with this mess. Oh man I gotta keep writing to get to ten lines man. Oh the humanity, I have to keep writing on this mess some more. Hulk Hogan needs to Know His Role and Shut His Mouth when tries to explain this movie to people. when you see it, you will know how bad this thing truly is man. Unbelievable. I still don't have 10 lines of stuff to put on this thing. What in thee HELL son, this is terrible, horrible. "},{"Title":"'Tis the season to throw this out the window.","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  The only thing I though when I watched this movie was 'Mary Mother of God make it stop!!!It was 80-some minutes I will never get back.. horrible movie.. horrible. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  I looked in the TV guide this morning too see the midday movie was 'Santa with Muscles'. Being it a stifeling hot day here in Australia (Yes, Christmas here is like spending the whole festive season in the oven with the Turkey), I decided to spend the day at home inside in air conditioned comfort. I read the review in the TV guide and it said that Santa with Muscles was 'The worst Christmas movie ever made'. I watched the first 10 minutes of it, had no idea what was going on, and was instantly bored. So I stuck in a tape of the classic aussie film 'The Castle' that I had taped earlier to pass the time.  I was not going to stick around for this excuse for a film. It amazes me that the world struggles to have money for education and basic community improvements, let alone the third world countries, yet somehow has enough money for production staff, camera equipment, casting, make-up, release costs and all the other high cost finances to make trash like this film. Why didn't the offending network put on an enjoyable Christmas film for Aussie audiences this afternoon? Everyone would of been at home in front of the TV to escape the heat today! How about that classic Lenny henry film 'Bernard and The Genie' which has not been screened here since 1992? Anything beats 'Santa with Muscles'!! "},{"Title":"What the Hell was this?","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" Santa With Muscles is supposed to be a comedy, I guess, but it really doesn't bring the laughs at all. You don't find yourself laughing with the movie, but instead laughing at it and how incredibly cheesy it is. Hulk Hogan really needed to take his name off the project, because it would've done him a lot of good in his shortly lived acting career. I don't even get the plot to all of this, he is a millionaire that thinks he's Santa Claus, wow a preschooler could come up with that idea and make this whole movie look a lot better in the process. I am not bashing Hogan, because I did like him as a wrestler but as an actor the stuff he has done has really sucked. This belongs on the bottom 100.1/10 "},{"Title":"HOPE SPRINGS ETERNAL","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Hope you ask ? how did i get hope from 97 minutes of pure embarrassment for the once mighty Hulk Hogan. This film is atrocious to watch so just think how bad it would be to read. Well some producer read it and funded it too. I am going to track down this producer with some of my film ideas such as Road Rage in Toyland or perhaps even a remake of The Eye Creatures i'm sure he'd go for them because they surely can't be worse than this. "},{"Title":"The Grinch did not steal Christmas...this film did!","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":" If ever there was a family holiday film that could kill the holiday spirit, this film is it. It makes Jingle All the Way and even Santa Claus Conquers the Martians seem GOOD in comparison! And, if you ever meet anyone who hates Christmas, chances are that they saw this film! This movie is a cloying, annoying dud...the sort of contrived mess of a film that makes you want to tell Hollywood to STOP making holiday movies if this is the sort of crap they think the public could want! The film begins with Hulk Hogan playing some sort of combination rich guy, superhero, GI Joe wannabe and ninja. I am glad that his impressions of himself and his abilities are not in any way over-ambitious or egocentric! In a stupid freak accident, the Hulkster now thinks he's Santa and comes to the aid...I kid you not...of a home for orphans!! Folks, it just doesn't get any worse than this--or does it?! Well, in fact it does. You see, the evil man behind this is, naturally, Ed Begley, Jr. and I assume he wanted this property to build an electric car dealership. But, in a bizarre twist, it's to get a whole bunch of neon-like power crystals hidden in an underground vault! Say what?!?!? Begley's crew of evil villains look like the sort of baddies that might attack Barney the dinosaur. They are all really, really lame and are about as threatening as a mild case of dandruff. And, it's up to Hulk to kick some butt (wow, not a tough thing in this case), win the hearts of a whole bunch of cute moppets AND manage to make a family-friendly movie that involves lots of punching, kicking and other forms of violence! The film has absolutely nothing going for it other than Hogan's massive ego. The acting is crap, the script is crap, the action is crap and there is nothing...I repeat, NOTHING of any value to this steaming pile of....movie. What makes it worse is the 'surprise' twist concerning the villain and Hulk's childhood--which, oddly, neither seemed to remember! Sadly, anyone seeing this turkey of a film will not have the same thing occur--they'll never forget having wasted nearly an hour and a half on this snot-fest. This film easily deserves to be on IMDb's Bottom 100 list, as it's the worst vanity project I've seen in ages--and a family film which is too violent and stupid for kids and just about impossible for any adult to sit through without massive amounts of liquor.My favorite part of the film? Towards the end, one of the lame villains yells It's gonna blow!!. He couldn't have been more right, though he probably should have said this at the beginning in order to warn people what they were in for seeing! I think I'd have rather seen Chitty, Chitty Bang, Bang, The Adventures of Pippi Longstocking or even Son of the Mask instead of this movie--it was that bad!By the way, there is a worse Christmas film. The 1959 Mexican film Santa Claus is in the Bottom 100 as well and it is light-years worse! But, for a big-budget Hollywood Christmas story, Santa With Muscles takes the prize! "}{"Title":"Santa Without Talent","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy","Review":"  Okay.... umm... okay.  I-- noooo.. I ... Okay, I-- I really, really, REALLY can't find the words to describe the..... UTTER HORRIBLENESS of this movie. It shouldn't even be called a film.  I hate to say this... but Ed Begley Jr. and even CLINT HOWARD should have looked at this script and said This is crap. and threw it in the garbage.  It's a worthless Look at me, I'm Hulk Hogan and I'm tan and strong-- not OLD movie.You'll have more fun juggling your eyeballs than watching Santa With Muscles.  This movie makes Manos The Hands of Fate look like a Spielberg epic. "}]