[{"Title":"A sleeper!","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fast-moving and nimble comedy with witty dialogue, an intelligent script, well-developed characters and a credible ethnic ethos. It's unpretentious and amiable, yet truly acerbic when it needs to be. The acting is mostly first-rate.Well done, Burns!(I guess all of this will make the delayed-maturity stratum of movie fans truly averse to this movie...) "},{"Title":"More than your average Romantic Comedy","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure why I've rented this film 3 times in the last couple of years. The characters are well developed, Tom Petty's sound track is very good and there are the gorgeous gals of course (Diaz, Anniston, Bahns), but there's more to it. This is an excellent, but perhaps not classic, drama posing as a romantic comedy. It's about morality and responsibility in a time when there is no morality and responsibility..  about love and family in a time when the definition of these words has become blurred. It cuts pretty close to home at times..  and there are those beautiful women. "},{"Title":"Who's the one?????","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be hilarious, I actually laughed out loud by myself! Come on Dorothy, it's all over! Hahahahaha, the repartee is fast and funny between the Fitzpatricks. Not to mention there are so many 'hot' babes in this movie. I vaguely recall somewhere in the back of my memory that I may have seen this movie before, but even if I had it doesn't matter because the laughs were fresh, new and satisfying. The almost 'infantile' banter between the brothers is genuinely hilarious. John Mahoney plays a very convincing role as the dubious patriarch who sees his boys as if they were perpetually 12 years old. The funniest part of it is, the boys unconsciously and unwittingly play right into his hands, at every twist and turn of the dialogue. Tune into this flick for some hearty laughter, silly shenanigans and some surprising plot twists. "},{"Title":"This is one!","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Edward Burns is to be admired for directing this (in places) wonderful slice of life, examining the intricacies of relationships, the ideas of romantic love and sibling rivalry. The family unit (Mike McGlone, Edward Burns, John Mahoney) is excellently conveyed. The father and younger brother (an impressive performance from both the actors) display (initially) a rampant misogynist, a far cry from the character Edward Burns plays.The cast is rounded off with a very good Jennifer Aniston as the cheated-against wife, who has her needs, not fulfilled sexually, a beautiful and contained Maxine Bahns and a vulnerable and (at the same time) brittle and almost defiant Cameron Diaz.It's a good movie, with good acting, and good lines.As in all Romantic Comedies, the story is quite predictable. However, it's an engaging film, and involves the viewer.Recommended "},{"Title":"Great Movie... Well cast. VERY FUNNY!","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is definitely one of my favorites! Very funny, Very well done. was laughing throughout the movie..especially the family matter backyard boxing! Hilllarious! Other favorite scenes include, Jennifers family discussion about the possibility of her husband being GAY!,  Ecxuse me!, My husband is not Gay she exclaimes!. You know he does wear that cologne her Dad says. Great scene. Also... the Limo ride with the butler... its a new day my man, Today is the first day of my new life how do I look?And... as he exclaims to Cameron Diaz Maybe he loves you because your young blonde and beautiful and he's got one foot in the grave! as he describes grandpa. "},{"Title":"Don't Underestimate It","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe this movie has only a 6 rating.  I thought it was entertaining as all hell and John Mahoney would be worth the whole movie, but doesn't need to be as all the other characters come through vibrantly. The relationship between the brothers is great, so textural, and Jennifer Aniston is priceless.  But still in all, I go back to John Mahoney and the subplot between him and his wife (who we never actually see).  That entire scenario was priceless and hysterical.A great film that shows Ed Burns really is a talent as a writer and director.  I give it a much higher rating then what it ranks at as a whole right now. "},{"Title":"Some of the greatest dialogue ever written","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie doesn't depend on special effects, or high profile stars (no offense)to grab you and bring you inside the story.  It actually has a plot! Something which is sadly missing in some of the big, flashy, premise movies today.  The dialogue is witty and down to earth.  It has a smatterring of the great tongue in cheek comments you wish you could use as a retort in real life.  Burns constructs some great cut-aways from one conversation to another.  This is a great movie that gets better every time you watch it.  I would recommend this to anyone who doesn't require a car crash, gun fire, or an explosion every few minutes to hold their attention. Some of the subject matter limits the audience to adults, but send the kids to grandma's house and enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Ed Burns' vanity project, but still a fairly entertaining flick.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ed Burns wrote, directed, stars in She's The One. After breaking up with his girl (Diaz) he is giving a taxi ride to a young lady (Bahns) and within 24 hours they are married. Destined to fail, right? Meanwhile his younger brother seizes the opportunity and cheats on his wife (Aniston) to begin an affair with Diaz, who worked her was through college as a hooker.This film is mainly about the relationships between the two brothers and their father. After Diaz marries a rich old guy, young brother cannot salvage his broken relationship with Aniston, rightly so. After first being hesitant to follow his new wife to Paris for school, Burns realizes his error, the film ends with the three men and the young wife heading out on the boat, going fishing, a break in the family tradition of men only fishing trip. This is symbolic of the changed way the three of them look at life and relationships, coming on the heels of dad finding out mom wasn't going to church each morning a 8AM, but fooling around with the old hardware store man who simply admired her and gave her attention.This is a subtle film, speaks volumes about relationships and our obligation to do the right thing. Not a great film, but good. In the story Bahns was from Vermont, and she really is from Vermont. In the film she became Burns' wife, while in real life they were dating. She was going to France, and in real life she speaks fluent French. Jennifer Aniston, Amanda Peet, Cameron Diaz were all still relatively unestablished in film, and that was what allowed them to fit into the salary cap for this film. I don't think Burns will ever become known as a great writer/director, but his films are honest and in that he has a lot going for him. "},{"Title":"This is great!","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You have to see this movie. It's one of the best romantic comedies ever; the story is great, the performances are solid,and the dialogue is amongst the wittiest I have ever seen on screen. What more can I say, I've already seen it seven (or something like that) times and each time I get as ecstatic as the first. This is a must-see! I give it 9/10! "},{"Title":"Great movie. Lots of Hot Chicks!!!!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie, Edward Burns did a great job. It is a great story with great characters. It also has an amazing amount of beautiful women in it (Diaz, Aniston, Bahns, Peet, and Mann). This movie is on Comedy Central all the time and is worth watching just for these amazing women, not to mention it really is a good movie. I highly recommend it.  "}{"Title":"A Nice, but Flawed, Plot-Driven Film","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the kind of movie that I like. The plot is well-written and well-directed. I like Edward Burns as an actor and writer. Even so, there are some pretty significant flaws in this execution of this wonderful idea.The most substantial problem problem with the movie is the casting of Maxine Bahns. She is a very poor actress. Since she was cast in the earlier The Brothers McMullen, also written and directed by Edward Burns, I assume there is a friendship that misdirected that decision.Some of the characters don't play out quite right. The role of the brother, played my Mike McGlone, is well acted, but the writing made that character a little too two dimensional. I think there was a opportunity to create a character with a little more complexity than the wealthy, uncaring, superficial husband.There were some good performances by actors on their way to being A-list players. Cameron Diaz turns in an exceptional performance. Jennifer Aniston also shows her acting chops. Amanda Peet also turns in a short, but well-executed performance.In spite of some of the casting flaws and missed opportunities for some depth in characterizations, this is a very enjoyable movie. If you like character and plot-driven movies, this is a worthwhile way to spend some time. "},{"Title":"A fabulous, truthful, instant-favourite movie","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A beautiful woman gets into Ed Burns' cab, and asks him to drive her to New Orleans. What guy wouldn't relate to this fundamental fantasy? This is a guy's movie. It has brilliant observations on the love-hate relationship between brothers, and also on the Irish-American family. You don't even believe in God, Ed Burns says to his sermonising father. That doesn't mean I can't be a good Catholic, his father replies. There are countless twists, and countless funny lines. Ed Burns is some kinda genius. A fabulous, truthful, instant-favourite movie.  "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised...","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know how I ended up with this movie, but I found a copy and decided to watch it after a boring day of work. Boy was I surprised.The story moves along at a fast pace with good editing. What I really loved about the movie were two things.. Firstly, the character development. Not much into the movie, you knew what each character was all about. This is a feat hard to achieve and kudos to Ed Burns for achieving it with this movie.Second.. and the more important thing that I liked about the movie.. The relationship between the family members.. basically the siblings and the father. It was realistic to some degree.. but also there was a special feeling of together-ness.Overall - this was a different romantic comedy.. with some really funny moments and a pretty unique story. It should be rated much higher than what it is.. and I would definitely suggest people to watch it! "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have been using IMDB for a couple years now and have never made a comment until now. I feel this movie really deserves more credit than it is given. I watch a lot of movies, and in general would not equate myself with any particular genre, but would rather say that I like any movie that is of high quality. This one is certainly in my top 5 for romantic comedies. I can't put my finger on why I like this movie so much, and that is perhaps the very reason that I do. It shined for me.  I'm now on a total hunt for more movies by Edward Burns, as I think he has a really interesting style.  "},{"Title":"Watch this One more than once","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Burns second film, She's the One, is one to be watched again and again and again.  The majority of the film critics felt that Burns did not make a new movie with She's the One but merely an extension of The Brothers McMullen, on the contrary.   She's the One is a witty, interesting comedy about the problems that men face with the women in their lives.  The more you watch this movie the more you will appreciate it. Edward Burns really stands out as an extraordinary actor. "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is all about great interaction between Ed Burns, Mike McGlone, and John Mahoney.  The dialogue between them is perfect.  Cameron Diaz is absolutely beautiful, but I wish there would have been more scenes between her and Ed Burns.  I liked this film far more than The Brothers McMullen, and I'm expecting great things from Mr. Burns in the future.  "},{"Title":"Perfect in every sense","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  May contain some small spoilersWhen you have a low budget of about 3.5 million dollars, you are obviously going to concentrate on what you are good at.  For Ed Burns, that is dialogue and characterization.  She's The One is one of the best movies I have ever seen when it comes to the characters and who they are.  This is a film that reminds me of Tarantino, Damon and Affleck and Kevin Smith.  These are thespians that first and foremost have an incredible flair and a tuned ear for how people think, talk and express themselves.  Ed Burns is truly one of the gifted ones and this is a film that is a pleasure to watch from the start to the end.  From it's main characters to it's secondary ones, they all have something interesting or intriguing to say.  If there ever was a hidden gem, this is it in every way.Ed Burns plays Mickey Fitzpatrick and he is fresh off of a tour of the U.S.A when three years earlier he walked into his apartment and found his fiancee buck naked with what Mickey refers to as Gorilla Man.  Instead of doing what most macho men from the world of Goodfellas would do, Mickey just turned and walked out, for three years.  Some people take a little longer to heal. He is now back in New York driving a cab which is a major point of contention between him and his snobby, pretentious brother, Francis.  Francis is a wall street broker or investor or something, and he makes a pile of money.  He doesn't understand why Mickey is working at a dead beat job and he never shys away from dragging him through the mud every chance he gets. Hey, I'm happy where I am right now, Mickey says to his dad and Francis one day while on their dad's fishing boat.Happy, big deal if you're happy.  You're never going to make any real money, Francis so eloquently points out.Francis is wealthy as sin and married to a beautiful woman, played by Jennifer Anniston, but he is cheating on her with another cold hearted woman played with absolute Arctic coolness by Cameron Diaz.  She is banging Francis but absolutely does not hesitate to sleep with other men because she knows Francis is still married.  She even coyly brags about how many orgasms an older man, affectionately named Papa, can give her while in comparison, Francis has about as much spark as a wet match.  Why she is with him, that is not quite clear.  But their relationship does ring true because both are so emotionally frigid that they just make sense.Meanwhile Mickey impulsively marries a girl that he drives to New Orleans in his cab.  They have known each other for a mere three days and they tie the knot.  This is the highest form of romance to some of the woman in the film but to Francis and Mick's dad, they think it is an abomination.  Every theory from her being an illegal alien to pregnancy is debated upon.  Never once occurring to either of them that Mickey could truly be in love.There are other layers to the film such as the father having problems of his own with his wife.  There is another hilarious subplot about Mickey finding out that the woman his brother is sleeping with is really his former fiancee, the one that cheated on him with Mr. Gorilla Man.Ed Burns has written rich characters that are quite real.  This is a close family, at least the boys and their father are.  But they obviously have some serious real life problems.  However, whatever amount of animosity that exists between siblings always takes a back seat loyalty, well most of the time.  One scene in particular rings so true that it reminded me of my own brother and our relationship.Mickey finally finds out that Francis is sleeping with his ex-fiancee, the gorilla humper.  He has to tell him something that he feels he should know about her.  Mickey knows that she put herself through college by working as a call girl.  He reluctantly tells his brother and Francis' first reaction is that Mickey is just saying that to him to alleviate his pain, to make sure that Francis does not have what was once his.  Mickey then tells him that he is sorry to be the one to tell him but someone had to.  He loves him after all, and hey they are brothers.  Better he find out from him than from someone else when they are married.  And then he follows it up with an even better encounter.You told him didn't you? Heather asks Mickey.Yea, I did, Mickey replies without a hint of anger in his voice.But you said you were okay with that, she says, close to tears.I am, Mickey says sincerely, but he is my brother.That is all that's said.  And that is all that needs to be said.  An inferior writer would of had Mickey go into some elaborate monologue about something to do with the fact that he and Francis may not see eye to eye.... and so on.  But Burns hits the right note and leaves the rest up to us. She's The One has enough story in here for three or four movies, really.  And Burns tells all of them equally.  He doesn't play favourtism with any one story over the other.  They are all important to him and all are allotted the same time to grow.  This is one of the best films about relationships and it is certainly one of the most honest.  If you think that Kevin Smith's film Chasing Amy was clever with it's dialogue, then you will love She's The One.I have seen this film three times and The Brother's McMullen twice.  They have obvious similarities but the one thing that is great about both of them is that they get better every time you watch them, and that is a sign of a great film.9 out of 10- it doesn't get much better than this.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies, flaws and all.","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is, as the summary says, one of my favorite comedies, despite the flaws pointed out by others. The reason is that it works as a metaphor for life better than it does as a literal story--parts of it are a stretch. But I think it is a wonderful comedy with some great things to say about relationships and life.A big part of why I like it is the writing, which strikes me as natural, believable, and unforced--which is certainly aided by the acting performances. Some of the lines are simply hilarious You don't want to cheat on your girlfriend with your wife? Or That's an interesting theory. I hope you didn't hurt yourself coming up with that one, just to pick two. I also mostly like the acting performances. Burns and McGlone play off each other very well, and if McGlone's character can seem a bit over the top, I think that's a directorial choice to help make the point. And for those people who don't care for Maxine Bahns, I think she's better than she is given credit for. She has some moments that are just terrific, like when she first pops over the front seat of the cab and introduces herself with the story of her friend under the sink. This was the performance that convinced me that Jennifer Aniston really can act well--the scene where McGlone says he wants a divorce is wonderfully played by her-- that mix of anger and hurt and shock are portrayed beautifully. And John Mahoney is great, as is Cameron Diaz. The structural parallels are also terrific, as they illustrate the differences in the two couples. Shopping in a thrift shop as opposed to an upscale boutique, the contrast in apartments, etc., are all great devices to illustrate and underline the differences between the two brothers and couples. And using McGlone's driver as a kind of chorus worked very well, at least for me. In conclusion, this film is a ton of fun, and conveys meaning beyond what one would expect from a romantic comedy (if I have to categorize it). Is it flawed? Of course. But for me, this is a film that transcends its flaws and works on a number of levels, both literal and figurative. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"C'mon ya'll!  It's comedy magical, for chrissakes!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, even if Edward Burns isn't the greatest actor ever, you have to admit that his writing is faboo.  Naw, it's just that some people might read you as less than straight.  And, you know, if you are...you're my brother and I'll always love you.....sweet boy.  That is a quality line, and I'll tell you why.  It deals with the topic of homosexuality, which is a taboo subject in our society, therefore open to criticism (including jokes).  It contains the line most uttered by family members considering homosexuality amongst their kinfolk.  And the line ends with a cute, wacky little jab to give it a little extra punch.  THAT, my friends....is a funny line.  There are plenty more to boot!  I can't believe some of you didn't appreciate this film for its comedic value.Some of you are just dumb, I guess. "},{"Title":"i love it )","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i absolutely adore this movie. it's very cute, and the story line is pretty original. If you're looking for an Oscar-winning, thought-provoking intellectual film, like one other person obviously was, then you're an idiot and you should not have watched this movie in the first place. but Ed Burns is a very witty actor and I like his style in both acting and directing. quite a cast, too. the character Franny is extremely annoying, and the actor does a wonderful job of personifying the role. the love story is very cute for anyone who likes happy endings w/o tears, a la Elizabethtown. all around, i just love it. it's a great film to sit down to. kudos ) "}{"Title":"Witty dialogue, believable character development","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possibly my favorite film of all time. I will say that it was a very boyish movie, but that was a plus for the movie. Above all, the dialogue was boyishly witty. The three main characters were also really boyish (Mickey, Frankie, and the father) with respect to their romantic relationships, and that situation lent itself well to character development. Two of the three continue to be childish and selfish, while one finally settles on a commitment. Furthermore, good acting all around, especially from Diaz. Like several users said, Bahns wasn't outstanding, but she did lend Hope a certain appropriate aloofness. "},{"Title":"Great movie, great writing","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Edward Burns was great in it and it made me want to find out more about him.  This movie is so funny, I laughed out loud many times, The dialog is great and very true to life.  I really cared about the characters and what would happen to them.  Cameron Diaz is also in this movie and she is really good.  Go see it- it's a feel-good movie with depth.  "},{"Title":"Edward Burns is one of the most interesting new directors.","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As in The Brothers McMullen, Edward Burns displays his talent for dynamic and funny dialogue. The story isn't quite as good but the acting of Mike McGlone, John Mahoney and Burns himself raises the movie to a higher level. Maxine Bahns, Cameron Diaz and Jennifer Aniston are extremely easy on the eyes. "},{"Title":"Don't try bashing this until you've actually watched it!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read through many of the comments about She's the One and didn't feel many of them did the film justice. I thought the movie was great even before I looked at the box and found out Edward Burns wrote, directed, and starred in the film. That just left me speechless.The acting was seamless since the characters became so real you almost forgot it was a movie you were watching. They could be real people, something not many movies can do.Who can justifiably say there was no character development? I know they didn't watch the movie because that WAS the movie. All the events lead to character development!The cinematography was absolutely outstanding. The camera work fed into the stream-of-consciousness the film carries. Cutting has seldom been applied as well.All in all, I love this movie. It handles love from so many perspectives, and keeps all of it real to life. There are really no fairy tale aspects to the relationships in this film. The realism is yet another great aspect of the film.I think everyone should see the film. I know there will be those of you who really disagree with what I have said, and I encourage you to email me, not with hate mail by any means, but I welcome any legitimate arguments and will take the time to respond. "},{"Title":"A Fun Comedy","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This happened to have been a lighthearted and entertaining movie. So what if it was The Brothers McMullen with the Irish themes toned down (though still significant) and a few more famous stars with a higher budget. Its heartwarming relationship perspectives and humorous (though not sidesplitting) dialog make this film a much better choice than most other relationship comedies. My only complaint is why did Edward Burns have to include Jennifer Aniston in the cast??? Was he trying to use the banal relationship tones of Friends to liven up the story??? He only succeeded in dampening it a bit. But I must say, it wasn't hard for viewers to understand why Aniston couldn't sexually entice her husband. Many critics haven't been fair to Maxine Bahns (who was Edward Burns's girlfriend at the time) and Mike McGlone (who is one of Burns's closest, if not best, friend). It's true that they were in The Brothers McMullen and were placed in high roles in this film for capitalistic and nepotistic reasons, but since they're so well suited for the parts, it isn't surprising nor disturbing. McGlone is excellent as the brash, successful younger brother whose career is sky high but is stuck in a bad marriage. And Maxine Bahns is very likable and talented, portraying a free spirited graduate student who works in a bar and lives in a small apartment. As far as the more famous players are concerned, Burns should be commended for choosing Cameron Diaz, a rising star, to play the voloptuous vixen. For those who are used to seeing her in her lighter roles (The Mask, There's Something about Mary, A Life Less Ordinary) you'll be surprised to see how dazzling she is here. And watch for John Mahoney (Frasier's dad) as the boys' eccentric, though understanding father, and Frank Vincent (who played tough enforcers in 3 of Scorcese's mob movies!!!) as McGlone's candid father in law. Edward Burns is a good actor and filmmaker, and hopefully we'll be seeing more from him in the future. "},{"Title":"Character driven","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am ashamed in American viewers when I see people rip on a movie like this...sorry there are no car chases, no guns and no sploshins for the typical miopic, immature american viewer that has had their senses dulled by the likes of Jerry Springer and Wrestling...this is an actual film about people, love and family brilliantly directed by Ed Burns (the Brothers McMullen) and starring Burns, the delightful Maxine Bahns, Jennifer Aniston, Cameron Diaz and the vastly underrated John Mahoney. If your idea of a great movie is Rambo, skip this film and go back to your Phonics class, for the rest of us enjoy. "},{"Title":"Why can't more movies be like this???","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Needless to say, Edward Burns is a truly talented writer/director, who possesses a brilliant ear for dialogue.  Like in all his films, She's the One is composed of an interesting array of characters, whose lives all intersect in interesting ways.  There's loads of great dialogue and the performances are pitch-perfect!  John Mahoney steals many scenes as the unorthodox father.  I've always felt Cameron Diaz was a fine actress, but recently she's become such a sex symbol that most of her roles seem to now compose of her standing in front of the camera, looking pretty and flashing her one-in-a-million smile.  I think this is one of her best performances, and definitely her most overlooked.  Jennifer Aniston has reached that status as well, and I also feel this is one of her best performances.  Lesser-known actor Mike McGlone (who also starred in The Brothers McMullen) is very charismatic and funny, and steals many scenes.  It's a surprise that I don't see him in too many movies.  Maxine Bahns (also from McMullen) is the only actress in the cast who kind of sleeps through her role.  But I must say, she is no strain on the eyes.  I just read that she's a quarter Brazillian and a quarter Chinese.  That must be where she gets her exotic beauty.  If you want to see a funny, honest, amusing comedy where characters talk like REAL people--this is the movie to see!  The film is mainly dialogue-oriented, and doesn't have any special effects or crude sight gags--which is almost a rarity nowadays.  Yes, you can make an interesting film out of realistic people in realistic situations.  Take some notes, aspiring filmmakers.  My score  9 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Not an ambitious movie, but wryly comic and lightly insightful","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ed Burns specializes in quiet New York comedy, which makes full use of NYC quirks, ethnicities, and conflicts.  He is also an incurable romantic, who tends to have himself pursuing romance in a city full of cynics -- sometimes even including himself, which is somewhat self-contradictory, but humorous. In this case, he is waffling on his true love, while his brother, married to Jennifer Aniston, is cheating on her with Cameron Diaz -- definitely an interesting question of taste -- and Diaz is a former girlfriend of Burns. The complications are not profound, but are gently comic, as are the required just deserts.  "},{"Title":"Another good work by Ed Burns","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Burns writes in the dialogue driven style that made Quentin Tarrentino all the rage.  He's a tremedous writer, solid director, and rising star as an actor.  He maybe the heir to Tim Robbin's Mr. Everything throne...only he's cuter.  A good job all around, and, if you haven't heard, a great soundtrack by Tom Petty. "},{"Title":"A good 'character' movie.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's the One is much better than many of the negative comments portray it. The unfolding plot, character discovery and wit makes this one of my favourite movies.  If you're looking for perfect, quit.  If you're looking for believable characters, relationships and writing that can make you laugh and smile, even when you catch a re-run on Comedy Central, check this one out (rent it). "}{"Title":"Edward Burns is amazing","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Writer, director, actor... Edward Burns can do it all! I still think The Brothers McMullen was better, but She's The One is your prototypical Burns film. Wonderfully acted and filled with great dialogue and down-to-earth characters who, underneath it all, really care about each other. That's tested a bit in this movie, which is littered with twisted dysfunctional relationships. I love John Mahoney as the dad and the fight scene between Mickey and Francis is brief but hilarious. Definitely recommended!! "},{"Title":"It's okay, could have been better","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is kind of a one-two punch about relationships and the responsibilities of men within the relationships.It does a fantastic job outlining and fleshing out the female characters. As such, Cameron Diaz and Jennifer Aniston's characters are probably some of the better written and most believable characters in the movie. (In fact, Cameron Diaz stole the show) You really do feel for some of the female casts.This, however, does not mean it gets a free pass with it's less than stellar characters... Maxine Bahns was... mediocre at best. But the rest of the male characters come across more like caricatures then real people. Mike McGlone is basically what happens if you take every alpha male stereotype, roll it through some dirt, and mix it together. I'd like to say that it's a good concept, but he comes across as just too unbelievable to me. The same can be said about John Mahoney's character, who while not as much of a caricature, can basically be summed with chauvinistic conservative patriarch who ends up screwing up their son's lives. The only person that is even remotely likable, being Edward Burns character is a little unbelievable at times too. I think the only good moments that Ed Burns has are from the scenes where he's with Cameron Diaz. And in the end, these characters are not written to be people, they were written to be ideas and archetypes to be used for commentary.However, having said that, some of the dialogue is pretty entertaining and some of the repartee between the characters are fun to listen to.The thing is though, funny dialogue doesn't give character depth.Not bad as far as a romantic comedy goes, but definitely not home run movie. "},{"Title":"Not for Everyone","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Clearly, a number of people like this movie. However several of us that just watched it disliked it a lot. It is likely a question of taste. Our concern with the movie was not the acting. I thought that the actors and actresses did a great job. Basically, we found the plot disturbing.The problem is that the movie is billed as a romantic comedy, yet several of us saw very little romance in it plus we did not find a single line in it funny enough to be a comedy. Many people complain about violence in movies.But I find that there is something worse than the standard gangster or war violence for movies &#150; and that is individual cruelty of one person to another. That personal level of cruelty to me seems more disturbing than normal violence, perhaps because it seems more immediately real. And this movie had some of that in it. Had the movie been billed as a drama and tragedy, we could have dealt with it better. If you are looking for a sweet romantic comedy to watch for a nice evening with your family, this movie likely is not it. Of course, then again, as we see in movie reviews, there are a lot of different tastes and it is clear that some people did like this picture. There are other movies that seem to follow this same genre &#150; saying that they are romantic comedies but not everyone will see them that way. The 'Story of Us' was another movie billed as a romantic comedy that I could do without. 'Not for Everyone' would be my advice for 'She's the One'. "},{"Title":"What a snore-fest.","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This has to be one of the most boring movies I have ever had the misfortune of seeing. There's not one remotely interesting or likable character.No one in front of the camera makes the slightest bit of effort, and the direction is shoddy as well. I was shocked to later find out it's supposed to be a comedy drama seeing as there were absolutely no laughs at all. I have no idea why I stuck it out until the end, I thought there'd be some kind of redeeming quality in it; guess what no.I wonder if everyone was riding on the popularity of 'Friends' and 'Frasier' to get tickets moved, and then they were hardly in it. It's definitely not the first or last movie to pull that kind of stunt.I bought this in a charity shop (mainly because of Jennifer and Cameron) I don't even want to take it back and subject any other poor unsuspecting soul to this disaster of a yawn-filled-nothing.I feel I should find at least one redeeming quality to be fair. Both taxi scenes were kind of sweet and/or interesting.I would not recommend this to my worst enemy. "},{"Title":"I just don't get what people would ever like in this film, someone help me!","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What She's the One lacks in terms of charm or funny moments it makes up in irritating, annoying characters and ample moments of boredom. I just don't get what anyone sees in this film. The story is basically about a bunch of unhappy people that can't get a handle on their relationships, are all either cheating on each other, screwing up their marriages or plain unpleasant. Mickey (Edward Burns) has recently gotten married to Hope (Maxine Bahns) because he's insecure about his previous girlfriend/fiancé cheating on him. His brother Francis (Mike McGlone) is cheating on his wife (Jennifer Aniston) with the woman who broke Mickey's heart, Heather (Cameron Diaz). Giving them both lousy advice is their sexist father Frank (John Mahoney), whose wife is alive but never appears on-screen.Admittedly, there are a few laughs here and there. There's a good bit where Ed Burns' character has to convince multiple people that he isn't gay and I thought that was funny. The film is well acted with some good dialog, which I also appreciate. What I didn't like was that the story focuses mostly on depressing, unlikeable people that try and solve their petty problems in the worst ways possible. You might be thinking that bad people trying to solve their problems and failing sounds funny, and it would be&#x85;but it's never done in the far-out way you would expect in a comedy. What we have here is more of a bunch of childish immature attempts that you would find Infuriating in real life, and not the least bit amusing on-screen. When I saw the two brothers settle an argument in an incredibly immature way that it isn't even clever because it ends in a tired joke you can see coming a mile away, I grew irritated. I know I was SUPPOSED to find it funny, but I simply did not. All of the men in the film are insecure and all of the women are frustrated and unhappy in their relationships. This would be fine if you saw them change and evolve. If you find a character annoying from the start though, he or she will be just as annoying at the end of the film. I just found it incredibly hard to cheer or be interested in these characters when they don't feel like real people; they don't really seem to have dreams or ambitions and can barely deal with the situation they've been given. It gets dull following them drift aimlessly.I'm certain that there's some kind of audience for this picture and no matter how many times I've seen it, I can never see the appeal. If someone out there knows what the deal with She's the One is, please let me know because I still find it insufferable. (On DVD, January 1, 2013) "},{"Title":"T'ain't the one","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An unlikeable film about unlikeable people - never a recipe for movie success! Leaping straight into a scenario in which one brother is having an affair and the other gets hitched to a girl he picks up in his taxi, it has no initial character development and leaves no option for the viewer but to think, What a bunch of *****! In every scene cigarettes are stuffed into the characters' hands; but instead of adding a touch of working class realism it looks fake and, to this viewer, annoying. John Mahoney plays the father who, because of his old-fashioned sexist opinions, we are supposed to frown upon. But I found myself frowning at all of them. Are we supposed to care about these people or wonder how quickly their beautiful actor skin is going to get ruined by the tar they are inhaling? "},{"Title":"Takes Some Believing","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Any movie where a man is not wanting to have sex with the gorgeous Jennifer Aniston, when she is laid on a bed wearing Victoria's Secret's finest certainly takes some believing. Plot In A Paragaph A look at the love life of Mickey (Edward Burns) and Francis (Mike McGlone), two Irish/American brothers. Mickey is a New York City blue-collared taxi driver, unhappy over losing Heather (Cameron Diaz), his ex-fiancée when she cheated on him. Francis is a fancy Dan Wall Street stock investor, who unknown to his wife, Renee (Jennifer Aniston), is having an affair with Heather. The lasting impression of this movie was the scene were Aniston is trying to seduce her uninterested husband. She looks fantastic.Whilst watchable, this movie certainly takes some believing. It's entertaining, but it's not as clever as it seems to think it is. John Mahoney steals the movie for me (Yes even away from Aniston in THAT scene) he is superb, Amanda Peet and Frank Vincent are both good, as was Maxine Bahns as Hope. "},{"Title":"Horrible.","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although the characters ARE well developed, I found this movie to be very irritating. There are so many faults to it. Many of the outcomes make absolutely no sense, the humor is lacking and the antagonist of the movie is so unlikable that it literally pains me to watch the interactions he has with his humble and (somewhat) normal brother.I honestly cannot comprehend the outcome of this movie. It just portrays relationships as these appearance and first whim based things. I don't understand how these people are so young and quick to marry people. And to add to it, you don't even get any back story on either of the relationship between the characters and even if you do it meager, pointless and doesn't say much. Micky is the hopeless (and immoral) romantic who marries a woman he meets in a cab whose asshole, chauvinistic and rash brother has an affair with his brothers former fiancée whom of which when he finds out is a hooker, realizes that he made a mistake and wants his wife back? Just horrible. Horrible story line, the family is just completely unsettling and dysfunctional as they constantly put Micky down for his job as a taxi driver and everyone is just cheating on everyone. Makes me wanna gouge my eyes out and then cry for these people because it's all just so twisted and sickening. "},{"Title":"Maxine Bahns is the lead despite 4 other better actresses in the movie","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mickey Fitzpatrick (Edward Burns) drives a cab in NYC. His brother Francis (Michael McGlone) is working Wall Street making loads of money. His father (John Mahoney) and brother is worried about him since the 'hairy ass' incident where he finds his fiancée Heather (Cameron Diaz) with a guy on his apartment floor. Mickey picks up a fare named Hope (Maxine Bahns) who he ends up marrying impulsively after only a few days. Francis is in an unhappy marriage with Renee (Jennifer Aniston) and cheats with Mickey's ex Heather.Writer/director Edward Burns tries to make a big move up after the success of his indie debut. There are lots of great up and coming actresses. The problem is that he picks his girlfriend as the lead. Other than Aniston, nobody has truly made it big back then but the difference is already foreseeable. There are four future stars and he picks the one that would never make it big. As for the story, it's trying to be talkative, profound and insightful. The most compelling character happens to be the douche brother Francis. He may as well be the actual central character. Maybe if there is a better Hope, Mickey's relationship could be more interesting. "},{"Title":"American wasteland","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good job burying Aniston in the script, because she won't amount to much, and OD'ing us on whatever else is left. Not one genuinely funny moment. Too malicious for romance. Too lost for drama. I'll leave it as 90's puffery.The chemistry between Mickey and Hope, the couple we're suppose to cheer for, was non-existent. The brotherly relationship between Mickey and Francis was undercut, well... by the acting. Besides Aniston, the very little of her, this film provides nothing that works. What was this film trying to portray, what was the message, what was the point? Answer its Sex In The City meets Friends minus the talent, the writing and the humor. "}{"Title":"Gentle and Funny take on relationships","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is truly a good and funny flick which you should not miss. I am surprised at the adverse review on the front here but this movie certainly deserves better. If you are looking for well developed characters, a cooky script and some really funny situations this is your bet. Watch it ! "},{"Title":"Superb Sophomore Effort","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ex-Entertainment Tonight production assistant Edward Burns' brilliant sophomoric effort as not only a filmmaker, but also as an actor.  She's The One is a truly fresh, funny, and wry romantic comedy about two brothers wrestling with their preposterous approaches to love and life.  Not only a great film but also a great soundtrack/score as it was written entirely by rock legend Tom Petty.  Definitely worth your time to check this one out.  "},{"Title":"Watch and watch closely.. you just might appreciate a great movie..","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is such a sweet film. These characters are so endearing and life-like. I wish I could get to know all these people in this movie, even the little @$$ Francis gets to be lovable. This is a very simple plot it's about people.This movie centers about the Fitzpatrick family. We follow their lives for a summer. And what a summer! Following THE BROTHERS MCMULLEN, director Burns likes to follow closely on relationships between men and women... and how they manage to get along with each other. There's a number of twists and turns that ensue, but the final result is that a wonderful story ends up on film. A story about people, life... and comedy! Sakes, I chuckled healthy in this movie. Ed Burns is a consummate storyteller who knows how to slip characters into your heart while giving you laughs. It's a no-lose movie. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a perfect follow up to The Brothers McMullan. Ed Burns is a very talented film maker.  People like Mike McGlone make the movie, its almost as if the part was written just for him.  The way burns tells a story is great, how he goes from one point of view to another, for example when franny is talking to his wife about micky and hope's relationship they are walking down the street and the flip back and forth to micky and franny talking in a bar, and franny is telling his wife the opposite of what his brother said.  "},{"Title":"Charming.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Personally I think this is Edward Burns best film. It seems more rounded out than The Brothers McMullen did, and definitely better than his last film. I can't even remember the title to the last film because it was so drab and boring. She's The One is a very funny and sometimes serious look at relationships in America. I liked the banter between the brothers and their father a lot. The acting was very good and I thought Jennifer Aniston was very good in this film. The pacing is right in this film and it leaves you appreciating the ones you love in your lifetime.  "},{"Title":"This film is the one!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Such a film with a great script and great acting is a rarity these days. But She's The One has it all. It is funny, it is clever, it is acted to great strength to make it the great movie it is.Edward Burns is the man at the center he has just gotten married without his brother being there, and his new wife is adjusting to the family. Cameron Diaz plays the funny former girlfriend of Burns who is now seeing his brother for the occasional get together.While all this is going on, there are plenty of laughs and moments of truth to be seen. I can understand how people were bored or fell asleep during this movie.....I mean if I had the brain of a pea I would have too. But only the smart will get this very funny, very subtle, very very likeable film.I'd give this great film ****1/2 out of ***** (that's a 4 and 1/2 out of 5....for all those people who didn't understand She's The One)  "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Clearly one of Jennifer Aniston's early films. Frankly, it should have been her character, Renee that the two brothers fought over rather than Cameron Diaz's character of Heather (please!) I liked the dialogue, and would like to see more of Ed Burn's acting, directing and writing. I did wonder though why we never saw the Mother? Strange. I thought that actually seeing and hearing from the Mother would have added a lot more to the story. I found the actress who played Hope to be boring and brought little life to the character as well as the overall story. The movie is entertaining and worth an hour and a half of your time if you're into this type of a movie.  "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the third film I've seen directed and written by Ed Burns. I don't like him as an actor but have always rather enjoyed his romantic dramas. This one is my favorite of the three(the others being The Brothers McMullen and Sidewalks of New York). This film has more beautiful(and recognized) faces and is probably the best acted out of the three. I enjoyed the film as a whole and thought the story was well developed. It is ultimately a second tier Woody Allen-esque film,but no one can live up to the classics. The film focuses on relationships and has good dialogue. It also has a good sense of humor and character development. The Tom Petty music is great,too(considering I'm a huge fan). ****/***** "},{"Title":"Can someone explain this plot?","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT What I don't understand is the Wall Street brother goes round to see the cab driver brother to accuse him of screwing his girl (Cameron Diaz, gorgeous). Then later in the film it's suddenly supposed to come as a big surprise to the cab driver that the Wall Street dude is doing Cameron. I thought he already knew!! Someone explain please!!! "},{"Title":"Polished, Perfect","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie succeeds where The Brothers McMullen and The Sidewalks of New York do not. In my opinion it is one of the best romantic comedies of all time. Maxine Bahns and Mike McClone from TBM rejoin Ed for this movie, and this time they get it right- almost as if the first movie were just a practice run.At first it was hard to adjust to Jennifer Aniston out of her Friends role, but after getting over it I appreciated her timing and delivery as much as ever. When she tells Mike's character that she doesn't know if she could survive another of his down cycles it is as great as anything from Friends.I'm a big fan of both Ed and New York, and this movie shows how wonderful both can be. "}{"Title":"Very good romantic comedy","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good movie about life and marriage, but only for those who love this genre. It shows you that the marriage is, after all, a lottery. You can marry someone you just meet 24 hours ago and have a good marriage, or marry someone you know for a long time (or you thought you know) and have a bad marriage. Also it shows you that you have to spend your life in present and that you don't have to take life too seriously. "},{"Title":"Outstanding love comedy","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outstanding love comedy that illustrated what a very good quality combination of story,screenplay,script,directing and cinematography can do for a movie despite a very modest budget!Another great filmaking school example here.The acting was ok but the actor's performances were magnified by very good character development,very adeptly handled by the writers and the director.For INTELLIGENT fans of the love comedy genre,this movie is one of those that you wish you could see the movie's characters again soon as the movie ends.That is a sign of a great film.Although I must warn you that people who do not like intelligent films will not really like this film that much.Thus the general audience's low rating for this classic film.What can I say but INTELLIGENCE is only for the few!Also,not for the ones who casually use the bandwagon term chick flick which I refuse to use because women do not have a monopoly on romance movies.It is men who create the greatest romance films and litterature so they belong to men as well.But it takes INTELLIGENCE to understand what I mean so I leave it at that.To those on my level,enjoy this great love relationship plot movie.....  "},{"Title":"GREAT FILM, One of the best romantic comedies EVER released","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the people that do bash this movie, i get the sense that they don't like this genre of film. Understandably so, almost every romantic comedy i have ever seen has made me never want to consider watching another movie in this class or movies in general. So if i turned on the TV and saw Jennifer Aniston and cameron diaz i would turn it off thinking oh my god not another picture perfect, but it caught my eye and i had to watch the whole thing. Burns direction and character development is unbelievable. i have watched the movie several times and i don't get sick of it. Definitely a must see from a very brilliant young directer and great actor Edward Burns.Best romantic comedy next to chasing amy ( nobody can do it better then Kevin Smith ) "},{"Title":"A Chick Flick for Dudes","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems too often when it comes to movies, the ones crafted for a female audience are the ones that try to be light and romantic while films crafted for males are violent and explosives driven.  Now I love Die Hard as much as the next guy, but every now and again its nice to see a movie about and for guys that takes a light sort of bittersweet look at relationships.  I watch this movie and feel emotional, but also completely hetero.  Thanks Ed Burns, you da man.  "},{"Title":"A Good, Small Woody Allen Wannabe","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is obvious that this film draws inspiration from the works of Woody Allen. That's not a bad thing however. I enjoyed the film, it was fast, witty, and just fun. Ed Burns is great in the lead as the regular guy, right down to his killer N.Y. accent (again, Allen). Cameron Diaz has a small, yet awfully good part in it as the saucy femme fatale. It is always nice to see a superstar in the making honing their acting chops in an almost unknown film. Jennifer Aniston shines also as the girl in a downed (literally) relationship. It's a shame that she's become typecast in those roles. Though the performances make the film good too watch, it's the situations that occur that make the film FUN to watch. I take a liking to Mike McGlone's character, Francis, and his  happenings, especially the one's with Aniston. That brings me to another point McGlone is the best part of the movie! I recommend the film for people who like small, funny, slice-of-life, love stories. It's really a chick flick. Though I'm a guy, there is still something for everyone Ed Burns and Mike McGlone for the ladies and Cameron Diaz and Jennifer Aniston for the guys. What more can you ask for? "},{"Title":"An Instant Classic","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Shows what men really feel about relationships.  Great comedy, and the characters were very well done.  I highly recommend this one!  Mike McGlone is a superb actor.  Plus for added bonus, there is lots of hot women.  Women should watch this if they want to see how men view relationships.  "},{"Title":"Some days are diamonds, some days are rocks","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  * * (2 out of 5)She's The OneDirected by Edward Burns, 1996Some days are diamonds, some days are rocks  - Tom Petty, from soundtrackSynthetic and stiff comedy, severely lacking the wit of Burns' debut (The Brothers McMullen). Mike McGlone's performance is seriously annoying, as is the rather artificial dialogue.  Burns has his moments though, and enough meat and potatoes in these non-judgemental depictions of modern American values clashing with Catholic ambiguity. She's The One barely survives on a combination of these, two wholesome characters (intriguing performances by Cameron Diaz and Jennifer Aniston), and a totally delightful and magical musical score by Tom Petty.  Co-produced by Robert Redford. "},{"Title":"This movie is for Edward Burns fans, NOT Friends fans!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of the comments here have me laughing so hard! This is a serious/funny movie about relationships (family and romantic and entangled). It has nothing, absolutely nothing, to do with Jennifer Aniston and her Rachel character. Fans of Friends who get this movie for Aniston will be disappointed (and, as evidenced, might not get the wit and intelligence of the dialogue). Fans of Edward Burns' writing will have a much better time!  "},{"Title":"Ups and Downs","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a fan of Edward Burns' movies. For the most part I thought She's the One was an enjoyable film. However, there was some definite ups and downs Ups Characters and Acting. I really liked the characters in this film Hands down, my favorite was John Mahoney as the father. He was superb has an uber-Catholic Irish hard ass father with a soft spot for his boys. Maxine Bahns was absolutely beautiful and lovable in this film as well. I also really liked the brother relationship between Edward Burns and Mike McGlone. I also have a brother that is close an age and Burns did a really great job capturing the competitive nature between siblings.Downs Triteness. I could not watch this movie at some parts because of how cheesy some of them were. Burns did nothing to set She the One apart from every other 90's coming-of-age relationship film. While I thought there was some good dialogue, it could not save the film from becoming just another typical 90's dramatic comedy about relationships.Although I did enjoy this movie and always put it on whenever it I see it on HBO, this is not Edward Burns' best film. Go see Brothers McMullen, Sidewalks of New York, and the Groomsmen for better Edward Burns films. And if you have some free time...She's the One will do OK. "},{"Title":"Lesser First Draft of 'Sidewalks'","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though in general I like Ed Burns more as an actor than as a filmmaker, I thought Sidewalks of New York had a certain something to it, and I had sort of wanted to see this film for a while (took me eight years, so obviously I wasn't hankering to see it too badly). I've long enjoyed the movie's soundtrack &#150; completely composed by genius Tom Petty &#150; and last week I finally got to see what all those songs were about.She's the One is a typical Burns ensemble piece where New Yorkers bitch about their love lives. Unlike his later Sidewalks, though, no one here is particularly redeemable. Burns himself plays the most positive character, an underachieving cab driver named Mickey Fitzpatrick. Mickey, though he won't admit it, has issues with his ex Heather (Cameron Diaz), issues that he will admit to with his money-hungry, status-driven brother Francis (Mike McGlone), and maybe some issues with his dad (John Mahoney), although they don't seem to trouble him all that much. Like Sidewalks, this film is really less about an individual character (though it's more centered on Mickey than Sidewalks was on Burns' character) and more about the problems we all have in relationships. As it turns out, none of the relationships in this film are healthy, though Mickey more or less gets along with his new wife Hope (Maxine Bahns). Oh, and for color, and the reason I ended up watching the film in the first place, brother Francis is unhappily married to Renee (Jennifer Aniston &#150; ah, now it all makes sense to you).What this movie really should be called is Ed Burns has Issues. At least in Sidewalks there was a little bit of true love and redemption; here, a younger, more bitter Burns seems to think that no relationship can really work. Everyone either neglects or cheats on someone else, and all of them have trouble not only dealing with their partner's feelings but with their own. Francis has a thing on the side with Heather; Dad ignores Mom so much (she never actually appears on screen) that she leaves him for the guy at the hardware store; and so on. Burns seems to be saying through this film `You know, this whole love thing stinks, and you're gonna get burned.'Burns himself is okay but he plays his essential core character &#150; the guy who's okay but was burned in the past and is perpetually on guard now (see also Sidewalks, Life or Something Like It, etc.) McGlone gives Francis just the right smarmy yuppie/slick urban edge, making it really hard to like him. Cameron Diaz, whom no one ever mistook for an actress, is fine here, mostly because her role isn't that large, and she's only asked to play a one-note conniving bitch. Mahoney's very enjoyable, though that's not a huge surprise as he usually is. Most of the supporting players were all pretty effective with one exception; Aniston is woefully miscast as Renee. Hailing from a family of Lungilanders, both of Renee's parents and her sister (Amanda Peet) have the L.I. accent down perfect. Aniston not only doesn't do the accent, she never even seems to be part of the same family. The other thing that irked me about the film, and it was so prevalent I feel it needs commenting on, is that R.J. Reynolds must have been a sponsor. EVERY single character is a smoker, except Burns, who even now and again has the occasional cigar (with dad). But everyone else chain smokes through the whole picture, and it was done with such abandon that it was first noticeable and then irritating. It was like a long ad for cigarettes, in spots.She's the One mines similar territory as Sidewalks and there are some good laughs, mostly from Mahoney's one-liners with his sons. But it's not a film I would particularly recommend, unless you really happen to like Burns' films. There are many better &#145;relationship issue' films than this one (Burns even made one himself) that you would be better spending your time with.  "}{"Title":"Not Worth 2 hours of your life.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't believe this film.  I have seen better character development on a postage stamp. That line where the dad tells Mickey that his little brother put himself last in a baseball game so Mickey would look good... yeah right, nothing in the character showed that this was a remote possibility.  I have no problem with the acting ability of the cast, in other films they may have been fine, but with this albatross around their necks, they looked like high school amateurs.  I want the 2 hours of my life I invested in this drivel back.  I haven't felt this gypped since Spiceworld. "},{"Title":"Even if you like Ed Burns, this is truly....","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" a disappointment. I loved The Brothers McMullen, it was well written, had an interesting storyline, and was a realistic portrayal of modern romance. I am not really a fan of romantic comedy since it permeates American television with its pablum, and is disingenuous.Nevertheless, I gave this film a shot. What a mistake. For some reason, whether it is the actors or storyline, it just doesn't work. There are a few funny lines like John Mahoney, when he is commenting on Burns' latest girlfriend ...she looks like she is from one of the islands... Also Michael McGlone was very good in The Brothers McMullen but here is portrayed as a complete imbecile. The Cameron Diaz character is unsympathetic and trashy.Amanda Peet is a good actor but could have been given a more significant role. The Aniston character is the same as always. Actually the female characters in this film were superficial and wooden, whereas in The Brothers McMullen (mostly a guys point of view) the characters were well-developed. Maybe he should write male characters, mostly; I could say the same about Nicole Holofcener, who does some interesting female characterizations, but cannot write parts for men that are realistic (thereby turning it into a chick flick so you alienate the male audience).Well, this film alienates the female audience in the same manner. I liked Sidewalks of NY but that was mostly because Stanley Tucci was in it; the Heather Graham character was also portrayed as a somewhat clueless female.That being said, skip this one. Watch Brothers McMullen instead. 1/10. "},{"Title":"HE's thuh wun!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was interesting to read the comments in late 2001, pro and con, about this movie since it's been out for awhile.As a woman old enough to be Ed Burns' mother, I guess I have a slightly different take on his films.  They are heavily skewed toward the young man on a quest for himself genre.  Both this film and The Brothers McMullen seem to be part of some trilogy in the making.  Burns himself (in interviews) and in his subject matter seems most comfortable with his brothers and male bonding.  Women are really incidental and deceptively placed as diversions.  The real intimacy and inter-relating in his films is between the guys.  A father's approval rating is the highest of all while mother is (or should be) clearly the homemaker.This is not a negative thing to this film buff but it is just an observation.  The appeal of this type of film to a female viewer is similar to watching a group of jocks or real guy guys interacting.  It's fun to be with them but the female is never really a part of their inner group. Guys like that tend to focus exclusively on each other until one of them breaks the eyelock at the sight of a babe or some guy diversion.  Then it's fun to watch them oogling or crowing.  As a woman, you feel a part of their group because they include you and not because there is any type of equality thing going on.That's what watching an Ed Burns movie is like for me.  And I really enjoy the process by which he turns over each stone carefully, seeking information through introspection and by dialogue with his brothers.  Even the vain and judgmental Francis is subject to private doubts about himself.  I like watching seemingly ordinary, flawed human beings reaching outwardly and inwardly, as they trundle through the days of their lives.  Burns' characters are pretty and petty, shallow in some areas and show depth in others.  They seem real to me and I enjoy the up-close view he gives us as they examine their own faces in the bathroom mirror and when they put on their public faces for their outside lives.The writing is smart and realistic.  The pace seems more lifelike than many of today's obsessively action-driven films.  Personally, I enjoy seeing these big screen men rather involved in exploring their inner selves and their relationships with others.  Ed Burns is a very appealing Irish-American Woody Allen whose movies are much more accessible and a hell of a lot less neurotic. "},{"Title":"excellent movie!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie! It was an enjoyable slice-of-life film with witty dialogue. Each character has dimension and is fun to watch interacting with one another on screen. I literally watched this movie three times in a row the other day. This is a movie I can never get sick of. Edward Burns is a brilliant writer & director and the gorgeous Maxine Bahns gives a great performance. Cameron Diaz & Jennifer Aniston are both icing on the cake. This is a feel good romantic comedy. It just brightens the day to watch. "},{"Title":"Good film and Tom Petty's song is cool!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	If I could be allowed the use of a somewhat trite litotes, not bad.  Edward Burns not only takes on the starring role, he also wrote and directed this well crafted, modern look at male/female relationships (props are also due to Burns as a co-producer for the casting of the eye-candy trio of Maxine Bahns, Jennifer Aniston and Cameron Diaz).  Although this work could not be declared ambitious, it is appealing on many levels.	Though ostensibly an in depth look at the emotional detachment of men, the movie arrives at that perennial question of the ages; what do women want from men?  Do they want a hard working provider or a tender, romantic lover who borders on uxoriousness?  That dichotomy looms large here and quickly moves to the center of the plot, replacing the otiose attempt at examining the relationship of the two brothers (played by Burns and Mike McGlone) and their father (John Mahoney).	Oh yeah, I suspect there is some significance to two of the film's main characters that are discussed in much of the dialogue, but are never shown (Diaz's elderly lover and the brother's mother).  I don't know what it is but Burns I'm sure does.  It's an interesting dramatic device that would probably have served another film much better.            "},{"Title":"Totally Great!...","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best romantic/comedy films I have ever watched.  The plot may not be too original but that doesn't matter because the writer makes it the best of all films like this.  The acting is extremely good, especially Jenifer Aniston's.  The film is also believable and thus very realistic.  You can tell the budget must not have been very big but this just makes the movie even more realistic. Take it from me, who likes comedy/romance films, WATCH THIS!!  "},{"Title":"Steal from the top shelf, baby","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Irish-American actor-writer-producer-director Edward Burns fascinates me. Constantly glowering, ringing out his costars with contempt while looking into the middle distance (unable to stomach their faces a minute longer), Burns is a churlish glob of antimatter that kills charm on contact. Chugging tallboys and raising one eyebrow half into his pompadour, Burns is royally pee-O'd--but he tries to cover it up with zinga-za romantic-comedy-guy patter. It fails. But it fails magnificently. I find watching this guy try to hide his bitterness and rage fascinating, like watching Eric Schaeffer grope supermodels in his dreadful pseudo-Woody epics. And I get this feeling that...well, Edward Burns just doesn't like women, to be honest. Cameron Diaz comes under particularly ugly fire in SHE'S THE ONE. And somehow Burns' rage and resentment is supposed to take on this Nora Ephron coloring. It doesn't.SHE'S THE ONE is about a cab driver (Burns) who falls in love with a passenger (Maxine Bahns) and marries her after a day. His brother (the fine Mike McGlore) is a smug stockbroker married lovelessly to Jennifer Aniston, but pining for his mistress, Cameron Diaz. When Bahns wants to go to Paris to study, and McGlore gets caught in the middle of the sanctioned and the unsanctioned woman, one thought pops into mind Manhattan. And I don't mean the borough I mean the 1979 Woody Allen masterpiece whose plot was lifted willy-nilly for this TV-looking enterprise.What can one say, finally, about Edward Burns? That he needs therapy to get over his unmotivated anger issues? Or maybe just that he has raised more heterosexual male hackles in his appropriation of Heather Graham than any celebrity pairing since the brief Brooke Shields-Adnan Khashoggi moment of the early eighties. "},{"Title":"Must-See-Movie","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's the one is definitely a must-see-film. Reason Just watch it and find out for yourself ... Thrilling story, great characters, awesome performances by Cameron Diaz and Jennifer Aniston.  "},{"Title":"GREAT FUNNY MOVIE !","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie has clever, witty writing and great character development. It's also very very funny. the actors do an awesome job. You would never know that this is only the directors' second movie.  "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't really know anything about this going in. That includes the fact that Burns had directed or done a script. He's pretty good, I'd give another one of his a chance. The plot is interesting and develops nicely throughout. This has quite fast pace, and at no point does it really seem to slow down, without being overwhelming in speed. The acting is marvelous, everyone hands in a solid performance. Dialog is clever and well-delivered. All of the writing is rather well-done, the story, the characters, etc. The parts are well-cast, they are all credible. This is very funny, and it doesn't particularly try too hard at getting laughs. Almost all of the humor lies in the snappy lines and exchanges. No one in this feels flat or overly perfect, they are all flawed in some way, and thus much easier to relate to. This is a nice, not too cutesy or predictable romantic comedy, with a little more of an attitude, without completely ceasing to fall into that genre. The language is relatively frequent, and definitely moderate to strong. Sexuality is mainly hinted at or mentioned, not seen. I recommend this to fans of those involved in making it. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Edward Burns steals the show...nicely directed too...","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While I can't say there's any real moral compass to the storyline (with everyone cheating on everyone else), if nothing else EDWARD BURNS can consider himself a Long Island Woody Allen--because the story told in brief vignettes is exactly the sort of tale that Allen likes to spin about ditsy relationships and dysfunctional human beings.It may lack the more subtle wit and dry humor found in some of Allen's works, but it's safe to say that if this had been penned by Allen Hollywood would be jumping all over it with awards.As it is, EDWARD BURNS as the older brother--a cabbie aptly described by another as probably the only English-speaking cab driver in the city of NY--is excellent, even if some of his motivations aren't crystal clear, like the casual decision to go to Paris with his girlfriend when both of them are clearly broke. MIKE McGLONE is fine as his financially solvent but mentally challenged brother who works on Wall Street but is hopelessly in love with a trashy blonde, CAMERON DIAZ, in another one of her bubble-gum roles.None of it rises above the level of a good TV script and the language is pretty salty throughout, dealing as it does with SEX almost exclusively. But Burns directs it at a good pace and it moves briskly to a satisfying conclusion which finds him reunited with his girlfriend after a series of misunderstandings.A pleasant way to spend an hour-and-a-half but don't expect anything great. Burns and McGlone were much better in THE BROTHERS McMULLEN the previous year. "},{"Title":"A good chill out movie","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is perfect if you've had a hard day and just want to chill out with an easy-going movie - it certainly did the trick for me - after working with 30 under fives all morning you really are very exhausted and this movie is just the ticket to unwind and de-stress - so ignore the criticisms and judge for yourself - granted it's nothing special but if you take it for what it is and don't try too read too much into it you'll find it an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny.","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's The One first comes off like an Irish-American version of Seinfeld, and has all the pace of a TV episode.However, once you settle into it, it is actually bearable, and even illuminating (especially the competitive brother's behaviour).And I finally got to see what everything sees in Cameron Diaz. "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an OK movie, it got terrible reviews so I was expecting the worst but it really wasn't all that bad.Some parts were extremely funny (mainly those involving the dad) but some parts seemed really pointless and those were the parts they stretched out for too long which was kind of annoying.In my opinion it is the kind of movie you should watch when it comes on T.V, if you spend money on it you may be disappointed. But really who takes romantic comedies all that seriously?? Don't expect too much from it and you won't be let down. It's just a semi-entertaining way to spend 97 minutes (or however long) of your life.  "},{"Title":"Don't compare this to _The Brothers McMullin_","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not Edward's first movie, so let's play it for the truth; this is his second, the follow up to the excellent Brothers M and is not what his previous movie was, except the ingenious, and funny, interactions between siblings in New York.What _She's the One_ lacks in true invention, it easily makes up for in cinematic experience.  The growth of the characters over the course of the movie, the twisting plot (at times easily, and so wonderfully predictable), and rich character interactions with smart dialogue, make this a much more fulfilling experience then almost anything else I have seen in the theater this year.  In fact, I am comforted by the fact that I have a copy at home that I can throw in when everything else seems so lame. "},{"Title":"Well-made, but nothing special","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Considering the talented cast, I was expecting a much better film than this. I just never cared about any of these characters, and so, I lost interest in what was going to happen to these people.  Plus, I just didn't find this comedy to be funny at all.  As a drama, it wasn't bad, and there were a number of scenes that worked very well, but as a whole, it fell short of my expectations.  I can definitely understand why some people would like this film, since it certainly is well-made, but it just didn't work for me.  "},{"Title":"Not Burns' best.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm probably unusual among viewers of this film in that I saw one of Edward Burns' other self-penned directorial efforts first, 1998's No Looking Back. But despite the presence of a more star-studded cast with welcome additions like Jennifer Aniston, Cameron Diaz and John Mahoney, this is clearly the inferior of the two films in my opinion. She's the One falls into the same slice-of-life category, though it has more comedic moments, but the characters and situations just don't seem as real and believable, and consequently I didn't end up caring for them when all was said and done. (It's entirely possible, however, that someone might jump into a marriage with Maxine Bahns after only meeting her a few hours before!) Many will find this film palatable, or even enjoyable, but for many others it will be a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie but it has a couple of flimsy situations","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *** Possible SPOILERS ***Overall, I thought the movie was pretty good, I liked the acting, they all seem very natural with one exception, Ed Burns. I've seem him in Sidewalks of New York as well, and I can say the guy is the same in both movies (slightly better in this one though), the same bored expression (I am the director, so what the heck, I can put this face all the time), the same monotone voice (as if he's speaking all the time into a tape recorder), not a bit of joie de vivre, very little or no passion, primitive development of emotions (his character's main problem was he couldn't get over seeing the hairy ass of his fiancee's lover, and from here all the afferent pain). I've always asked myself what would have happened if he dropped the TV he was carrying, or, if a brick hit him in the head. I am glad he didn't get sick though. Other than the fact that he's the director, I didn't see any reasons why, in both movies, the female characters fell for his character. He seemed to be good only at one thing... There is one scene when Cameron's characters says You're are the only English-speaking white guy driving a cab in New York. She's got a point here.I liked Maxine's character. She seemed to be more real than the Ed's emotionally log like character. I liked when she says I would rather live in the back of this cab than let something like rent get in the way of our romance.Also Jennifer Aniston and Cameron Diaz were great. So were the other actors.One thing that seemed to me (very) implausible was Fran's condition. His abstinence towards his wife (Jennifer Aniston!!), plus the lame excuse served every night for months didn't convince me much. If the characters were normal the whole thing should have exploded after one week...6/10  "},{"Title":"A story paralleling the relationships of two brothers","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie contains the typical wittiness of Edward Burns, which is both intelligent and amusing. As usual, Mike McGlone neurotic behavior lended to the comedy and Maxine Bahns' horrific acting destroyed each one of her scenes. She's the One is a good film, not that it was monumental to film history but there was some solid performances and well-written scenes John as the crotchedy father and Cameron Diaz as the promiscuous mistress were standouts. "},{"Title":"3 problems-the direction, the writing, the acting","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like Whit Stillman, there is little dramatic momentum in Burns's  film, but lots & and lots of chatting, most of it uninteresting.  Stillman at least has some flashes of wit & insight.The acting, aside from Cameron Diaz & John Mahoney, is shallow and annoying.  Little better than a  mediocre sitcom, but at least a sitcom has commericial breaks. "}{"Title":"Many Flaws","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   She's The One is an annoying Romantic Comedy, that is fine if the audience can look past the slowness of the whole story. Considering Cameron Diaz to be the star of this, she turns up on screen about five times in the whole film, each time being as laughable as the next. Jennifer Aniston, too, turns out to be a disappointment, but she is saved by her last couple of scenes, and her opening scene where she tells her busy husband that she will take of her clothes and he can do what he likes with her. John Mahoney is the only character in this fictional world that resembles any type nof realism what so ever. Whilst the others are left to ponder about meaninglessly, Mahoney is a great savior of this dull romantic comedy. Rating=2/5 "},{"Title":"AWFUL!!!","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's The One is one of the worst movies I have ever seen!  Please take my advice and don't waste your time with this!!  It's a so-so plot, sounding kind of interesting, but they try to make this good-idea-for-a-forty-five-minute-film into 1 hour and 36 minutes...and that (to me) seemed like 2 1/2 hours.  It literally put me to sleep! "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" All around bad movie. I start it with that, so people who have their hopes up for a good review can just read that and know that this movie sucked! The only reason why it got anything close to a decent rating was because of Jennifer Aniston&#x85;she was funny, adorable, and charming in her role. The writer, Edward Burns&#x85;may think of getting himself a different job. I mean, I've seen some of the movies he's written, directed, and acted in&#x85;and they have (for the most part) all sucked! Now, when he is just acting in a movie (like the movie 27 Dresses), he is actually good. Maybe he needs to spend a little more time with his work&#x85;or maybe he should just stick with acting and leave writing and directing alone for a while.For daily movie reviews visit http//kimsmoak.com/ "},{"Title":"Definitely not the one","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A guy is having an affair with his brother's ex-fiancée, and as a result leaves his wife, whilst the brother marries a girl he knows for three days. Sounds like there could be a decent film in there, but, well, this really wasn't.As a huge Diaz fan I was thoroughly disappointed with this effort, which seems to really get anywhere between the start and end. It's very drawn out and hard to sit through.Credit to Jennifer Aniston though, as she actually gave quite a good performance, and was one of the few characters you could really feel any connection to. The rest of the cast are fairly forgettable, though, in fairness, I doubt any better could have been done with the script.Overall, try to avoid it!! "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a waste - of $2, of about 2 hours, of a fairly talented cast and crew. While clearly a more polished, expensive and mainstream piece of work than the Brothers McMullen, it was clearly cut from the same mold but was an inferior piece of work. While there were certainly clever scenes and moments of real wit, on the whole this movie dragged, went no where, then died a predictable death. BTW - who thinks Maxine Bahns is an actress??? Don't even bother. My vote 5/10 "},{"Title":"Sweet girls...","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh my, the movie all in all fails to show some direction or surprise elements, the end is foreseeable and quite conventional.But the part that I really liked was the actresses, especially Jennifer Aniston and Cameron Diaz. Camerons smile really reconciled me with this otherwise average film. Though I never really could imagine her as a Wall Street broker... "},{"Title":"Tobacco Placement of the Year","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, the movie was pretty typical of the trudge that was coming out in '96. The usual brotherly angst, suffered when the two brothers have a combined intellectual age of 5 and think that whatever they've got can't be what they want - not a great ad for men or the movies.But the what made the movie a lot of fun for me and my wife was counting the number of gratuitous scenes of the young, attractive actors & actresses sucking on cigarettes. Particularly noticeable after seeing Malboro mentioned as a movie backer.It made us wonder how many other recent movies were packed with the sponsors carcinogens. Soft drinks, fast foods , and cars etc. are one thing to soft sell us on - but a sickly death - that just ain't nice. "},{"Title":"Typical 90s romantic-comedy pap.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What's to say about a film in which Cameron Diaz is one of the better actors? The unexceptional young cast varies from okay-ish to really bad, and the script isn't much better. Aniston tries hard but she is utterly talent-free, McGlone is simply awful, Burns's girlfriend is stiff and boring, and only the director Burns seems to have a little bit of charisma to be able to play in a film like this; however, he isn't much of a director (or writer). The film tries hard to be one of those clever, sophisticated, modern relationshit comedies but comes off as lame and pretty stupid (and rather unfunny). The humour and the dialog are strictly your average TV sitcom material, except that there is no laughing track to save the jokes; and this is no Seinfeld - it's more like Murphy Brown or Friends or some other nit-witty, pathetic show. The dialog is forced. I haven't laughed once during the film. The bubble-gum characterization also doesn't help. Many of the relationshits in the film don't make sense, and the film as a whole is just unconvincing; the acting, the dialog, the plot, the characters - practically everything.A few questions; how has Burns screwed up with his wife so that he had to apologize at the end? He didn't do anything wrong. Did he upset his wife because he punched his brother's face? Or was it because he picked up a TV set from his long-gone ex-fiancée? The viewer is actually required to accept this nonsense. Absurd. And what about Burns's wife flying to Paris? Where the hell did she find the money for a ticket to Europe if she is so goddamn broke? (Or maybe I forgot what it means to be broke for an American having only one car and eating out only six times a week.) But never-mind this little detail; it is not one of the reasons this film is so mediocre. It all comes down to the fact that too little talent has joined together to make a movie. It seems that in the 90s any Joe Shmoe can make a movie and be hailed as a writer-director-actor prodigy.If you want to read my parody/satire bio of Cameron Diaz (and other Hollywood morons), contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"Dry as a bone","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dry as a bone relationships comedy ends up being too parched to produce the humour needed.Heavily reliant on good performances, the cast (including Ed Burns, Mike McGlone, Cameron Diaz, Jennifer Anniston, Maxine Bahns and John Mahoney) do well, but there are no standouts.Writer-director Burns is unfortunately unable to endear us to any of his characters in She's the One, so you won't care who ends up with whom.Super cool, trendy yet uninspiring 90's fare.Sunday, April 16, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"Disappointed (**SPOILERS!**)","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really disappointed. The summary sounded ok and I was desperate for a movie over the weekend so I gave it a try. I wish I hadn't... The plot was basically non-existent, the dialogue boring and most of the characters were just annoying- I especially hated Hope and I only sat through the whole movie because I wanted her to be exposed as a fraud...I usually don't bash movies so badly, but this one was especially awful. I'm a romantic comedy addict but this one wasn't romantic and it wasn't funny. I'll be generous and give it 0/10! "}{"Title":"Eesh!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Truly, it's hard for me to fathom how a movie like this gets this kind of average rating. I mean, are there two movies out there going by the same title? Are other people watching a movie that has any redeeming characteristics? Because the one I saw didn't.  "},{"Title":"Not One I'd Watch","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some people have criticised the way this film is directed but my own complaint is the way it's produced and it's probably not a valid complaint because it's produced unreservedly for a female audience , though strangely enough male voters on this site have awarded it a slightly higher mark than females Apart from being the kind of movie that twenty something females can get together and watch on a Friday night with a bottle of wine it's difficult to understand the thinking behind it . Is it a star vehicle for Jennifer Aniston and Cameron Diaz ? If so why put two up and coming actresses in the same movie because they cancel each other out and Diaz role as Heather does seem slightly underwritten . In this type of movie people in general and men in particular never really act as they would in real life and while I'm not a fan of  social realism  in movies neither am I a fan of romantic comedies / chick flicks either Not to be to negative I did smile at at the line  She looks like she came from an island   Yeah Rhode Island  "},{"Title":"Burn's dullest Dud","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Among the no talent hacks stinking up the modern American Film, fromKevin Smith to Eric Shaffer, Burns is right down there. This has got tobe his watch-the-paint-dry classic of all time. I haven't seen hisrecent Sidewalks Of New York but the reviews indicate it's anothercontender.     Tom Petty said at some point he relized they had only brought him   on to do a soundtrack because they figured at some point he would  bring around his famous friends; so he just knocked the thing out as   fast as he could. Oddly enough, it's a very good CD. Cameron Diaz is   a hopeless actress, but has a likable quality thats hard to getaround.  Otherwise this is pure torture.      "},{"Title":"awful!","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got this movie because I like Jennifer Aniston on Friendsand wanted to see it! Very poor excuse for a movie...one of the worst ones I've seen....don't waste your time..even if you are a Jennifer Aniston fan... "},{"Title":"love aniston but REALLY CRAP STORY LINE","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston brilliant in Friends but unfortunately chosen wrong movie to further abilities.  Lost interest after fifteen minutes however watched entire film, awaiting excitement.  Still noticed crap storyline with no real intention to include the viewer.  Thanks for the attempt but have lost confidence in all involved in film. "},{"Title":"Not the Brother's McMullen, but still worth watching","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very good.  Ed Burns did a great job directing his second feature. He also did a terrific job acting and writing.  While it's not as good as Burns' brilliant 'The Brother's McMullen', it's still a good movie. The acting was great, especially John Mahoney as the dad.  The saga of an Irish Catholic family dealing with sibling rivalry parallels my life so I identified with the picture. However if you're not Irish Catholic, you may not like the movie as much as I did.  So I liked it, but I guarantee nothing. What I didn't understand is why he stole the title from a Bruce Springsteen song, but he didn't use the song in the movie, he just had a bunch of Tom Petty songs?  "},{"Title":"Smoking detracts from the movie","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A major distraction is that almost everyone smokes throughout the movie. Smoking not only adds nothing to character development, it actually distracts viewers from the dialog and the plot. In the past, smoking was used to distinguish good characters (protagonists) from the bad (antagonists), much as the good guys in cowboy movies wore white hats,while the bad guys wore black. In this movie, even the good guys (including Jennifer Aniston's character) smoke, and we found it to be unrealistic and distracting.It seemed to be just one long sickaret commercial.Can't help but wonder who was given how much money to have almost every actor in the movie smoke. "}]