[{"Title":"I was seriously impressed!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I'm a rather pedestrian person, with somewhat lowbrow tastes. However, I occasionally try to raise the bar on my cultural awareness. This movie was one of my attempts. I was in awe throughout the entire movie. I liked it so much that I got my own tape so I could see it again. This is a very thoughtful and emotionally striking movie. I saw it as a huge question to the viewer What is the depth of sacrifice to duty one can accept, can be asked to accept, should accept? As a military member, this is of course an important question to me. This question weighs heavily on the viewer of this movie.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Wartime Allied undercover operative suffers the consequences of his deception, in the process discovering something about himself and about justice.","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  It's so rare to find a literary work adequately translated to the screen that I may have rated this film higher than it deserves, but not by much. As a long-time student of Vonnegut's works, I have no hesitation in recommending the film to his readers, at least to those that love him as I do.  The casting is inspired Nolte is understated in triumph, bewildered in defeat, decisive in judgment.  Sheryl Lee is luscious throughout, but her handling of the treacherous Resi and her tragic crescendo almost makes you forget her beauty.  Alan Arkin delivers a totally lovable, but equally treacherous, Soviet spy.Do not feel you have to read Mother Night to appreciate the film; though, if you haven't read Mother Night, you will probably want to after viewing the film.Notice the shifts from color to black-and-white and back again, and don't miss the final symbolism of Campbell's noose.  Watch, also, for Kurt Vonnegut's cameo near the end of the film.Bing Crosby's White Christmas will never sound the same (I write in mid-December, when the song is getting heavy radio play, and it's driving me nuts).  "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  After viewing this film I tried to put my finger on what I truly appreciated about it and found its RESTRAINT to be what captivated me the most. Nolte, not noted for restraint, was amazing in his role as Campbell. His bewilderment, resignation and acceptance of his situation came through with well-crafted acting. The love scenes were remarkably tender. Nolte's responses to the surprises and twists fit the character perfectly. Watch for Vonnegut's cameo!  "},{"Title":"A Great film version of a great novel!","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The  folk who produced this masterful film have done fine service to a novel that stands as perhaps the best fiction work centering upon human guilt and human responsibility ever published. Nolte takes the role of Howard W. Campbell, Jr., and makes it his own, remaining true to Vonnegut's depiction of a man who has lost ALL (to and) for Love.No weaknesses in this fine adaptation. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie pleasantly surprised me. It has a touching, slightly off-center approach that never loses your attention. This is a movie I never heard about, but if you want a sleeper, this is it. Great writing, production, and acting. I highly recommend it for audiences who want something thoughtful. Nick Nolte, Sheryl Lee and Alan Arkin are marvelous. Why wasn't more made of this movie? "},{"Title":"A beautifully rendered movie, a credit to its star","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Seldom do I see a movie in which the star performs so well you can hardly believe he is an actor, but he comes across as the real guy he is portraying. I believed Nick Nolte was an American spy who seemed to renounce his American citizenship in World War II--when in fact he should have been rewarded for having served America so well after the war was over and he returned to civilian life. I have seen Nick Nolte in other movies, but never have I been so impressed with his depth of characterization as he manifests in this film. "},{"Title":"Best adaptation of a Vonnegut book","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Before this, the flawed Slaughterhouse Five was the best.  But this screen adaptation of Mother Night is very true to the book and keeps the comedy, mystery, and tragedy intent.  Thankfully it wasn't Hollywood-ized or idiotized a la the movie of Breakfast of Champions.  Another good thing about this movie is that you don't have to be familiar with the book to follow it (as I think you do for Slaughterhouse Five).  That's probably true of Breakfast of Champions also but they did such a bad job of that you're better off just reading the book and not seeing the movie!  Nick Nolte did an excellent job in this film.  "},{"Title":"The sadness and humor of Vonnegut translates to film?  Amazing.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I haven't read this book, but all through the movie I was awestruck with only one thought in my head  This is so Vonnegut.  I have never seen an author, all of the intelligence and life behind the workings of a novel, translated so well to film.  This movie had the same complexities found in Vonnegut's novels  the jokes were often meaningful and symbolic, and the dramatic events and symbols were often also jokes.Campbell was also a very Vonnegut character, portrayed perfectly by Nick Nolte.  He had all of the earmarks of a Vonnegut hero  lack of concern for political boundaries, ironic dark humor giving way to dumb inactivity in response to stress, and an unwillingness to push his version of reality on those around him.Overall, I was constantly surprised and impressed as I watched this movie. It was the same feeling I had reading Cat's Cradle, my first Vonnegut novel, as if the most perfectly oddball thing that could happen, he thought of THAT, and he made it real and important.  Yes, he has nothing but army surplus White Christmas albums.  So it goes! "},{"Title":"Sometimes oversentimental, but overall very good","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I haven't yet read the Kurt Vonnegut book this was adapted from, but I am familiar with some of his other work and was interested to see how it would be translated to the screen. Overall, I think this is a very successful adaptation of one of Vonnegut's novels. It concerns the story of an American living in Germany who is recruited as a spy for the US. His job is to ingratiate himself with high ranked Nazi's and send secret messages to the American's via his weekly radio show. But when the war ends he is denounced as a war criminal but escapes to New York, where various odd plot twists await.If Mother Night has a problem it's that it tends to get a little too sentimental at times. But for most of the film the schmaltz is kept to a minimum and the very strange plot is carried through with skill and aplomb. And there are some fabulous moments of black comedy involving three right wing Christian fundamentalists and a very highly ranked Nazi in a prison cell. Very much recommended. "},{"Title":"The only perfect book to film adaptation","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Mother Night is one of my favorite novels and going to see this I was expecting a huge disappointment.  Instead I got a film that perfectly portrays the irony, humor, elequence, and above all else the crushing sadness of Vonnegut's novel.This is certainly Nolte's best preformance to date.  He captures the defeat and selfloathing of Howard Cambell Jr. consistently from the subtle intonations of his speech to the held back tears behind his eyes.Alan Arkin is absolutly hilarious as George Kraft.  Sherryl Lee is haunting in her detachment from reality as Cambell's young lover.  John Goodman is understated and more than effective as Cambell's Blue Fairy Godmother.This Pinnocioesque story of Cambell trying to be his own ideal hero and unwittingly becoming his ideal tragic villian is a mature and vivid look into what we are as people.  And aside from that, it is one of the most deeply romantic films I have ever come across.  Cambell is the incarnation of both foolish and wise love.  And at the films sastifyingly painful conclusion, he finally learns what it means to be a real boy as his Blue Fairy Godmother grants him his wish.  And he realizes that...well, watch the movie and you'll see.Mother Night is without a doubt in my mind one of the best films ever made. It is a beautiful poetic story that digs deep within our emotions and is completely faithful to its original author. "}{"Title":"A Deeply Moving Film","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" There are numerous films relating to WW2, but Mother Night is quite distinctive among them In this film, we are introduced to Howard Campbell (Nolte), an American living in Berlin and married to a German, Helga Noth (Lee), who decides to accept the role of a spy More specifically, a CIA agent Major Wirtanen (Goodman) recruits Campbell who becomes a Nazi propagandist in order to enter the highest echelons of the Hitler regime. However, the deal is that the US Government will never acknowledge Campbell's role in the war for national security reasons, and so Campbell becomes a hated figure across the US. After the war, he tries to conceal his identity, but the past comes back and haunts him. His only friend is Wirtanen, but even he cannot do much for the avalanche of events that fall upon poor Campbell...The story is deeply touching, as we watch the tragedy of Campbell who although a great patriot, is treated by disdain by everybody who surrounds him. Not only that, but he also gradually realizes that even the persons who are most close to him, have many secrets of their own. Vonnegut provides us with a moving atmosphere, with Campbell's despair building up and almost choking the viewer.Nolte plays the role of his life, in my opinion; he is even better than in Affliction, although in both roles he plays tragic figures who are destined to self-destruction. Sheryl Lee is also excellent, and the same can be said for the whole cast in general.I haven't read the book, so I cannot appraise how the film compares to it. In any case, this is something of no importance here My critique is upon the film per se, and the film wholeheartedly deserves a 9/10. "},{"Title":"The advantages of being a fan","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Although I like Kurt Vonnegut, I'm not particularly interested in spy stories and I didn't know this one. The only reason I watched it was Nick Nolte, who is one of my favorite actors since I saw Breakfast of Champions and Hotel Rwanda. But the film brought me a pleasant surprise. Of course Nolte was great, but so was the plot. There was relatively little political intrigue, and much more focus on the moral question by reading his anti-Semitic radio commentaries with hidden secret messages to Americans, he in fact contributed to the general attitude of Germans (and, as it later turns out, Americans) towards Jews or Hitler. Which carries more weight, his service to his country or his unconscious contribution to anti-semitism? The dilemma is even more prominent as these words are never spoken, not even as narration. Howard Campbell Jr. (Nolte) is a person who learnt to hide his feelings so perfectly that he doesn't open up, not even in his memoirs. The inner conflict of such a character is almost impossible to portray - but with the help of excellent acting and photography, this film manages. There are other points to it, such as the humor or the ironical use of romantic clichés (like the song White Christmas), that make it real different from average American movies. I recommend it to everyone who is bored with Hollywood spy movies. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte plays the free world's best friend- and worst enemy","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is a very chilling, and for the most part, a well thought out drama.  I am very impressed at the film, not just for the plot and superb acting, but that such a unique movie was made.  Most movies involving a spy or a war are filled with a slick talking Brit or a mighty battle, but not this.  This isn't about this kind of war, its about the war between a man and his position in life, an American spy in Germany, posing as a supporter of an evil no one will ever forget. When the war is over, Campell thinks he will come home as a hero, but his true heroic stance must remain a government secret.  Going back to America, Campell meets Nazi supporters as well as Nazi haters, providing for interesting conflicts, both internally and externally.  Nolte more than pulls off the role, and fits the plot quite well for what it's asking. "},{"Title":"Did I miss something?","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I am amazed at the amount of praise that is heaped on this movie by other commentators. To me it was rather a disappointment, especially the combination of historical facts, fantasy and the main character's internal turmoil does not work at all (in Vonnegut's book Slaughterhouse Five and even in George Roy Hill's adaptation for the screen it does). Credibility is often overstretched. Too many questions are left open. Did I miss some central points? Or did I fail to spot the lines that supposedly connect the dots? A boy called Campbell, Jr., grows up in upstate New York. At home his father has many technical trade papers and one book. It has photographs of heaps of dead bodies in it. The boy leafs through the book, his dad doesn't like his doing that. What should this tell me? The family moves away from upstate New York to Berlin. BANG. It is 1938, the boy is a married man in Berlin and a theater playwright. What kind of plays does he write? In what language? Is he successful? His wife is an actress and looks glamorous. The parents move back to the USA and invite their son to do the same. He does not. Why? Because having grown up in Germany he feels more German than American? Because he is successful? Because his wife is? Because he likes his life there? Because he likes the Nazis? Because he is just plain lazy and doesn't like change? Don't ask me.Possibly, the man just does not care, is not interested in politics, is a kind of an existentialist. He states that he is deeply in love with his wife. He speaks of his Republic of Two (meaning he and his wife). There is little to no evidence proving his love for his wife in the movie, it much more seems a Republic of One.On the request of an American agent Campbell, Jr., agrees to broadcast anti Semitic Nazi hate propaganda to American listeners as a device for transmitting encrypted messages to American authorities who read between the lines. The crucial meeting with the agent on a Berlin park bench is short, unexciting and anti climactic, the decision to play along comes pretty easily with no explanation, the rise up to broadcaster seems to be uneventful and apparently fast.So now we have Campbell, Jr., presenting himself over the air as the Last Free American. The scheme for transmitting secret messages is fairly realistic and exciting - although one wonders what happened when Campbell, Jr., really and honestly had to cough, hiccup etc. (must have scrambled the messages terribly). Anyway, the Nazis lose, the wife dies (touring in the Crimean for German troops - I never heard such tours really happened on German front lines in WW II), Campbell, Jr., says he goes to the Russian front but does not go, is captured by an American soldier who recognizes his mug (how come?), is dragged to a sight-seeing tour in Auschwitz, is then released and resettled with the help of the Crucial Agent somewhere in the City of New York.AND THIS IS WHERE THE STORY REALLY STARTS BANG. From now on it is like a short story by Paul Auster. It is 1961, Campbell, Jr., lives in New York tenement as a has-been and mourns the loss of his wife. Nobody really cares - or do they? Yes, somehow they do, and his neighbors offer some sort of distraction. Auschwitz survivors. A painter. Some American supremacists &#132;discover him and want him to be their figurehead. They even find his presumed dead wife for him, or is she his wife? Anyway, in the end Campbell, Jr., calls in at the Israeli consulate, and they obligingly give him the Big War Criminal treatment, placing him in the cell adjacent to Adolf Eichmann's. He writes his life story and, once this task finished, hangs himself on the typewriter's ribbons without getting sooty the least bit.While I can see that there must be an issue of guilt and of loss, I just had the impression that the main character is a person who at all times is pretty indifferent to everything and hardly capable of love for anyone. So I found it difficult to sympathize for this looser who mourns his loss. Amazingly, many reviewers focus on his status as a potential war hero, having put his reputation at stake for playing the Last Free American. I assume according to them this took a lot of courage. As a matter of fact, however, the movie suggests that by accepting the assignment Campbell created for himself a win-win situation, as he would have been politically on the safe side no matter who had won the war. The danger of his being uncovered never comes up during the first part of the story.One might argue, that the whole story is a dreamlike fantasy and that nobody should bother with historical accuracy or a logical development of the story which explains everything. But even then it fails to make a point, primarily, I suspect, because the love affair in the Republic of Two falls completely flat. This is a pity, especially if you consider that the wife was played by Sheryl Lee, a talented, versatile and sensuous actress. She has much too little screen time and is forced to use a ridiculous German accent. Another somehow neglected aspect are the different texts (confession, broadcast and hidden messages), but I guess this is largely unfilmable. Maybe I should give the book a chance. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've ever seen.","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" At first, I hadn't read the novel so far and I hadn't hear anything about the author yet. But as I casually saw this movie, I was totally captive by the story. Already as the Jewish watchman primary said, that he knows no one, who have a bad conscience about the war except from Howard W. Campbell Junior, was such amazing objective and dissociates from simply moralizing the war. Terrific! And the fictitious story about the most effective spy for the USA in WWII, who have lost everything, that was important for his life, is wonderful emotional transcribed. This is the best story about the duality of humanity, I've ever heard about! The questions, this movie is introducing, are in my opinion very important for our society When does someone bear the guilt of something? What is guilt? Who is a hero and who is a felon? What is important in our life? Can you live without paying attention to the political changes? Is the protagonist guilty or not? These questions are more up to date than in the last 60 years. This is a must see for everyone, who have to think about the acception of war! This movie is a must see for everyone, who meditate, what matters in life and what doesn't... "},{"Title":"A nice try","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Given the track-record for adaptations of Vonnegut novels, I was pleasantly surprised at how faithful this film is to the original source material (with one glaring and near-fatal exception near the end). It is also handsomely-made and features fine performances from everyone involved, especially Nick Nolte. The problem is that the tone is all wrong. The power of Vonnegut's novel is its black humor, which is completely lacking here; in the novel, Howard W. Campbell's story, despite being rooted in WWII and the Holocaust, is a farce that ultimately brims over with moral outrage; here is it more of a arty tragedy. "},{"Title":"bringing cinematic depth and drama and super-dark comedy for a wonderful story","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I haven't yet read Kurt Vonnegut's Mother Night (though I've read other books of his, all outstanding pieces of satire and game-changing novel pieces). After seeing Keith Gordon's film adaptation of his book, it will be an immediate must-read in the near future. It's the kind of material that I'm sure if it wasn't made in 1995/96 as a film, it would be picked up right away today in the time period when many period post/present-Holocaust/WW2 movies are quite popular. Except that this is much darker, though even more resonant, about the nature of playing roles and the real underlying horror of living with life after war than say The Reader. It's about the very real danger of pretending in wartime, which is what being a spy in WW2 is really all about.It would be one thing if Mother Night had a script with a lot of emotional depth and complexity about the moral choice and constant role- even after the war ends- for Howard W. Cambpell (Nick Nolte), which is does. But it's also just a really strong feat of cinematic technique. Keith Gordon is not someone I usually think of as a director of really strong material (more-so I think back to him as an actor, oddly enough featured briefly with Vonnegut himself in Back to School), but this is a revelation. He takes the story of Campbell as a story of a fractured life a German propaganda master (the only American left in Berlin), who is actually a spy for the Americans but can never have his identity revealed, and was before a playwright who really belonged to a nation of two, himself and his wife (Sheryl Lee). It follows him from his prison cell, awaiting trial in Israel in 1961, as he writes his memoir and tells of his disillusionment about being a 'pretend' Nazi, and then in 1960 in semi-hiding in a New York apartment, which is where the bulk of the film takes place.Mother Night can be quite heavy, like on a level one might associate with the Pianist, but on another more emotional-cerebral level than the stark poetry of that film. Gordon, by way of Vonnegut, is trying to give us a strong look at a man who has nothing, except the memory (and then later a weird transposition) of his long lost love in a sister who has come back to him in NYC, so he's left to his own devices when he befriends a painter (Alan Arkin, very very good here), and then is found out as a Nazi-in-hiding by a white supremacist newsletter, leading wackos to his apartment. On the surface this should be just a straightforward spy story, but not a thing is straightforward. The 'something' of this man's life is staggering, but it's ultimately of his own choosing. Campbell is one of those characters that could be analyzed for hours on end, but the same conclusions might be reached (and, in a way, mirrors the line Goebbels said) the bigger the lie, the more people believe it. That is except for the select few who started the lie and know its secret and power.But oh, it would be one thing if it were just a wonderful and tragic-comic tale, or another if it were featuring some really fantastic performances (which is does Nolte is at his very best here, and Sheryl Lee, who we might remember from Twin Peaks as Laura Palmer, stuns in multiple roles, especially in the scene when she reveals she's not 'really' Helga). It's also a gorgeously shot film, with brilliant lighting and shots that reflect the state of mind of the character, or just the starkness or sickening colors of the time (watch the scene where an old Campbell watches a film of his younger self spouting out a rant, the juxtaposition of faces is great). And the music selections rise the level of tragedy. It could be argued some of the music is too much, but at other times it elevates the material past its own usual dramatic dimensions and makes it operatic, solemn about human nature.It's not always an easy film to take emotionally, and some of the twists do have that tinge of whoa as in any spy story. But it's the subversion from Vonnegut that sticks through, the way of taking appearance and performance, of life imitating art imitating life imitating death, and making it into something worth remembering. I have no idea just yet if the book is better than the film (or the other way around), but at the moment it's hard for me not to recommend this to anyone looking for a masterpiece of post WW2/holocaust storytelling. "},{"Title":"Fine, Ironic Tragedy.","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It takes a little while to get used to Nick Nolte's Nebraskan locutions before we can easily accept him as a famous intercontinental playwright. Once you get past the bar, it turns into a fascinating story of a man who loses everything while trying to do good.Nolte, an American, moves to Germany, marries a famous actress, and is a satisfied success in every respect until war is about to break out. He's visited by a jovial American, John Goodman, who persuades him to accept a post as an anti-Semitic radio broadcaster for the Nazis. Nolte has no politics but thinks it's a challenge to write a role that's almost impossible and then play it himself. Another American secret agent will modify Nolte's radio scripts -- inserting a cough here, a sneeze there -- that will serve as a code for the transmission of intelligence to the Allies. There's a catch, though. Nobody will know about Nolte's real role as an American agent except Goodman, Donovan, and Roosevelt himself. If he's ever uncovered, he'll be refused recognition by the Americans.Nolte plunges ahead and his vicious broadcasts are wildly popular in Germany. His adored wife, Sheryl Lee, knows nothing of what's going on, nor does she care. Nolte and Lee live in what he repeatedly refers to as a nation of two. The war ends and the trouble begins. He's captured by Americans who are bitter because of his betrayal. They beat him and leave him in the mud. He's rescued by Goodman, his fairy godmother, who sends him to an anonymous existence in Greenwich Village and sends him a little cash now and then.By 1960, he manages to cultivate a friendship with his neighbor, the painter Alan Arkin, who has also lost his family and claims the two now belong to a secret brotherhood. But his location and his identity somehow leak out and he is more or less adopted by a group of ancient Aryan racists -- led by a dentist and a priest. His house front and mailbox are painted with swastikas and accusations. He's beaten senseless by an ex-GI. But -- miraculously -- his beloved wife is returned to him by the ancient Aryans. Another catch it turns out later that it's not his wife, but rather her younger sister who has loved him since adolescence.The ending has him typing his memoirs in an Israeli jail in 1967 before his trial for crimes against humanity. It's not a happy ending.Nolte can talk with, but not see, the occupant of the cell above his in jail. It's Adolf Eichmann. Eichmann seems pleasant enough. He advises Nolte that it's a bad habit to type for fifteen straight hours. It's important to relax. You must learn to relax. Nolte laughs out loud and shouts, That's how I GOT here. The film is filled with such ironies. At one point in their relaxed conversations, Arkin tells him that in spite of everything I still think people are good at heart. I don't know if the movie was a commercial success but if it wasn't, that's the sort of thing that might have torpedoed it for a younger audience of theater-goers who may never have heard of Anne Frank let alone that supposedly final statement in her diary.The fact is that it's a movie for adults, and patient adults at that. The story moves slowly, there's very little violence, no car chases, no shootings, and people don't seem subject to manic speech pressure. A lot of it will probably slip past viewers who don't open themselves to its deliberate approach. Nolte refers to the war-time relationship between him and his wife as a nation of two. This is a pretty compact phrase. No doubt anyone could come up with a glib definition but it takes a little concentration to grasp its emotional import.It's a story of a man who loses everything -- his ability to write, his identity, his wife (twice), his sole friend, his country, his self respect. At one point he stops walking along a crowded New York street and simply stands there until after dark, when he is moved along by a curious cop. The reason he stopped is that he simply has no place to go. What Vonnegut is describing is far more than depression. I don't mean to sound condescending but it's the sort of feeling that's hard to understand in your youth. Adolescents might like to THINK they know what's holding Nolte in that one spot, but it really requires maturity and the quickened sense of finiteness that only maturity can bring.Remember Robert Frost's line about home being the place that when you go there they have to take you in? Well no place will take Nolte in. "},{"Title":"Nolte is a treasure","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I have yet to see a film with Nolte in it that I did not like. However, this being said, he's made a lot of films and I've seen just a few. In my minds eye I am keeping the images of his performance here and the one in The Thin Red Line. Nolte has a a full range of acting talents. When it's necessary to shout he roars like a wounded lion. His best moments are the ones I treasure in actors when he just emotes through facial, hand and body gestures, without saying anything. Having come to the conclusion that our present generation of actors, by and large, have no appreciation of what an actor can do without speaking, having no conscious appreciation of the mastery of Keaton and Chaplin, this generation of actors relies far too much on the mechanical wizardry of computers. Of course it is also just a sign of the times we live in. Had Chaplin lived in our times....who knows, he just might as well have become an aficionado of CGI tools.I have not read the Vonnegut novel from which this film comes to the screen. However, the plot is not so far fetched or convoluted that we cannot follow the path laid, even with all its surprises. Of course on the outset it appears preposterous. However, it is also not impossible.Consider these for starters A Spy at the Heart of the Third Reich He Extraordinary Life of Fritz Kolbe, America's Most Important Spy in World War II by Delattre and Prichard (look at Amazon for more details). Consider History Undercover Piercing the Reich American Spies Inside Nazi Germany DVD (I saw this here http//store.aetv.com/html/product/index.jhtml?id=75054) seems to be a History Channel production.So, is the story ridiculous? Far fetched yes, impossible, no. Back to the plot. Nolte's character is recruited and accepts an impossibly dangerous mission and unfortunately the script does not give us an adequate reason why he accepts. Was it a type of passivity, that he got sucked into this role as it says because it was the best story he had ever written and he got to play the part? That's a hard thing to imagine any of us would grasp. But, it was an unusual time and people did extraordinary things.The acting throughout the film by the entire cast is excellent and as people have pointed out Alan Arkin, always fantastic, is very good in a small role.I was really shocked by the ending of the film (no - I won't spoil it) and it made me feel terrible about the choice. Did this person feel that the road was finally over and that he had spoken all that was necessary and that any more would be chapters added to a life already filled with many burnt pages? Hard to say but it really jolts.Nolte gives one of the finest performances you can expect....the premises of the film make you wonder about a lot of things. It's very entertaining and provoking. What great movies should be. A bit long but worth it. By the way, the movie music has selections from one of the best living composers Arvo Part. "},{"Title":"Dark but fascinating","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Nick Nolte gives an excellent performance in Kurt Vonnegut's dark tale. Notle plays Howard W. Campbell who was a double agent working in propaganda during World War II. After the war, he lives anonymously until competing factions wish to dig up his past. As with much of Vonnegut's work, this is a meditation on the absurdity of war and those who use propaganda for their own aims. Nolte is fantastic - self assured and confident as the younger Campbell, and then broken and haunted as the older man who is forced to atone for the sins of his past. (7 out of 10)  "}{"Title":"The Limits of Personal Responsibility","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I've always loved Vonnegut because his books probe issues most people don't much like to think about. This film begins with an American who is beautifully and passionately in love. It ends with him broken by an ill-considered agreement that many would call noble, even heroic. What part does anticipation have in avoiding blame? Is simply being too distracted by love or duty to see the full impact of something an excuse? Is there ever an end to personal responsibility?  "},{"Title":"A perfect movie in every way","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  While the movie does feel a bit long at times, it is well worth it.  Gordon directs in a style that reminds you of Vonneguts writing styles.  Merciless, thoughtful, ironic, quirky, and dark, this is a film which will stay with you for quite a while, begging for answers to impossible questions.  Nolte, Goodman, and Arkin are all incredible.  Sheryl Lee is wonderful as well, in a role that will remind us Lynch fans of her Laura/Maddy days. Do not miss this one! "},{"Title":"Enjoy the Movie - Don't Try to Find the Book","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" If you've read Mother Night and enjoyed it so much (as I did) that you just have to see the movie, understand that you have to understand a fundamental element of Vonngut's writing - that beyond his story lies Vonnegut himself, and that you can't put a human mind on the screen. His whit and humor just cannot be transcribed by a screenplay or even the best acting performance. I believe that this movie exceeds in asking the key questions that Vonnegut poses in his book, but those frequent cynical moments of satire found on the page are not found on the screen. Does this mean that the movie misses the mark? Of course not. In my opinion, the movie succeeds because it does not try to recreate the experience of reading the book (this is not a medium for those too lazy to turn a page). It succeeds because it takes the fundamental elements of a story created by one of America's true artistic treasures and presents it in a a framework without pretense. I've seen other movie versions of Vonnegut books where the director obviously tries to channel Vonnegut's genius and loses grip on his own craft. I would not place this movie as one of the best I've seen, but it stands on its own legs as one well worth watching. By taking Vonnegut's voice out of the movie's narration or trying to insert it however it can, Mother Night tells his story brilliantly, and preserves the story's fundamental lessons without confusion, distraction, or disappointment. "},{"Title":"ambiguous, intriguing adaptation of the Vonnegut novel","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" American playwright Howard W. Campbell, Jr. (played with a musty obsolescence by Nick Nolte) lives happily in Germany with his actress wife, Helga Noth (Sheryl Lee) before the beginning of World War II. At the peak of his life, Howard is drafted by an American agent (John Goodman) to become a spy on behalf of the Allies; forewarned of the risks the job holds, Howard has everything to lose, but finds the offer irresistible. Following the death of his wife and the end of the war, Campbell camouflages himself with the anonymity of a solitary life in New York City, which muddies his neuroses even further. The central question (indeed, a question that has frustrated many critics) of the movie and Kurt Vonnegut's source novel is, is Campbell a hero or a traitor? Director Keith Gordon and screenwriter Robert B. Weide offer us clues, but no answer, and this ambiguity&#150;this NOT knowing&#150;is what keeps Mother Night fresh and interesting throughout. At the beginning of the film, Nolte portrays Campbell as intelligent and confident; by the end, he's either scared and uncertain, or scared and COMPLETELY certain of his contribution/debt to humanity for the role he played in the war. Gordon applies a certain icy sheen to the images of the film's first half, which complement his portrait of the Nazi bourgeoisie and captures Vonnegut's dramatic side. On the flip side, when Campbell is confined to his lonely New York apartment (which he affectionately calls purgatory) only to be discovered by a group of Nazis, the humor produced also is purely distinctive of the author, and provides a temporary respite from the dramatic tension that unfolds. The moral (even spiritual) paradox Mother Night presents doesn't lend itself to simple resolution, and to a degree, should be left ambiguous&#150;the black-and-white scenes of Campbell staring wearily into space as he is imprisoned in Israel suggest an unspoken contemplation we are not made privy to&#150;as Campbell is a character whose inner workings we wind up knowing very little about; the war changes him, coming back to America changes him, and meeting up with the Nazis in New York compels him to prolong the facade of his act even further, to the point where he can only stare wearily at an image of himself projected on a wall, spewing anti-Semitic bile. Perhaps that's the best reaction we could hope for. "},{"Title":"No pretences","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Kurt Vonnegut claimed that the film of Mother Night captured the spirit of his book so well that he could never think of Howard Campbell Jnr without visualising Nick Nolte in the part.Nick Nolte seems to get better with age. He is in nearly every scene of this film and sustains his character through the passage of more than thirty years.The story begins in 1960 with Howard Campbell Jnr awaiting trial in an Israeli prison for anti-Jewish broadcasts he made during the war. The Israeli authorities order him to write his memoirs and through narration and flashback his story is revealed.An American who grew up in pre-war Germany, Howard Campbell Jnr is a successful playwright when the Nazis come to power. Married to a leading German actress played by Sheryl Lee, he ignores the excesses of the Nazis by absorbing himself in work and love for his wife. Just before America enters the war, an agent, Frank Wirtanen played by John Goodman, convinces him to ingratiate himself with the Nazis in order to relay coded information to the Allies via radio broadcasts even though he will be regarded as a traitor by America and the truth will never be revealed.As cover for his espionage work, Campbell's broadcasts are vitriolic in their denunciation of the Jews and he becomes a hated figure among the Allies. At war's end, he is given a false identity and disappears back into American society. The story takes a number of unpredictable turns and ends with Campbell burnt out and disillusioned by a life over which he has had little control. He sums up his life with the philosophy that runs through the film, You must be careful what you pretend to be, because in the end you are what you pretend to be.In his guise as a Nazi collaborator, Campbell's tirades against the Jews have the power to shock even in the context of this movie. Not unexpectedly this was where a few critics felt the movie stepped over the line of acceptability. To dismiss Mother Night in this way is to miss its power as a cautionary tale that does not insult the audience by delivering easy answers or a predicable plot.The film comes close to falling apart in the New York scenes featuring the neo-Nazis. Treated as caricatures, they almost capsize the story. However if the filmmakers had attempted a more serious approach with this material, apart from missing the Vonnegut touch, they may have produced a work of such oppressive gloom that the ironic tone that underpins the movie would have been lost.One scene in Mother Night stays in the memory. Crushed by the forces that have buffeted his life, Howard Campbell Jnr stops walking and remains motionless for hours in a crowded New York street, because, as he says, There did not seem to be any direction in which I needed to go.Unique and challenging, Mother Night leaves an indelible impression, and Nick Nolte's performance is simply unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Another solid Nolte performance","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is another small film that Nick Nolte has turned into a must-see film. His subtle performance (especially when he's playing the burned-out hulk of a man), combined with the Kurt Vonnegut story (with more swerves than you might expect) and some great supporting performers (Sheryl Lee, Alan Arkin, John Goodman and a young Kirsten Dunst)and even its quirky use of Bing Crosby's White Christmas, make this a film that deserves more attention than it has gotten. From the production side, it also makes excellent use of black and white for the 1960 sequence and tells the flashback in color. Even if you are not a Nick Notle fan, the story alone is worth watching, especially if you are looking for an edgy thriller. "},{"Title":"A triumph for Vonnegut  a romance in the classic sense","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Having recently reviewed the DVD with Nolte's comments I must add a little explanation for the other reviewers who never got the motivation behind Campbell choosing to follow through with the spying.Campbell is a romantic through and through, he sees the action of spying in all its media created romance and not in the hard bitten truth that exists in real life. His relationship with Helga is just one more aspect of this romantic attitude and Helga is not at the center of his universe for long. Too many humans still consider war a romantic ideal filled with action and heroes. Humans forever tell themselves that they are full of good intentions, that we mean well and so does Campbell. He never truly understands how his part in the war (the little devices created for him that somehow offer information to the allies) fits in but most of all he fills a role, a role of a lifetime on a huge international stage he is by career a actor/playwright and there is simply no bigger role he could take. Again fulfilling a romantic ideal. But by playing the role as anti-Semitic propagandist he becomes so close to that role that he cant even separate himself from it, he becomes the role. Another romantic ideal. But his being manipulated because of this romantic leanings leaves him empty inside and longs for real life. The contact with the secret John Goodman's role as the blue fairy godmother does appear and save him from himself a couple of times, but ultimately cannot in the end save him.This is an excellent cast and Vonnegut's novel is entirely intact and he does have a walk on non-speaking appearance toward the end. But this film is for the thinking audience not the shallow end of the mental pool. "},{"Title":"Nolte at his finest...","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" While always a fan of Nick Nolte's, I have been frustrated at times by his choice of roles. However, in his portrayal of Howard W. Campbell, Jr., Mr. Nolte has achieved, perhaps, his finest hour. This adaptation of Kurt Vonnegut's brilliant novel shines the light upon an age-old question just how responsible for their actions are those who are only following orders? I believe Vonnegut supplies the answer in this story. If you're looking for a movie to really sink your teeth into, this is the one. At the time I saw it, I had remarked to my wife that I was tired of the garbage coming out of Hollywood; I'm glad I salvaged this one off the top of the pile - it deserved rescuing. "},{"Title":"Different and incredible","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I have not read the novel, or anything other by Kurt Vonnegut, but I am now intending to start. This grips you from the very first frame, and does not let go until the end credits start rolling. Taking you places you don't expect, the plot is interesting throughout. The pacing is spot-on, nothing lasts too long, and this does a perfect job of balancing between unexpected twists and allowing the viewer to process what we've seen. It is well-told and well-thought out. I've never watched a film that I feel I could particularly compare this to. It is intense and exciting, as well as funny and sad. The acting is excellent, Nolte absolutely shines, Goodman again proves that he doesn't have to go for laughs, and Lee and Arkin are spellbinding. I could go on, really... no role is treated to a less than stellar performance. The editing and cinematography are marvelous, and all of the visuals are great, with a couple of unforgettable and astonishing ones. I am going to go for other movies directed by Keith Gordon, as well as the other two apparently related to this, through the author of the books. There is one scene of sexuality, and a lot disturbing and unsettling content in this. I recommend this to anyone who can appreciate it; it is not pleasant. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Subjective Storytelling","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I've just finished listening to the director's commentary for this film, and I think the one big thing I got from it that I agree with is that this film, like Mann's The Insider, is completely subjective. It's from Howard's POV. So, any review or attempt at contemplating a set of comments about it, as Ebert did, is really about Nolte's character actually. If you feel, as he did, that the film does not work, then you're saying, I think, that Howard does not work. And, to be frank, you might be right. Howard's reasoning and personality really wouldn't stand up to professional mental treatments and analysis.But, hey, that's the nature of people.Andrew. "}{"Title":"Vonnegut on film. It is true!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A really good movie! Nice, if you just want to enjoy watching TV, nice if you are in the mood for some serious thinking. This is entertainment and yet this is art!Kurt Vonnegut put on the big screen! Need I say anything else? I've read the book and believe me this is the best adaption of any book ever!Congratulations, Mr. Nolte! There should have been an Oscar in that acting! "},{"Title":"Great book into a great movie!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The movie is a bit thin after reading the book, but it's still one of the greatest movies ever made. Sheryl Lee is beautiful and Nick Nolte is really vonneguty. He makes great job expressing the feelings from the book to the film. Not many films engage the feeling of the book as well as Mother Night does. "},{"Title":"be careful what you pretend to be, and the movies you pretend to understand","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I have just recently read the novel mother night, I've owned the dvd for some time now, and watch it every so often. Few movies I own and have seen have made me think and question as much as Mother Night has, I am amazed at the brilliance not only of Vonnegut, but of the translation of his text to screen.Do not rent or watch this movie on VHS, it must be done on dvd, and it must be accompanied by the director's commentary on the film. To see how they took a fairly simple story, yet complex in its substance and dialogue, and made it work so well, I think any viewer will be amazed.The omissions in the movie are few from the text, and do not detract from it much, the movie might as well be the book, and is the best adaptation I have ever seen. I so highly recommend both the book and movie together that it does a disservice to merely say go watch it.It will change you if you do. "},{"Title":"Very Faithful Adaptation of Novel","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Hard to categorize the film - perhaps it's an avant garde spy thriller?  Mother Night is a very good Vonnegut novel, and most certainly one of his easiest novels to adapt into a feature length film.  The film adaptation is very faithful to the original book.  The indie approach to how this film was produced is probably more effective than having a big Hollywood studio financing it.  These days, I doubt an intelligent novel like Mother Night would ever get the green light from the big Hollywood grindhouses.  And normally that is too bad, but not in this case.  Mother Night has tight direction and a solid cast.  Nick Nolte who seems to be getting better roles as he gets older, still has that everyman persona that allows him to take on a wide range of different characters.  Sheryl Lee is beautiful and great as always.  I always thought she deserved better than she got out of the entertainment industry.  I guess making your debut as a dead girl (Twin Peaks)with little air time isn't the choicest of roles, even if the TV show becomes a minor phenomenon.  Anyway this film is totally enjoyable and you don't have to read the book to understand the movie.  In fact, given today's geopolitical realities, the novel's premise may appear dated, and some younger viewers with little knowledge of history will be utterly confused by the events unfolding (I am talking to you, fellow Americans who are students and scoring the lowest in the industrialized world in geography, history, and lord knows what other subjects!). "},{"Title":"Three good reasons to see Mother Night","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" 1.  It prompts thinking about the nature of the individual in the society s/he inhabits.  If an individual sacrifices something for the good of the society, what is s/he owed?  What is the nature of a truly good act?  Name three other movies, off the top of your head, that show the slightest glimmer of realising that such questions exist.  Go on.  Try. See?2.  It includes Alan Arkin and John Goodman, besides the top-billed Nick Nolte.  Arkin and Goodman are highly underrated as dramatic actors (perhaps because they are usually miscast), and all three perform not only competently but memorably.  The suspension of disbelief is not threatened for a moment--and how often can you say _that_ of a two hundred million-dollar H'wood blockbuster?  (Answer not often.  Unless you have ripe cheese for brains.  No offence.)3.  Far from being implausible or impossible, it provides a nice complement for The Usual Suspects and The Spanish Prisoner.  Another look at the reality that is created for us, or that we create ourselves.  "},{"Title":"Redemption and payment for sin","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" What seems to be overlooked in the assessments of this movie is the human need for redemption and the slight hope to find redemption, no matter the price found within reaching for it.I had read the book long ago and when I committed my own act of betrayal, and followed the Mother Night plot of going into similar hiding. I came to the point that I had to take personal responsibility and confess. Strangely, it was the finest hour of my life.Prison life is kinder to those who confess to repent. Sadly, some never do from fear and mistrust. I understand that, as there is no consideration for confession to be found in the Real World other than my own small bit of personal pride for having done the right thing. Yet, there is a bit of Howard Campbell in all of us, playing as a false hero to ourselves. "},{"Title":"The Best Film Adaptation of a Vonnegut Novel","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Mother Night is the best film adaptation of a Vonnegut novel and a truly great film written by a great American treasure. It is a brilliant tale that also lends itself to an abbreviated film version. The film is wonderfully faithful to the novel but this doesn't mean you shouldn't rush down to your local library and check out Mother Night.One of the drawbacks of scaling down a novel for a screenplay is, of course, what is omitted. One of the most charming parts of the book was how Campbell's works were recovered by a Russian who spoke German who later plagiarized them in Russian to wide appeal. The man was later executed, not for stealing the ex-Nazi's works but for writing his own critique of the Red Army.Hats off to the cast. "},{"Title":"Same plot, but a whole different mood from the novel.","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I am a huge fan of Vonnegut's work and I'm very fond of this movie, but I wouldn't say that this is a film of the Mother Night that I read. When people say that Vonnegut is unfilmable, two things come to my mind. One is that many of his themes are very near the knuckle or even taboo, despite the accusation sometimes used against him that he chooses relatively easy targets for his satire. This means less every day that passes as far as filmability is concerned. Directors these days appear to revel in breaking taboos and I have high hopes for the version of Bluebeard now in production. Amazing to think that an innocent piece like Vonnegut's Sirens of Titan would probably have been the equivalent of R rated if filmed when it was published back in the 50s, for its violence, language and sexual and thematic content, though it's a tragedy that nobody's come up yet with a filmable script for it. And in the present economic climate, I also hope some director out there is looking closely at Jailbird, Galapagos and Hocus Pocus.The other thing is his narrative style, heaping irony upon irony upon irony but still making it hilariously funny. It seems impossible to objectify, and that appears to be the biggest obstacle to making great films of his great novels, because the little authorial comments that colour our response as readers are just not possible in movies without resorting to too often clumsy techniques like talkovers. Vonnegut suggested that there was a character missing from filmed versions of his work, himself as author/narrator. To its credit, Breakfast of Champions (the movie) tried to keep the comedy and came a bit of a cropper for its pains. As did another turkey made from a Vonnegut novel, Slapstick in an even more spectacular way.Still, there's nothing wrong with a director giving us his subjective interpretation of Vonnegut, and Mother Night is an excellent example of how, as another reviewer put it, a good director can add a visual poetry to a source like this. But so much of the humour is lost that though it's the same plot, it's not really from the same novel I read. If it had been, I'd probably have been rolling in the aisles laughing a few times watching it. For a reader of the novel, I think a chuckle even at the end is forgivable. The end of the film, however, is truly poignant, and I think one of the film's successes is that it can genuinely leave you feeling that you've watched someone walk a razor's edge between good and evil, and the jury is still out.Standing alone and of itself it's well worth a look. Technically there are some minor but glaring errors, notably in continuity, and it too often looks drab and theatrical, but most of the time it hits an acceptable note and occasionally shows considerable imagination and resourcefulness. The acting in general is of a high order, even if maybe the dialogue is by today's standards a little stilted.It survives quite well watching back to back with Slaughterhouse-5, and there is actually quite a bit more good filmed Vonnegut out there, mostly versions of his short stories - Harrison Bergeron, Who Am I This Time? and some other things like, of course, the misfiring filmed version of his very funny but disposable play, Happy Birthday Wanda June. Also there was an interesting piece , if it still exists, done in the 70s called Between Time And Timbuktu which Vonnegut apparently didn't like much, although he was involved in its production, because he felt it misinterpreted him in its generality. He said it reminded him of the bizarre surgical experiments performed in the HG Wells tale The Island of Dr. Moreau, but it did for many people serve as an excellent introduction to his work.But if the films don't make you want to go to the superior source material, they're not doing their job.As the man said, more or less, the big show is inside your head. "},{"Title":"We are what we pretend to be, so  we must be careful what we pretend we are","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Vonnegut's words are best experienced on paper. The tales he weaves are gossemar, silken strands of words and expressions that are not easily translated into a world of Marilyn Manson or Jerry Bruckheimer explosions. His words have been treated well once before, in the remarkable Slaughterhouse-5.Mother night is probably one of the three novels Vonnegut has written I could take to a desert island, along with Slaughterhouse-5 and Bluebeard.The film version deserves a 10, but the books are so permanently part of my interior landscape that I just can't do it...some of the scenes left out of the film are part of my memory... "},{"Title":"Great great movie","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is a superb movie... I am a great fan of Kurt Vonnegut and have read all of his books and I was surprised at how true to the book this movie is. Unlike Breakfast of Champions (blecch) all of the characters are as I imagined them to be.  Nick Nolte is excellent as is the supporting cast. Moving and intense. "}{"Title":"Haunting story, superb acting","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I felt drawn into the world of the manipulation of mind and will at the heart of the story.   The acting by Nolte, Lee, Arkin and the supporting cast was superb.  The strange twists in the Vonnegut story are made stranger by odd details. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, mesmerizing film. Absorbing and thoughtful.","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Although not one of Vonnegut's better known works, it is a definite must-see. Interestingly thought out, I especially like how the director filmed the couple in love.  "},{"Title":"Palatable but hard to swallow","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Mother Night tells the story of a man who is recruited by America to serve as a spy during WWII by communicating cryptic messages while working as a German broadcast radio propagandist. The film had good potential as a serious drama but is steered by director Gordon into a niche genre (eg dark farce or tragicomedy or dark dramady or whatever) making it difficult to connect with. Personally I enjoyed the film in spite of its capricious excursions into the absurd though I suspect many will find them annoying. A budget conscious and theatrical flick, Mother Night should be a good watch for Nolte fans and film buffs who don't mind having to work a little to get their head into a flick. All others should keep expectations low to avoid disappointment.(B-) "},{"Title":"Movie just like Vonnegut's novels.","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  It leaves you with a feeling of Is that the way it's going to end?  Some of it is so implausible and illogical, such as the business of Russian spies trying to get Howard away from the Israelis or that Resi would be a Russian spy trying to kidnap him.  It didn't work for me. Sheryl  Lee, however, made it worthwhile - a vision of loveliness in her nude scene, much as she was in BLISS. "},{"Title":"Oy Vey, Mother Night, With Much Fright **1/2","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Screenwriter Howard Campbell is recruited to serve in counter-espionage during World War 11. He moves to Nazi Germany and marries an actress whose family is faithful to their Fatherland. Campbell, portrayed well, by Nick Nolte broadcasts vitriolic propaganda for the Nazi Regime. Truth is that few people really know what Campbell is up to.The war ends and Campbell, with his wife presumed dead, heads to N.Y. for a new unassumed life. Here is where the picture falls apart. After several years, without anyone knowing him, Campbell assumes his real name.At this point, as stated, the film deteriorates into a series of unlikely events. A neighbor turns out to be a Communist spy. who notifies an Aryan supremacy group of Campbell's existence. The latter's dead wife suddenly shows up only to reveal later on that she is the sister of his dead wife. Still later, she is revealed to be a Communist as well. Too much is going on.Campbell eventually gives himself up and in flashbacks, sits in a cell and talks to Adolph Eichmann.We even have a suicide at the very end. I think this might have been to take the audience out of its agony from viewing all this.The picture really had a lot of emotionally sick people in it. At times, Campbell was so viciously good at reciting his anti-Jewish denunciations, you'd really begin to wonder if he meant it. "},{"Title":"Mother Night is a better story than The Pianist, so why didn't it win the academy award?","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie is a disappointment of Kurt Vonnegut's breezy and engaging novel, for the simple reason that it lacks what the novel has. Mother Night is a better story than The Pianist, so why didn't it win the academy award? The beauty of the book is in its grace and flow, and in the irony we share with the protagonist, not the premise which Vonnegut himself does not strain to prove, just kind of lets it kind of hang there. It would have been an intelligent hand indeed to guide this film away from the major premise that Vonnegut insists on in the foreword of the book, and himself does not insist on proving too thoroughly.The novel has a life of its own outside the premise, and that life is muted and distorted almost completely in the film, by the full commitment to the fulfilling of that premise.Vonnegut stated the premise himself, explicitly, so it must be true. We must be careful who we pretend to be, because we become who we pretend to be But a close examination of the book can reveal to a sensitive reader that it's beauty lies not in the major premise, but in the humanity that the reader shares with the protagonist through intense irony throughout. Vonnegut's genius doesn't hurt, but the truth of the matter is that for the most part the premise as it is stated by Vonnegut falls by the wayside to no detriment of the humanistic, ironic, and mind boggling developments, and, yes, finally implications of the novel itself.The story in the book is uplifting in the end, unless you truly believe the last sentence, and in the film it is a downer. The melodramatic hoops this film is forced to jump through is unforgiving. From the sappy music that underscores almost every scene without which the scenes would not work, to the absolutely worst scene in the film where Resse commits suicide, this film cannot find it's center and, I think, it is because, interestingly, that center is not in the book. The film looks for it, looks for it in various climaxes, like when Resse commits suicide, fitfully and futilely I might add, and Howard J. Campbell's personal demise, but those climactic scenes don't climax the film as a whole because even in the book they are not meant to.To me, Campbell getting his pardon at the end is the pay off to the patient, expectant, and empathetic reader, but in in the film what we see is a guard blowing cigarette smoke over Cambell's dead body. The premise is proved, but I would sincerely ask to what effect? Amazingly, the most amazing thing about the film is Vonnegut's cameo, that is, if you know what he looks like before hand. The film, moment by moment, sucks all of life out of the book, that which gave it an easy breeze of self-confidence and made it exhilaratingly light reading, despite the subject. What it lacks gravely is the élan vital, and again the irony, of the book which for various reasons has it and the film does not.I hope I have at least begun to make the case that the permeating premise is the fait accompli that is the ruin of this project. What the producers achieve by taking and holding the story in its death grip is unfortunately what they got. "},{"Title":"Another failed attempt to bring Vonnegut to the screen","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Here's an exercise; Read a Kurt Vonnegut novel, notice the pathos and poetry, the black humour, the beauty of the language and ultimately the feeling of having become a little wiser about the Human race.Now watch this detached, soulless drudgery of set pieces and three act tedium. Nolte destroys any attempt trying to portray the tragedy here, going for a weary and bored performance. And weary and boring it is, you can see where the money has been spent but not one cent results in translating Vonnegut's poetry to this medium.It's sad to think of the few million dollars that was flushed down the tubes for this inept and insipid waste of film. It's one and only saving grace is a moving glimpse of the author as a passerby, in ten seconds of silent screen time Vonnegut himself packs more pathos and humanity than this turgid effort manages in nearly two hours. "},{"Title":"Adapting Vonnegut to Screen is Usually a Bad Idea","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" When one reads Mother Night, there is a sense of worldly indifference amongst all its main characters. Kurt Vonnegut's Howard J. Campbell Jr. is a broken old man who has lost any idea of his own identity. In fact, the only truly fascinating aspect of Vonnegut's Mother Night is the exploration of Campbell's internal evolution from apathetic artist to American spy to devout Nazi to depressed prisoner. The plot, quite frankly, is just a cliché tale of a wartime spy not being appreciated at home.Unfortunately, this movie failed to do anything but capture this clichéd plot. Campbell's schizophrenic analysis of his own behavior, his commentary on the behavior of 'the Eichmanns of this world' and his hilarious, dark prose are all neglected in the adaptation of Vonnegut's masterpiece. It looks as if Robert B. Weide (screenplay) simply jotted down a few key moments from the novel, and left it to a poor group of actors to figure out what to do with them. And while IMDb users are heaping praises upon Nick Nolte for this performance, it was atrocious. It is obvious that Nolte has never read a Vonnegut novel. Vonnegut's Campbell rarely displayed emotion, but Nolte was showing off his amateurish acting abilities like this was the final scene in Hamlet.The only value that Mother Night (the movie) can offer is a few well-thought out, richly symbolic scenes. Beyond that, Weide and Keith Gordon failed to bring any of Vonnegut's greatness to Hollywood. "},{"Title":"excellent, but awful","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I went in knowing this was an adaptation of a Vonnegut novel, but thought I would appreciate it anyway. From that, you might surmise that I'm not one of Mr. V's big fans, and you'd be right. Rubbing your face in high drama is what he's about, and I get enough of that in real life to suit me.But the storyline is an intriguing one, and I thought it would make a good two hours of escape. I will readily admit that it was flawlessly executed; even John Goodman, who is not usually my cup of tea, did his job very well. Nick Nolte especially gave an excellent accounting in a very difficult role.So why didn't I really like it? For the simple reason that it was depressing from start to finish. Yeah, I know, it was supposed to be.Well, I have many possible reasons for going to see a film, but getting bummed out is not one of them. I get enough of that in reality.So, even though it was really well done, I cannot recommend this film as being good entertainment value, unless your day has gone far too well and you need a bout of depression to offset it. "},{"Title":"Unmet Potential","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Such vast potential, precious little done with it. As a disclaimer, I will say I've never read Slaughterhouse 5. Still, judging the movie based upon what it was, it just was pretty horrible and didn't have to be. I rented it because I had an expectation of a smart, slow-paced, political semi-thriller. What I got was weirdness and disappointment. The way I would describe it would be, some really brilliant good parts mixed with a lot of garbage that wasn't well thought out. Nick Nolte was great, his character was well written, then at some point in the movie they punted the rest of the way. Anyway, I don't give many points to movies that could have been good. This one's getting a 5.  "}{"Title":"an awful movie, implausible even in its own terms","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In order to enjoy Mother Night, I recommend that you have a lobotomy first. This has to be one of the most unpleasant and unbelievable movies ever concocted. More is required of the viewer than the usual suspension of disbelief hence my recommendation of a lobotomy. But don't do it; you probably would not understand the movie afterwards, only now the reason would be having too low an IQ, whereas the previous reason was having one that was too high. To focus on just one of the many implausible, indeed absurd, features of the movie, the chief character, played by Nick Nolte, is a German-speaking American asked by the American government to pose as a Nazi in Nazi Germany; via his hate-filled radio speeches, he transmits surreptitious messages to the Allies that help us win the war. He is married to the daughter of a vicious Nazi policeman, who really believes in Der Fuehrer and Nazi ideology. We are given no reason to doubt that the daughter was successfully indoctrinated in the Nazi hatred of non-Aryans. So we have to wonder about this couple presented as being very much in love what do they talk about? How does Nolte manage to love his Nazi wife?To focus on just one of the many unpleasant features of the movie, at the end Nolte is given the opportunity to prove to the world that he was indeed a double-agent. To say the least, he squanders this opportunity. I guess we are supposed to believe that he does so for a noble reason - to keep his spy activity a secret, so that prospective future American spies can engage in the same work - but to me this rationale doesn't make much sense and it is painful to watch the Nolte character accept it, if that indeed is what he does. You would think, after all he has been through, that he would want to educate the world as to just how painful the life of a spy is, so that prospective future spies would appreciate in advance what they were signing up for. Before signing up, these potential spies could apply moral pressure to the governments of the world that seek to recruit them they could demand that these governments support them when the mission is complete, instead of abandoning and renouncing them. "}]