[{"Title":"I like Twister","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"107 out of 136 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I get a lot of stick from friends for saying this, but I really like Twister. I enjoy a good thoughtful film as much as the next stuck-up film snob, but I also love damned good action flicks. Twister is a big dumb summer blockbuster with no pretensions whatsoever. I *like* the fact that the money is all up there on the screen - lots of tornadoes ripping apart farmhouses and throwing trucks around. I *like* that it's one long chase movie. I *like* looking at Helen Hunt's beautiful face. I saw Twister twice at the cinema, and at least three times since - and I've enjoyed it every single time. Can you get a better recommendation than that?Twister will never satisfy some people... in particular, those who watch it, for some strange reason, expecting a cerebral masterpiece. Enjoy it for what it is One of the best summer blockbusters ever.  "},{"Title":"I Have No Idea Why People Are Bashing This Movie","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"103 out of 138 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister, in my opinion, is a really good action thriller. Personally, I don't know how people can bash this movie. I thought it was an amazing film!! The acting is great, the special effects are excellent, the action is intense, and this film actually has a great storyline to it. To me, a 5.9/10 rating for this film is atrocious. I think this film deserves so much better!! I was thinking of somewhere in between a 7 and an 8/10. But I have my opinion and other people have their own right?? I just find it hard to believe that people don't like this movie.Twister has everything I like in an action movie. It has amazing special effects, heart-stopping action, and a reasonably well written storyline. It even has some heartbreaking parts which almost brought tears to my eyes and I don't usually cry during movies. However I almost cried during Twister. Jan De Bont has created a very enjoyable that maybe doesn't come up to masterpiece material, but still is a memorable action movie that won't be forgotten for a long long time. "},{"Title":"The darker side of writing a script for a disaster movie","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"82 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister, one of the most successful movies of the 90's, mainly due to it's special effects and a lot of people's want for a natural disaster movie that is fun to watch, this was an extremely popular movie. I was only 11 when the movie was released and I was absolutely in love with it, in fact right after the movie was done, I wanted to become a storm chaser. That's how much I loved this movie; I grew up and forgot about the movie and decided on a new career. But I saw the DVD on sale and thought about how much I enjoyed the movie when I was younger, I'm sure it would be just as much fun to see it again. I have to say this wasn't as awesome as I remembered, in the theater it was like Oh, my God! Look at that flying cow! A house just flew across the road! That is so cool!, now on my TV screen I was like Oh, wow, look at that cow. How the heck does a house fly across the road? Why isn't this as cool as I remembered it? Not to mention that the story wasn't as good as I remembered, granted I know that they had to fit in some kind of story with the whole plot of the twisters, but a lot of this movie is just plain unrealistic.In June 1969 on an Oklahoma farm a tornado warning is issued, the family seeks shelter in a storm cellar as an F5 tornado strikes. However, the storm is so strong that the locks on the cellar door fail and the father is caught up in the storm and killed as his daughter struggles to catch a glimpse of the powerful storm. Years later, Dr. Jo Harding, the father's daughter, is reunited with her estranged husband; Bill Harding. Bill is a former weather researcher and storm chaser who has taken a job as a weather reporter. He is planning to marry his new girlfriend, Dr. Melissa Reeves, and arrives at Jo's research lab seeking Jo's signature for the final divorce papers. Bill discovers that Jo has built a tornado research device called DOROTHY based upon his own design; the device is designed to release hundreds of sensors into the center of a tornado to study its structure. The team later meets up with Dr. Jonas Miller, a smug and unscrupulous fellow meteorologist and storm chaser. When Bill discovers that Jonas has invented a device almost identical to DOROTHY; he vows to help Jo deploy DOROTHY before Miller can claim credit for the idea. Bill and Melissa join Jo and her eccentric team of storm chasers. Tensions rise between Jo and Bill when they have several close calls with dangerous tornadoes as they try unsuccessfully to deploy the new device. So how does Twister hold up over these years? Not so well, the effects are still amazing, but that's about it. I do have to admit, even though it's a bad movie, I still enjoy it like crazy. I think because if you let go of how unrealistic it is, you can just have fun with that want of destruction and chaos. Granted I know this movie is a bit stupid our two leads, Bill and Jo, survive the impossible facing an F5 twister, the twisters always disappear as our hero's are in danger, Bill's fiancé puts up with quit a bit before realizing that he is a jerk for putting her through all the danger with him, Jo, a scientist, thinks that tornado's are serial killers, and not to mention that this was a record breaking day with numerous twisters. But still as bad as the acting, as bad as the story, as stupid as some of these situations may be, it's still a fun movie to watch and I think I wanna be fair with the rating just because it is mindless entertainment. It's a classic 90's disaster movie and besides, it has flying cows, what other film will give you that kind of situation? But it's all good I think they were taking the cows to McDonald's anyways.7/10 "},{"Title":"WHAT THE HELL IS EVERYONE'S PROBLEM WITH THIS FILM","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"40 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ever since this films release in 1996, its very title has become synonymous with Bad films. Its been labelled stupid, loud, dumb and every other thing you can think of. Whilst I admit that the script aint hot and there's no real story in the film, the action is great, the special effects are brilliant, the film moves fast and provides a slambang rocking good ride. Im sorry that more films like this are not made. I love this film. When i saw it at the theatre, i was blown away (no pun intended). Bill paxton does a good job in the lead (yeah people have said that he is dull and that they should have found someone with more charisma. PUHLLLEASSSEEE). I'll watch this film a thousand times between now and the day I die. And for all the geniuses out there who call this film Crap. I hope you all get swept up in a windstorm, I really do. GREAT JOB JAN DEBONT "},{"Title":"It was windy.","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"45 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Solid follow up film for former cinematographer (it shows) Jan DeBont who's previous film 'Speed' redefined the action genre and added, well, speed, to the mix. He has a talent for making films that are extremely kinetic and seem to actually MOVE and Twister is no different.The story is simple, we follow a group of storm chasers around tornado alley for 48hrs during the most active otbreak of tornao activity on record (not unlike what actually occured this past month in Oklahoma) all the while watching an estranged couple played by Hunt and Paxton fall in love again amongst the windswept action.The tornados are awe inspiring works of digital wonder created by ILM and really come across as powerful. They're not so much portrayed as ordinary storms, but rather angry demons from above who wreak havoc on the landscape, they even roar like lions at times! Great film. And to those that think this film doesn't translate well to the home, you obviously don't have a Home Theater set up with Dolby Digital and DTS 5.1! The film RIVALS what I got at the theater in my home! "},{"Title":"Great Action/Adventure Film!!!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"53 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm really shocked at how low the rating for this movie is on this site.  What is wrong with you people?  The movie is awesome!  It's a fun movie with excellent special effects.Some people have complained about the story...I don't get it, the story seemed fine to me, given the nature of the film.  The movie is about tornados!!! It's not supposed to be a deep and thought-provoking film, it's just meant to be entertaining, and it most certainly does that!!!  I thought the story was excellent and really kept you interested in what was going to happen next, the movie flows very nicely from scene to scene, from start to finish.  Also, I have to mention (before I forget) that I loved Jo Harding's (Helen Hunt's) group of storm chasers, they were a great bunch of interesting characters!  I loved them all!!!The actors all did a fantastic job and there were a lot of them that are worth mentioning.  Bill Paxton does an awesome job as always.  Helen Hunt if fabulous, and looks just as beautiful as ever.  Jami Gertz also did a fine job and looked fantastic.  Philip Seymour Hoffman did a really good job, this seems like such a different role for him and he nailed it!  Cary Elwes is one of those few actors that can convincingly play a bad guy and a good guy and is also just as good in comedy films.  He's a very talented actor and did a great job in this film.  I won't mention all names, but all of the storm chasers did a great job with their roles.  As for director, Jan de Bont Another great film to add to his resume!  I can't wait to see his next film!  And, I have to mention writers Michael Crichton and Anne-Marie Martin as well, they both did a great job with the story!If you're looking for a fast-paced, energetic, interesting, fun movie with some killer special effects, then this is the movie for you!  I would definitely recommend this film to just about anyone.  There is rarely anything objectional in the film and I would imagine that this would appeal to a great deal of people.  I definitely think you should see this film.  I really hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"Twister, not just a party game","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Being from the west coast I never had a whole lot of interest in the natural phenomena showcased in this film. Where I live an inch of rain is headline news. I had absolutely no interest in Twister until I saw it was on late one boring night. Having nothing better to do, I obliged the television and payed attention. I found Twister to be what I call a nice bedtime movie. While it failed to anthropomorphize the tornado the way Backdraft successfully did with fire, the characters were well fleshed out, there was a healthy balance of comedy, drama and (at the time) cutting edge special FX. I found that as long as the viewer came in with no expectation, Twister would be a fun and easy to watch nappy time movie, perfect for watching on a rainy day, curled up with a blanket. So to sum everything up, don't expect an epic, emotionally charged extravaganza, but if you are willing to accept a decently woven story with reasonably believable characters, and have a rainy afternoon to kill, check out Twister. You shouldn't be too disappointed. "},{"Title":"don't try this at home!","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"29 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Did everyone feel the way I felt? I was rooting for the twister. I live in Madisonville, Ky, where in 2005 we had the strongest tornado (F4 but some say F5) in the country that year. Amazingly enough, we did not lose a single life in that hellstorm. But...we did not have the bland characters living in our town that live in this movie. And the final scene? Where Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt strap themselves to the pipes? Well...just so you know...a tornado of that intensity is going to rip concrete from the ground, making you forget it was even there. It is going to pick up combines and toss them like children's blocks. It is going to suck their eyes out of their heads. It is going to strip the skin from their bones. And that isn't even taking into account the damage from the blowing debris! A piece of straw is going to be slung at them at 150 mph. Sand is going to strip their clothes and flesh from them. Sounds kind of biblical...but basically, remember, you are not going to survive. For them to survive, and then just sit there and *smooch*, well, it was sickening. If that had actually happened, kissing is farthest thing from your mind--you want to know where your change of pants is at... "},{"Title":"The great special effects save this film!!!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who saw this movie in the theater or on a big screen TV will agree with me that Twister is an awesome thrill ride from beginning to end.  However, if you watch this movie on a regular TV screen, you definitely don't get the full effect.  Sure the plot is about as predictable as a Bugs Bunny/Elmer Fudd cartoon.  And sure Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt weren't A-list stars when this movie came out.   However, the special effects and uniqueness really make this film worthwhile.  You have to remember that when this movie came out in the summer of 1996,  it was a considered a big event movie.  Back then, a big budget/big event movie was considered a huge risk(i.e. Waterworld) and only came out about every 6 months.  Nowadays, it seems like every movie is or tries to be a big budget/big event movie.  Back then, the special effects in Twister were considered amazing and it was the first disaster movie to come out in a long time.  Nowadays, most movies have some kind of special effects in them and there are tons of disaster flicks made since Twister.  So, Twister was a ground breaking film and it really helped pave the way for all these high budget/special F/X films out right now.  "},{"Title":"Technical Inconsistencies","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"46 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS WITHIN!Prolog· It is implied, later in the film (during the dinner scene at auntie's) that this night-time tornado is F5 intensity. This is extremely unlikely. There's just not enough heat/lapse-rate (and consequent thermal instability) without sunshine. · The fluid dynamics of a guy getting sucked out of a storm cellar just don't work. It would require too much pressure differential in an enclosed space. Stick a small piece of paper in a pop bottle, then try to get the paper out of the pop bottle by blowing. Blow across the opening, into the opening, try anything. Trust me, it just won't work.First tornado encountered· Mammatus clouds, which they admire outside the gas station, generally indicate that a storm is waning, not at peak intensity as suggested here. · The tornado shown does not emerge from a wall cloud, and thus is probably a land-spout. Therefore it's unlikely to be F2 intensity as implied. · Storm chasers do not drive like idiots. They're very responsible and safety conscious. Even when deploying damage-path instruments like TOTO they do not deliberately get closer than ½ mile or so. · An F2 tornado cannot pick up a truck, just push it around some. · If it ropes out as shown, it's very unlikely (but not impossible, admittedly) that it could reconstitute, as it apparently did. · The tornado debris cloud varied way too much in size. In the final seconds it looked to be only a few meters in diameter. Not realistic. · Hiding under a bridge is a really stupid idea. Storm chasers would only do something like that if no other option was available. Second tornado· The second tornado appears to be coming out of a wall cloud (good for them!), but there's no such storm-chaser terminology as 'sidewinder'. · There's no way they could assess the Fujita ('F') number just by looking at the tornado. Dumb! No storm chaser would ever say something like that. · The tornado does not move realistically. Spawning of the second funnel is unrealistic. There's no way a second tornado could 'split' from the first as shown. The fluid dynamics of rotation would prevent it.· Hunt says they're 'in the flanking line.' They could not be anywhere near the flanking line if they're 'under the core' (mesocyclone, I suppose that means). · The whole 'cow' scene, while amusing, is completely unrealistic. · They survive a direct hit from an 'F3' tornado and nothing happens? Don't make me laugh.Dinner at Auntie's· I don't even know where to start with the absurd banter in this scene. The whole 'Jack Daniels' anecdote is absolutely impossible. Not even close to possible.Third tornado· You can't guarantee touchdown just from Doppler radar. You can determine the existence of a vortex, but there's no way to say whether it's on the ground or in the air. · There's a good picture of wall cloud here! One good moment. · Where the hell is the debris in this scene coming from? They're too far from the tornado and not anywhere near the RFD. · The tornado moves too fast. Not realistic. · When it hits the power lines, what the hell explodes in a ball of fire??? · Cloud motion is not particularly realistic when the tornado lifts.Fourth tornado· Once again we have an unlikely level of intensity after dark. · What are these people, living mobile home parks? Every damn tornado in the state heads straight for them! · There is a bad misconception that the visible part of the tornado, i.e. the condensation funnel, is where the wind is. The actual area of strong rotation may be many times larger and strong inflow can extend even farther than that. The visible funnel is only where the air pressure is low enough that the air is at or below dew point. In dry air, tornadoes may not necessarily have a visible funnel at all, at least until it is filled with debris and dust. · 'Downdrafts and microbursts'??? What the hell is he talking about? They took a f***ing direct hit from a funnel. There were no 'downdrafts and microbursts'&#133;The propeller idea· I'm not sure about this. It might actually be a good one. Mind you, I can't picture a scientist designing objects intended to be carried aloft by the wind that are spherical, which is the most aerodynamically efficient symmetrical shape. The logical design would be something with a high drag coefficient, not a low one (which a sphere would be), so that they would be carried more easily by the updraft. It wouldn't be necessary to make little propellers, though. Just anything that would increase drag.Fifth tornado· Sure is good of that tornado to hang around for hours until the storm chasers are ready! The longest-lived tornado on record lasted less than 75 minutes. Oh, and they casually drive by the thing on the way to their deployment point. They go from bright sunlight to within a mile of a huge wedge tornado, then back into sunlight, apparently far enough away from the tornado to prepare their instruments, then easily drive to within a few hundred feet of the thing. Yeah right.· By the way, just because the sensors spill out onto the road, how come they're no good any more? Why do they have to be inside that barrel thing? They'd still get sucked up into the funnel even if they're scattered on the road&#133; · How can they drive through the flaming wreckage of a tanker truck and not hit anything? · Quibble Explosion of Jonas's truck looked really fake. · Continuity error Part of combine harvester hits their truck on the passenger-side windshield. In the very next shot the windshield is intact. · There is no way the truck could drive through even a flimsy frame house and come out the other side undamaged. · Too many problems here to list. In almost all scenes, they're way too close to the tornado. They would be right in the inflow, and getting their asses kicked by it. · Getting caught in an F5 tornado unprotected Probability of survival very low. Probability of surviving uninjured just about zero. Wind speeds inside an F5 tornado are between 250 and 317 m.p.h. Getting hit by even a small piece of debris would be like getting shot with a gun. Even in the core of the tornado they look like they're getting buffeted by winds perhaps 40-50 m.p.h. Yeah, right. If either of them got hit by even a small rock traveling at 250+ miles per hour, they'd be dead as fried chicken. · Following the encounter, the tornado doesn't rope out, but dissipates in a matter of seconds. Pretty, unlikely. · In the final scene, it is apparent that the tornado passed within a few meters of the farmhouse, yet the house is undamaged. Possible, but very pretty unlikely. "}{"Title":"Nice pics of Oklahoma and fun special effects","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Having lived in Oklahoma all of my life, I was glad that they filmed a lot of it here. The film shows what it's really like here in rural Oklahoma, mostly green rolling country with trees, hills and water, with a few oil pumps and windmills thrown in. I don't need to add anything to the comments about the lack of scientific accuracy do I? My wife and I always note with interest that they occasionally get a few things right. The reason I will watch this movie again from time to time is that it is FUN. I love the exuberance of Bill Paxton's team; I know people like the Philip Seymour Hoffman character and I myself LOVE watching the buildup of a thunderstorm, seeing the sky turn green, and the way the air smells and feels before and after one of our storms. Yes, tornadoes are deadly threats, but we ALWAYS have warnings here. There would never be a drive-in theater full of people in cars with no idea that a funnel is on top of them, but, in this movie, that's beside the point. It's pure fun watching the screen ripped apart while Jack Nicholson is wielding the ax. If you are expecting true life reality, this is not your movie. Just go for the spectacle! The bit of reality in this movie, that Oklahoma is lovely in its own way, and that some people love thunderstorms and tornadoes was enough reality for me, and the rest is just the fun of a cinematic roller-coaster ride with some great special effects. It's not Shakespeare or even Titanic, so don't expect more and just enjoy it for what it is! "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is a fun movie to watch. I think Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt give excellent performances. This movie has a great soundtrack. I do not know why people hate this movie. This is one of Jan De Bont's best films. He also directed one of my other favorite movie Speed. Normally I think all of Van Halen's songs are trashy except for the songs for Twister. I like the sound and visual effects of this film. Not since The Wizard of Oz have I seen better tornadoes. The first time I saw this movie I was blown away. I actually like this better than Independence Day. I really like the end song Respect the Wind performed by Edward and Alex Van Halen. I wanna get the Twister Soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Great action and special FX, where's the script?","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have to admit, Twister is definitely an action-packed film with special effects galore. I liked a lot of the humor that was in this film. BUT!!!!! The story is not so good. The idea that two chasing teams would be so competitive almost to the point of ripping each other's throats out is BULLSH*T! Storm chasers all have the same goal...to learn more about tornadoes. Everything that storm chasers do is for the benefit of people who are threatened each year by tornadoes. The movie is heavily testosterone-injected by far. Storm chasers are never as blatantly reckless as the ones portrayed in Twister. When Bill answer's Jo's challenge, Have you lost your nerve?, by tightening her seatbelt and flooring it off the road and into a ditch next to the field where a tornado is in progress without knowledge of the predicament he's getting himself and Jo into is definitely the work of Hollywood. I am going to be a meteorology major in college this coming school year, and, while I don't plan on being a chaser, I know I definitely would NOT do what Bill did in that particular situation. Bill mixes his personal life with his professional life WAY too much. It distracts him too much and he has quite a few close calls. One of the first ones happens when he is arguing with Jo in her truck he runs the truck off the road and nearly wrecks into an Army vehicle (somebody tell me what that thing was). The idea of DOROTHY was derived from TOTO, only in Twister, the chasers actually put themselves right in the path of an oncoming tornado just to place an instrument pack like DOROTHY. That too is BULLSH*T. No storm chaser in their right mind would do that. To conclude, this movie, while I do like it somewhat, is eye candy lots of action, special effects, and PG-13 language. It almost reminds me of the action movies of the '80s only the enemy is a force of nature containing the fastest winds on Earth. I give it a 4.75 out of 10. "},{"Title":"down wind","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"27 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is so painfully dumb that I'm surprised I made it through the movie without sniffing glue. It stars two b-grade actors, who prove again here they should not be handed the reigns of an expensive movie (Bill Paxton, Helen Hunt). But to be fair the script is lamer than any script has ever been in all of recorded time. What am I saying? Paxton and Hunt are terrible.She's a tornado researcher who just happens to have a very standard Hollywood backstory Dad, you see, was eaten by a tornado, and now she has a grudge, umm, scratch that; she has a weird Oedipal, erotic fixation with tornadoes that makes her trance out and walk towards them like a blond zombie. Uhm... sure. Conveniently this background and volition are explained, as I've never seen before, in a flashback. (< withering sarcasm) Moving along...The tornado team you're supposed to root for is a bunch of unlikeable nerds played by unlikeable people (none moreso than Phillip Seymour Hoffman) who are prone to phony, over-directed cheerful outbursts. Each new scene that featured them, made me wish for a genre switch from disaster movie to R-rated blood bath. I would have had my own outburst (of applause) if they had all been sliced open by heavy machinery in the middle of one of their asinine conversations.However the worst, dumbest, most excruciating part of this turd is that it presents a rival team of tornado researchers as the villain. (Y'know like high school basketball..?) Bill Paxton actually has to deliver the line (I'm paraphrasing) Jonas (head of Team Bad guy) has no instincts, he sought corporate funding and he's in it FOR THE MONEY! Sure, he's in meteorology for the money, not for the love of low pressure zones. I think at this point a few veins burst in my head.Jamie Gertz was apparently supposed to function as the woman who might draw Bill Paxton out of Helen Hunt's clutches, but the writers did the usual Let's make her a drag, so that when she has to go, the audience isn't upset. They actually make this device even more desperate, by having HER deliver the We're finished speech. Relievedly... she's OK with it. Gosh that resolved itself nicely. I'm glad I wasn't asked to feel any tension related to human emotions in this movie. Not since Sean Young excused herself out of the plot in Cousins has a scene designed to erase conflict so infuriatingly failed to erase conflict.Do you know what's at least as entertaining as watching tornadoes break things; watching a good script resolve things intelligently or a great script do it cleverly... & being trusted by writers who don't assume you're an idiot.Making the proceedings that much sadder is the fact that the special effects are actually less thrilling than the low-tech canvas sock they used for a tornado in 1939 for the Wizard of Oz (!).This movie immediately appeared in a scene-for-scene TV ripoff with Bruce Campbell, called imaginatively Tornado that somehow made the whole thing even stupider, with expensive tornado sequences happening off screen during the commercials. That z-grade solution at least made me laugh.This unredeemable slop should only be shown in the rural sector. "},{"Title":"Rabbit is wise....","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" TV weatherman Bill Harding is trying to get his tornado-hunter wife, Jo, to sign divorce papers so he can marry his girlfriend Melissa. But Mother Nature, in the form of a series of intense storms sweeping across Oklahoma, has other plans. Soon the three have joined the team of storm chasers as they attempt to insert a revolutionary measuring device into the very heart of several extremely violent tornadoes....Yes the film is utterly ridiculous, and like other De Bont movies after Speed, completely devoid of plot, but one cannot deny, that this film entertains in droves, and like many other summer blockbusters of 1996 is a lot of loud dumb silly fun.What ever plot there is involves trying to get microchips into a tornado, so the warning time can increase, but when you have flying cows, and flawless effects, does plot matter.If we're to come out now, it wouldn't be as successful, as films like this are ten a penny nowadays, and there are more high concept ideas.But for the time, it's an amazing feat, deserved of it's box office and cult following. The cast are fun, and it's always funny to see Elwes in a black van with a silent entourage, after all, he's the bad guy.... "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"24 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a really fun movie with a great cast headed by Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton.  It may not be a frightning, or even suspensful, but it does the trick.  Along with great acting and decent writing, the special effects were awesome and it made you feel like you were really there.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Two good points!","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There were 2 good things about this movie If I ever need to inflict pain and misery upon an enemy I can send them a copy of this film, and if I ever want to make myself sick (for the purposes of calling into work or whatever!) I can rent this monstrosity and watch 5 minutes of it.People say it has wonderful special effects, and even this point I must disagree with.  If you have ever been in or near a real twister, you will notice that it is an entirely different scene than what you see in this film.  A real twister, if it was even twice as far away from you as it was these people in this film, would instill nothing less than sheer TERROR in everyone involved.  Sheer terror meaning there would be no bickering about Dorothy or the other scientists or divorce papers.  These special effects did not do justice to the ambience of a real twister, and the acting was reminiscent of my 3rd grade Christmas play.  I won't even bother mentioning the ridiculous 'plot'.  This film is in my top 5 worst films (Hollywood productions) ever made.Jan De Bont What's the matter with you??  Even an action movie needs to have REASONABLE chemistry between actors... and the dialogue in Twister reminds me of the ridiculous dialogue in another equally horrible flick Speed..  And sequels are bad enough as it is, but a sequel to Speed????????!!!!!!????  I'm glad I have not seen it... I would be forever scarred if I had. "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hey people come on! Give TWISTER another chance! Films, even action films, don't HAVE to have an inventive plot or decent performances or a script that wasn't written by a machine to be good. All I need is light, noise, and lotsa 'splosions! Take those elements and paste over a thin layer of worn-out story borrowed from 10 or twelve other movies and you got a winner, thank you! Throw in some great acting-Bill Paxton's staring at the dirt moment alone FLOORS me. And ever notice how Helen Hunt is constantly bustling about with her head down whenever she's not scrunching her face into her patented I'm sad and cute look (Hello Oscar!)-that's ACTING! And Jamie Gertz! Welcome back to the cinema! I haven't seen you since LISTEN TO ME! And don't even get me started on the lovable ragamuffins known as the storm chasers! The way they're thrown at us like we'll immediately love them! The way you're not sure how many of them there are! (And the fat red-hared dude! That's what they mean by COOL! I mean COOL-AGE!) And Cary Elwes! What a great villian! He's in it for the money!(Hsss!) At first I wasn't sure what accent he was doing, since it changed every scene, but then I realized he was doing all of them! And the F/X! WOWWW!!! This movie follows the rule We got a computer, who needs a script?. I love how the characters find the big tornado in the end-on a perfectly sunny day, no less-and drive right up to it with no damage done! I can't wait to try that myself! (I just hope I have lots of cans of delicious refreshing Pepsi-Cola(TM)!!!)To sum up, this is a rollercoaster wrapped inside a thrillride of a movie and I implore you to give a second chance! Please don't get hung up on this notion that a big budget action film could actually be daring and original and even a little smart. All we need are CGIs and THX sound and films made by the marketing department of the studios to keep us happy! Give me more! I'm waiting!  "},{"Title":"Just an All-around Fun Movie","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A lot of critics have bashed this movie for its simple plot, only-decent script, and reliance on special effects to sell. However, that's what it's SUPPOSED to be! If you go to see this movie, don't expect an Oscar-winning film. It's a very simple plot (No spoilers) A group of storm chasers are tracking a huge front spawning multiple tornadoes throughout Oklahoma, hoping to test a new weather sensory device that could possibly help with tornado warning systems. To complicate things, the former leader of the group (Bill Paxton) has come back to have his ex-wife and current supervisor of the team (Helen Hunt) sign the final divorce papers. However, he finds himself swept up (no pun intended) in joining the chase again. That's pretty much it; not outrageous nor all that thought provoking.The actors are all reputable (Paxton, Hunt, Elwes, Hoffman, Ruck, etc) and very good in their roles and they work well with the somewhat weak dialog, and the special effects are very good. Also, the physics are relatively accurate; I can't really think of any groan-inducing actions scenes. All in all, a great movie for parties, especially if you have a big screen and a good sound system. "},{"Title":"Left...Right...Left...","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This really is a disaster film from start to finish, or should I say disastrous. Completely unbelievable plot, lame acting by Ms. Hunt, who we don't see much of anymore (hmmm?). That leaves the special effects, which are not enough to make it worth seeing.Wasn't it amazing how the debris fell in front of the truck alternating from Right to Left....pure cinematic magic!! "}{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is definitely a film of high energy.  I enjoyed it on a lot of levels.  The special-effects are great although some look fake, but this was definitely one of the most original films of '96 and today.  Not too many films about tornadoes are made.  Although it has alot of formula and cliches, I thought the filmmakers and script-writers did a great job with the material.(there's not much you with tornadoes) I also did hate the way they got rid of Jamie Gertz' character. The film is exciting and the characters are interesting.  This film is definitely a must-see. "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The mid-90's was when Hollywood was hit by the disaster movie bug. Summer after summer came more explosions and associated disasters of some sort. Many of them were actually pretty good, in a rather brainless sort of way. But Jan de Bont's 1996 movie takes the cake. It's the ultimate in summer action adventure.Granted, the plot is nothing more than an excuse to create some impressive visuals and loud noises (but then again, wasn't de Bont's previous feature Speed like that, too?). But it really doesn't matter anyway. Actually, for a movie like this, the story and subplots are pretty well-developed.Dr. Jo Harding (Helen Hunt) is a tornado chaser who, with her team of ragtag scientists, is about to try and get their new science gizmo (appropriately named DOROTHY) up in a tornado to get scientific readings. Enter Bill (Bill Paxton) who has come to get the divorce papers from Jo, but he and his high-strung fiancée (Jami Gertz) decide to tag along to see DOROTHY fly.Twister would be just another round of eye candy (albeit very good eye candy, even by today's standards) if it hadn't been for a cast of extremely likable characters. It's a challenge to make bickering people likable, but Hunt and Paxton do it. They bicker, but it's often funny. Paxton is a normal guy who just wants to move on, but he has a good heart. Hunt is not your typical lady scientist, and her deadpan delivery brings some big laughs. Jami Gertz is fine as the high-strung fiancée who has no idea what she has gotten herself into, and Cary Elwes is perfectly slimy as the rival with money but no brains. Lois Smith has some very memorable and heartfelt scenes as Jo's aunt.Jan de Bont has a gift for developing a single sentence premise into a roller-coaster ride of a thriller. Just take a look at Speed, his first venture in the director's chair. Twister is just as intense, and if I may say so, a lot more fun. The effects are outstanding, and the cinematography is both beautiful and scary. de Bont also stretches his talent for one liners and physical gags, some of which are laugh out loud hilarious.I also have to mention Mark Mancina's score. It's delightfully upbeat with a sense of fun that perfectly compliments Twister. It's enough to get anyone excited for a nearly 2 hour ride. It's a shame that the Oscars didn't recognize his work.Not everything in Twister works. There are a few minor plot holes here and there, and many of the minor characters aren't developed (though they are put to good use in establishing rapport between the characters and the audience-the dialogue feels very real and again is often pretty funny). But these are minor quibbles, and I chose to give this film a 10 despite them because a, they don't dampen the film's entertainment value, and b, no one will notice (or care) unless they are looking at this movie from a critic's point of view.Twister may not be great art, but it sure is great fun! "},{"Title":"Root for the tornado","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is an educational movie that teaches you in no uncertain terms that there is nothing more noble, vital - and, yes, hip - in all the fields of human endeavor than being a reckless tornado chaser.The greatest disaster depicted in the film isn't the havoc wreaked by several tornadoes, but rather the obnoxious, shallow, and contradictory characterizations that destroy the story.For example, Helen Hunt, who is typecast for these kind of sanctimonious roles, leads the cast. One has to wonder why she always appears so high and mighty in this film, with all her stuff together, when her past is supposedly filled with demons she must overcome at all costs. Apparently, the only cure is for her to get so close to a twister she is in danger of being whisked off to Oz. It seems to me it would be far less risky to consult a shrink.Paxton plays the modern, sensitive and conflicted movie man. In this case, one who can't decide between his gentle, gorgeous fiancé (Gertz) or his flint -faced, self-righteous, soon-to-be ex-wife. You'll never guess who he ends up with!Meanwhile, Hunt's supporting crew is made up of those lovable, formulaic oddballs that teach us how hip it is to be a science geek, and how un-hip everyone else is who just doesn't get what they do (like Gertz, who, in an effort to be portrayed as an out-of-it fifth wheel, is, in spite of the writers' intentions, actually the most sympathetic character in the whole movie!)Every movie needs the rival enemy, and evidently a plague of cyclones wasn't considered enough for this film. So enter Cary Elwes and his crew, which is rival to Hunt's and Paxton's. We know immediately they're the evil antagonists because they drive nicer vans and appear to be better funded with better meteorological equipment. Better, at any rate, than the recycled pop cans that Hunt et al are stuck with.And because we should despise Elwes' crew so much for these reasons, you also will never guess what becomes of them.Twister stretches credibility, but no more than we have become accustomed to in modern action films. I mean, if action heroes can outrun explosive fireballs, then outracing tornadoes, flying oil tankers, cows, and other assorted debris in a pickup truck is a piece of cake.I give the film a two only for mildly amusing special effects. The real downfall of the movie is in the script. The main characters are the kind you hope will get sucked up skyward never to be seen again in a sequel. "},{"Title":"Don't get blown away","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I actually really like this movie. When I first saw Twister as a child, well it was one of my favorites and still is to this day. Many say it's lame and a bit cheesy. It is but that's what I love about it. The action is great. The special effects are good but don't hold up to today's standard. I love the main characters and the acting skills. I feel like some of the supporting actors falter a bit but not enough to distract the viewer.It's a heart stopping thriller that never seems to end. The plot is easy to follow. Follow the tornadoes and survive, which is the hard part. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good fun!","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Indeed if you've heard reviews for this movie people will tell you that it's all just CGI style and no substance. To be honest though, it's not as bad as you might think, if anything it's really very entertaining. While not a particularly thought provoking movie, if anything it's more another one of those silly action movies you turn your brain off to and watch the pretty images go by, it was still enough to keep me hooked, with there being no scenes in the film which are particularly cringeworthy.So what's the pasta? In Oklahoma, meteorologist and Tornado Chaser Bill heads out into the wilds with his fiancée to have divorce papers signed by his current estranged wife Jo. Although failing to get the divorce paper's signed, Bill sticks around because he and Jo's project, a Tornado reading machine called Dorothy, has been perfected and ready to be deployed into Tornado's so as to study their movements and properties, spurred on also by the fact that his rival, a man named Jonas, has also created his own version of Dorothy and intends to beat them to this multimillion Dollar breakthrough. What follows is Jo, Bill and their team of fellow Tornado Chasers embarking on an epic pursuit across the Oklahoma countryside to track down as many Twisters as they can and get their machine successfully deployed before all of them are destroyed or Jonas gets there first!Indeed the film isn't particularly thought inducing, it's a fairly basic A > B plot of trying to get these machines into Tornado's, whilst occasionally having to dodge death by the violent storms. The thing that makes this film so good though is the action, which is very intense, especially the Tornado that strikes at night, and the really very good CGI, which, for 1996, is very impressive. The Tornado's look and feel as big as they're depicted, which makes them all the more intimidating.The acting is fairly standard, although the bickering between Jo and Bill can be quite funny at times, with a few emotional scenes thrown into the mix. The soundtrack absolutely rocks my socks off every time, with a selection of fantastic artists including Deep Purple, Eric Clapton, Lisa Loeb and the mighty Goo Goo Dolls!Overall though, while I consider this a film I don't put much thought into, it's still an entertaining and very exciting flick, keeping me glued for every single minute! "},{"Title":"Twister","Date":"19 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"       There are a few lines and scenes in the movie that are not exactly true because they are based on real life events, or even occur during the wrong time period. An example would be describing the tornado as a F5 on the Fujita-Pearson scale like they did in the beginning of the movie, in real life that can only be determined after the storm has caused damage. Another major problem with the tornadoes is that they pull objects towards them like a vacuum cleaner not away like a blow dryer. Another weather related effect of the movie that I noticed was that lightning occurs at the same time as the thunder, which is improbable because of the fact that light travels faster than sound so lightning would hit it's target then a delay before the thunder were to occur.        Real storm chasers agree that although they don't get as close as Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton in the movie to the tornadoes they study they do agree that it is a good idea that they depict this job this way so that no one gets the hair-brained idea to go out into these dangerous situations themselves and get hurt or worse. Even this Hollywood disaster flick does depict just how dangerous these boogers are including the amount of destruction they leave in their wake. "},{"Title":"Helen Hunt & Tornadoes.","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Helen Hunt is Dr. Jo Harding, a storm chaser in Oklahoma tracking a series of violent tornadoes sweeping through the state. Bill Paxton is Bill Harding, her soon-to-be ex-husband(and TV weatherman) who is trying to get Jo to sign divorce papers so that he can marry his girlfriend Melissa(played by Jamie Gertz) They soon team up to chase the storms, because of a hated rival Dr. Jonas Miller(played by Carey Elwes) who is also following the storms. Jo wants to close to a tornado in order to test a new weather measuring device that could revolutionize tornado detection, but the trick is in getting near one without being killed...Highly entertaining film is well directed by Jan De Bont, who creates a breathless feel to the story, and has a fine cast of characters, especially Helen Hunt, who is a knockout. May stretch credibility at times, but not enough to matter. This is a fun movie! "},{"Title":"A dust-devil of a movie","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Seems to me that a much better movie could have been made, using the same basic premise (storm chasers in Tornado Alley). The filmmakers could've even gotten away with the same one-dimensional script and bad dialog if they'd just put a little more imagination and realism into the scenes everybody came to see--the tornadoes. Extreme weather--and it doesn't get any more extreme than a full-blown (excuse the lame pun) tornado--has got more than enough stranger-than-fiction quirks that the filmmakers could've incorporated some of those without straining credibility. What DOES strain the credibility here is the usual blockbuster cheats--e.g., a tornado that's powerful enough to lift an 18- wheeler off the highway and fling it back down again but nevertheless leaves the two main characters totally unscathed (not to mention that it doesn't ruffle the grass in the field they're running through).  When the only character to get more than a bruise is poor old Aunt Meg--who was at home minding her own business when a twister blew through, not trying to see how close she could get to a funnel cloud without getting sucked up into the skies--you know you're in Hollywoodland.Not only that, the storm scenes aren't all that frightening, for all the airborne wood, cars, and cows they kick up. (Only the nighttime shots of a twister disintegrating a drive-in movie screen are eerie.) TV news footage as recycled on the Weather Channel's Storm Stories is easily more scary.  That's because the news footage is REAL, and looks it. It doesn't look like the product of a carefully controlled movie set. A little more effort to make the storm scenes in this movie suggest that the crew might have been in actual danger filming them (maybe a little shaky camerawork, a little rain and mud spattered onto the lens, shots of flying debris that weren't always perfectly composed but looked a little more chaotic--y'know, like a real natural disaster) would've gone a long way.Substitute 100-foot waves for 300-mph winds, and all the comments here would also apply to The Perfect Storm, another extreme-weather blockbuster that, aside from the primal fascination of the subject matter, is really pretty awful.  "},{"Title":"Technically horrible, yet thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Lordy, Lordy, Lordy!!!  I have never seen a movie more technically flawed than this movie.  And I can name plenty of things... look at the roads they drive on... every five seconds, they're on a different surface, concrete, four lane highway, dirt, mud, cornfield, highway again...  Bill and Helen are eaten by how many?  FOUR? tornados?  and every time, miraculously, the tornado dissipates IMMEDIATELY after touching them... see, my theory is that Bill Paxton is such a superb actor that he can quell even Mother Nature. No seriously, Bill is my favorite actor.  But anyways, the truck windshield shatters at one point, and in the immediately following scene is amazingly repaired... after a telephone pole falls on the truck, the pole itself disappears... Man this is the kind of movie I could see falling victim to Joel Hodgson or now I guess it'd be Mike Nelson, were that show still on the air.   But let's not forget its good parts.  It starred Bill Paxton, one major plus.  Helen Hunt wasn't to bad either.  And Carey Elwes made a great nasty villain.  I also loved the fat tornado guy, who looked like he was going to wet his pants half the time, and you gotta love the line oh yes, Rabbit is good, Rabbit is wise...  And man, those sound effects that Mister Crighton brought over from Jurassic Park, the ones that made the tornado snarl and grunt and roar like some great windy dinosaur, they sound TERRIFIC on a surround sound system.  If you've got a nice home theatre, turn off the lights, turn up that volume, try to forget about all the technical errors, and enjoy the show. "},{"Title":"Since I saw it at the $1.50 cheap theater, I didn't feel cheated.","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Personally, I found the tornado in The Wizard of Oz more convincing. Are we really supposed to believe that these guys can be standing around while a tornado drops large debris (semi-trucks, fire engines, combines) and their hair doesn't even get mussed up? And when's the last time you saw a tanker truck in such pristine condition anywhere, much less flying through the air after being tumbled about by 300 mile per hour winds? The flying moo cows were no more convincing than Margaret Hamilton whirling through the cyclone on her bicycle. Special effects should enhance a film, not distract from it. Sadly, the plot was so lame it NEEDED special effects to distract you from it. Don't bother. "}{"Title":"A Fun Thrill Ride","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The biggest complaint that usually accompanies Twister is the movie's lacckluster plot. And, yes, this is indeed a noticeable flaw. But, honestly, is this movie really more empty than any other big-budget suspense movies? Granted, the screenplay by Michael Crichton and Anne-Marie Martin could use more depth and surprise, but it's not exactly embarrassing. And Twister has some huge things going for it. First, there's the direction of Jan De Bont, who did a spectacular job with keeping 1994's Speed on track and once again maintains a pulsing momentum in this, his second effort behind the camera. Second, there's the game and likable performances by Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt, who bring more conviction and depth to their characters than the screenplay expects of them. And, third, there are the special effects, which are simply astounding. Cows fly, hail falls, houses are torn apart. And once they start, they never seem to stop. Twister may not offer anything new in terms of drama, but as a big-budget special effects extravaganza it's enormously satisfying and a lot of fun.   "},{"Title":"Even the cgi sucks","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've never seen a more profoundly stupid movie. Every character is extremely annoying and the plot is the dumbest in the entire history of dumb plots in movies. The main character Bill treats his new fiancée like crap and she just let's him do it. He spends the entire movie humiliating her. Hes basically a hill billy asshole. People would never act like this in real life. And when the main character is unlikeable the movie don't work.Now natural disaster movies has never been good plot wise but they're usually entertaining and fun to watch. Especially because of the cgi.This shitty movie however is sheer torture, because as I said even the cgi sucks. Even for a 19 year old movie it sucks.There is a reason Jan De Bont no longer works in Hollywood. He had one good movie in him Speed. Downhill from there.Avoid this. "},{"Title":"Jan De Bont's overwhelming weather disaster of action-packed films","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Director Jan De Bont of the critically acclaimed hit Speed teams up with Steven Spielberg to direct a weather disaster film, Twister. It tells the story about a team of tornado chasers in Oklahoma where two almost divorced meteorologists named Bill (Bill Paxton) and Jo (Helen Hunt) study/analyzing tornadoes. While trying to beat his enemy Jonas (Cary Elwes) by perfecting a data-gathering instrument, designed to be released into the funnel of a tornado, Jo remembers the time of her father's tragic demise and she, Bill and his girlfriend Melissa go after the tornado as they attempt to insert the experiment into the heart of the monstrous weather.This is a pretty interesting film and an action-packed one at that. Granted, the story can be predictable at times with forced and pathetically bad dialogue, but it had an emotional feeling to it with scenes where Jo explains her father's death which makes the story as much sense as it is. The conversations along with some very clever comedic moments were very interesting and funny at the same time. The cast is great. Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt make a beautifully great screen couple, Jami Gertz did very decent as Melissa, Cary Elwes did alright as Bill's arch-nemesis Jonas, Phillip Seymore Hoffman did well as Dusty and the rest did pretty well. The CGI effects are spectacular with some great action and the music score from Mark Mancina was surprisingly innovative.Although, not a masterpiece, Twister is still a good disaster film worth watching and a great take for Jan De Bont. "},{"Title":"Not twisted enough","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is a good example of a film made purely to showcase special effects with a very simple plot concocted to hold it all together. I wouldn't have minded had it not been pure soap opera nonsense. I expect more from Michael Crichton.I first (and last) saw Twister at a preview screening on a sunny Saturday night on July 20th 1996 (exactly 14 years ago today). It was one of those lovely screenings where the movie just starts right away and you're not bothered by long ads or trailers. After such brilliant teaser trailers I was initially let down by the mechanical and pedestrian nature of the story.The story outside of the twisters ain't nothing new. A man and his estranged wife get back together amid the chaos. Wow! As if that wasn't done in Die Hard, The Abyss and ID4 already. Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt are good (as is her fondness for going without a bra in a white vest with lots of rain pouring down) but the rest of the cast are just scenery. Jamie Gertz is the perfunctory in for the audience. And why Cary Elwes attempted to do a Texas accent when he is clearly incapable is beyond me. And don't get me started on Philip Seymore Hoffman! I wanted one of the twisters to drop a silo on his head. All the storm chaser team do is go yeah, let's do this and rock 'n' roll. Usually in movies a cast this large is killed off one by one, but no such luck here. Not only are they mostly useless to the story progression but they are deeply annoying.Where the film does succeed is delivering spectacle. The effects may be well over a decade old now but they still look good and the sound design is quite brilliant. If you go to Twister looking for anything else you'll be sorely disappointed.Still, as modern disaster movies go, it's towards the top of the pile. "},{"Title":"Ha Ha! It's the wonder of nature, baby!","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's tornado season in the mid west of America and two rival teams of scientists are out chasing them. Their aim? To finally crack just what makes a tornado tick. Trouble is is that it's far harder to put into practise-especially with problematic romances and in house rivalries to deal with.Directed by Jan De Bont and written by one Michael Crichton, Twister might just be one of the most reviled disaster films ever made. With a production budget of $92 million, Twister went on to make a staggering worldwide gross of nearly $500 million, not bad for a picture that the un-popcorn crowd like to call the worst written film of the 90s.The truth is, and trust me I would never try to sell a revisit to this movie to anyone who has seen and hated it, is that it is badly written. The plodding story lacks zip and the character interaction is painfully poor, but as action films go, Twister is one of the 90s most entertaining films. By the numbers block buster be damned I say, I want thrills with my popcorn and thrills are what I get...big time. The storm chasing characters looking like a group plucked out of a Nirvana concert are merely linking us into the next thrill sequence, just like doors on a haunted house train ride at the local fun-fair. There are some attempts at arking a story line about faltering love, and courtesy of the annoying Carey Elwes we get a sly dig at corporate greed and cheat tactics, but meh, bring on the computer trickery and sub woofer busting noise please folks.Twister simultaneously shows the best and worst of the modern day summer block buster. It has no concern for character forming or to even get the audience to care about these over excited no marks chasing behemoth tornadoes. It does however know how to entertain you, entertain you in a way that that haunted house train ride kept making you go back for more after your first dabble. And that my friends is why Twister became one of the highest grossing films of the modern era. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Twister Creates a Swirl of Imagination","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The special effects in Twister are wonderful. The movie is truly a heart-stopping and head-spinning thriller. It is truly a movie I would recommend.You all who are writing bad comments about this movie are pathetic. You've obviously watched this movie ten thousand times in order to sort out every single tiny error in the movie. Instead of being uptight about it, give it the credit it deserves. Twister serves its purpose Thrilling the viewer.While some situations may seem improbable, you reviewers should look at the purpose of the movie instead of being nit picky and ripping the movie to shreds just because you have no imagination.Great film, 10\10 "},{"Title":"A Great Action Film.","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" With Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton, you know you can't go wrong. In my opinion, the film delivers. Sure, you have to suspend your disbelief at times, and sure, it doesn't seem as cool on the small screen, but it's such a fun and energetic film with so many great visual effects that none of that becomes distracting or stupid. The opening scene used to scare me as a child when the Helen Hunt character's father is killed by a tornado. I was able to totally see where Helen Hunt was coming from as an adult with her fears and her bone to pick. Overall it was really entertaining. The people who hate should lighten up, because this really isn't a bad film. The acting and the look of the film are really interesting and good, the plot is easy to understand, and the script has enough inside jokes and characterization to make the film more interesting. "},{"Title":"CGI was enough in 1996.","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie was made at about the time when CGI was still impressive in and of itself in film-making. When Hollywood could shove at us eye popping visuals while ignoring plot, depth and emotion and we'd ooh and ahhh.And this shows in Twister.The movie is rife with sappy clichés, sub-par acting and corny moments. The meat of this film is it's CGI created Tornadoes, which for the most part served their purpose in the context of a film of this nature.However even a layman couldn't ignore the ridiculous moments regarding the behavior of the Tornadoes in this film. For example at one point the first tornado the storm chasers encounter gets close enough to them to suck their truck up in the air and the boards above the flimsy shelter they're hiding under, but leaves them miraculously unharmed. Several times tornadoes in the film dissipate at all too convenient moments including the last one, a monster of a tornado that they actually get stuck inside, but survive somehow strapped to drainage pipes despite the tornado being strong enough to pick up an 18 wheeler, roll a house and make huge tractors fly.Yet for some reason this film is highly watchable. Twister achieved what it set out to achieve. It's mindless entertainment but it is indeed entertaining.It's almost like the really embarrassing moments of this film and there are plenty of those, make the film fun to watch. There's something innocent about this film that excuses all the bad aspects of it.Twister has been on cable a lot recently. I recommend watching it if you haven't yet. It's not award winning by any means but then again some films that have won academy awards have sucked so I leave it up to you to decide. "},{"Title":"A mighty wind","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm amazed that this film has such a low average score, I thought it was great. Now I know it's not that deep, but what's not to like. The visual effects of all the twisters is breathtaking, having first seen it at the cinema it really worked and every viewing on my rather smaller TV set does not diminish the effect.The film fair cracks along as we get to chase round the countryside looking for the big bad wind. You get a baddie to dislike, a kindly, yet funky aunt and a collection misfits all played well, after all there are two Oscar winning actors in the cast in Helen Hunt, who I love and Philip Seymour Hoffman who is also very good in this. In fact I think the one thing that set's this apart from other summer blockbusters is the quality of the acting.I think the fact that it was a summer blockbuster would be enough to put some people off and if this sort of action movie is not to your taste then I can understand some negative comments but as a piece of escapist fun for an hour and a bit then it can't be beaten. "},{"Title":"Wish I'd seen it in the Cinema","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film when I first seen it on DVD, for some reason or other I missed it at the cinema but I think it would have been better on the big screen. I know this film is not a classic by any means, the dialogue isn't great and the characters are very one dimensional, but it is a fun movie. Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt are very good and for me personally it was great to see Jami Gertz as she was in one of my all time favourite films Lost Boys. Cary Elwes makes a good creep in this one too. But really the star of the film is the special effects rather like Jurassic Park before it. Loved the flying cow bit too! All in all I think Twister was one of the better summer blockbusters of recent years.  "}{"Title":"A fun, but fair film.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The acting and the slant on reality do not help this film.  The one thing that bugs me is the fact that these super tornado experts are sitting in a field right next to an F5 (did you get that F5) tornado, and they are just chilling celebrating the fact that they just wrecked their only truck.  I thought hillbillies cared more about their trucks then any science?  Okay enough joking around.  The scenes with the 2 meteorologists at some national weather center are just worthless.  They are there to tell us a few details.  I would have preferred a deeper look into their life.  They are about as useless as Chris McDonald in The Perfect Storm.  Helen Hunt gets the chance at the beginning to give the audience (in the form of Jami Gertz) a lecture on how tornadoes work.  I don't mind the film.  The special effects are cool.  It's just that Jan de Bont (minus Speed) is all about special effects and not what makes a movie good.  4/10 Fair "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The more I watch this movie (and I have seen it many times because my son is obsessed) the more I like it and the more I realize it kind of sucks.(Spoilers...) The fact that Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton emerge unscathed from not 1, not 2, not 3, but 4 tornadoes is laughable.  The dialogue sometimes makes me squirm.  Carey Elwes' southern accent is awful.  Jami Gertz's character is just plain annoying .  The kiss at the end is completely out of place. But I will watch it again and again.  Philip Seymour Hoffman is great, as always.  I enjoyed all of the nerdy/goofy scientists.  I love the noise of the tornadoes (A camel??)So, if you are capable of turning on your tv and turning off your brain, watch it.  The tornadoes are cool, whether or not they are realistic. "},{"Title":"looks like a sneeze on TV","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is terrible.  That's really about as much a review as this film deserves but I'll give more anyway - if you like watching this film then you are the kind of masochist who would keep reading this review.I saw this in the theater with a bunch of women I worked with.  I managed to convince all of them to go see this (I was greatly looking forward to this after loving director Jan de Bont's first film Speed) instead of the film they wanted to see - The Truth About Cats and Dogs.After the movie, I wanted to crawl in a hole.  I felt horrible for subjecting my co-workers to this nonsensical mess.  To my surprise, during the credits the woman next to me said Wow, that was great.  Thanks for suggesting it  I looked dismayed and asked what was this about? to which she gleefully replied tornados.  I may have wasted my $7 but at least I wasn't a pariah.So if all you demand of your movie going is that it be about tornados I suppose you might enjoy this.  This effects are phenominal and maybe even worth watching on the big screen.  I rented the film when it first came out on video to see if it was as bad as I remember and decided yes, and it's even worse on TV where the effects are reduced from giant computer generated storms 50 feet across to nothing more dangerous than a sneeze on a 25 screen.I love disaster movies, I have been a Jan de Bont fan since he was DPing the films of John McTeirnan and Paul Verhoeven and I have read everythiing Michael Crichton ever wrote, so this is a film that should have appealed to me.  But bad dialogue, bad plotting, non (not even 1)-dimensional characters and a complete lack of logic will ruin even the greatest of popcorn movies. "},{"Title":"Pretty good special effects, crap everything else.","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The special effects for this movie are very good.  I've always been quite in awe of tornadoes myself, and they're very well represented in this film. The sound is also high quality and if you own a decent surround sound system, you're in for a real treat. I can't even say this is a great movie to just switch your brain off and enjoy, because the only thing worth watching are the tornadoes themselves. Bill Paxton is his usual wanky, cool one-liner self, just like in Titanic, though I did like him in True Lies. I only bought this movie on DVD to test out my sound system.  I don't think I could sit through the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Unreal","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Saw this movie on video,it was on network TV the other night(channel surfing)overrated crap.Having been through a real tornado while living in tornado alley,the special effects were crap.All kinds of stuff flying around yet the lone rangers chase vehicle somehow manages to stay on ground-Dorothy's tornado experience in Wizard of Oz was better than this movie.Helen Hunt-I got burned out on her with  that stupid series she was on.The same logic was made in creating this movie is applied in the logic of having to go from your house to run to your underground shelter instead of having a basement and going downstairs like most houses in Midwest are setup which on occasion have twisters to.But when you live in an area known as Tornado Alley that would make to much sense.Once again power of marketing and not much else made viewers run and see this movie.  "},{"Title":"It sure is in the Suck Zone.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can understand how impossible it would be to make an excellent movie out of TWISTER. Terrible characterizations, bad plot, overdramatic, annoying acting, and an air of being far too long are all over TWISTER. The real acting comes from the special effects and the many things these 'twisters' whip around. Fast forward to look at them, then thankfully lock this one away forever.Bill wants to get his divorce papers finalized with Jo so he can get married again and move on with his life. But sadly, future wife Melissa gets the bad end when Bill gets caught up with his former wife and colleagues in one last attempt to make his dream come true in making Dorothy fly.Easily, the direction and screenplay stink. The actors talk like we were born yesterday (We have hail! We have cows! We don't have time!). They could also have taken off half an hour of the bloody film too to save our brains from further damage. The real acting (twisters) are more entertaining than the CGI (acting), and are worth a look, otherwise this TWISTER sucks, despite the dollar figures it made. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have to say that I'm a weather freak, I love to watch movies on tornadoes. When I first saw this movie on a poster, I thought it was a horror flick. However, the moment I saw it I fell in love with it. I would recommend anyone who likes action and flying cows (lol) to go see it. It has to be the best Tornado movie of all time!!! "},{"Title":"Underrated action thriller!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed TWISTER! I saw it in theaters and was completely blown away! (No pun intended.) I loved the big, loud, thrilling action sequences and the fun characters. Although most people criticize the writing as being poor, I actually thought most of it was quite clever. Unlike worse action movies, you actually understand the characters' personality.The cast is great! Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Cary Elwes, Jami Gertz, Lois Smith, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Alan Ruck, Anthony Rapp, and the rest of the cast (as well as Jan De Bont, Steven Spielberg, and Michael Crichton) make this an entertaining and educational movie! "},{"Title":"Could an action film like this one be any better?","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Best Everything. The Worst Nothing.In 1994 a man named Jan De Bont (cinematographer of Basic Instinct and Die Hard) was given the shot of direct one of the greatest action films ever done, Speed, starring Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock, it turned out that it was a success and it turned both Keanu and Sandra big budget stars. Steven Spielberg had the script of an action film about Tornados in America and realized that this should be a job for someone who can put the audience in the edge of the seat; Jan De Bont was the obvious choice, and this obvious choice, proved once more to be one of the best action directors around. A luxurious trio of actors were called, some expensive special effects companies and sound design technicians and the track was set for another success, which was bigger than the producers already expected, being one of the 20 biggest successes of all time! The story is simple, but compelling a couple on the verge of divorce must reunite to put their new machine to study tornados in action. Twister is one of those movies that you see not by its story and its depth, but for its compelling imagery, water tornados, sandstorms, cows hurling in the air, everything is seen during the heroes chase for the ruthless Twister.     For such a big budget production, the producers wouldn't dare to hire some random actors, they had to be carefully chosen, Bill Paxton (Titanic; U-571), Helen Hunt (TV Series Mad About You, As Good As it Gets) and Cary Elwes (Robin Hood Men In Tights). Since I first saw Speed, one of my all time favorites, I couldn't wait to see Twister.    Jan De Bont's wisdom and expertise are back, and what is back also are the great action sequences, Visual Effects, Sound and Music. Mark Mancina, the composer (also for Speed) wrote once again a score that unfortunately didn't get the praise it should have, it's great, one of the best of all times, check it &#150; (examples the music while they are Leaving Aunt Meg's house and passing through Wakita, the music before they face the F5 twister and so on..) Special Effects are surprise, surprise, top notch, one of the best we've ever seen. Even today, 6 years after the movie was released, they still dazzle us.  Anyway, adding anything more was saying too much of the same thing, which means I would praise this movie in every department, and why? Because it deserves it... and how can I prove my devotion for the movie? Through IMDB, that's why this site exists, and that's why I give this movie a perfect 10 out 10!  "},{"Title":"Aggressively stupid","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a dumb movie with nothing to recommend except for nifty special effects. However, much of the movie DOES work on an unintended level if you choose to view it as camp entertainment. This is especially true of the silly final scenes with our heroes chained to a pipe in the middle of a funnel cloud. I laughed out loud throughout that whole scene, and almost decided it was an O.K. movie after all. Almost.  "}{"Title":"All SFX, little of everything else","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister was neat the day it hit theatres nationwide. We're exposed to something new. The villain, or the characters stirring trouble aren't actually people, or aliens. The heroes are against nature itself. The SFX appealed to me, and it looked good. However, that is about the extent I will go how good this film is. Besides watching these tornados form and dissipate, Twister offers little of everything else. We're exposed to a little love story as well. Two characters who were once in love, went different ways with new lives and then thrust back together again present day. There isn't enough material nor depth between Hunt and Paxton. It was just there to add a little drama. Paxton himself in particular fumbled along the way in this movie. I suppose he's not too blame considering the script they gave him. Damn Whedon the responsible party? Don't expect the story to grab you if you watch this. It's the thrill of watching havoc wrought upon by Nature and how Man survives against it the fun of it.  "},{"Title":"Simple plot with amazing special effects and tornadoes","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The plot is simple - put a machine in a tornado to better understand it. Sub-plots - (1) get estranged couple back together again, (2) competition and (3) how a tornado changes people's lives drastically.It manages to achieve the main plot, and of course, this is Hollywood, so nothing but the biggest tornado (F5) would do for the final scene. The sub-plots sometimes get too entangled with the main plot so that we need reminders along the way as to what they are trying to achieve here.The special effects are amazing - have you ever seen tornadoes like these on screen. The way the tornadoes blew and wiped out landscapes were fantastic, not to mention the flying trucks and cows.While I felt that this movie probably showcased the special effects more than any particular actor's acting performance, they still did a pretty good job of the sometimes witty dialogue and actual acting needed. "},{"Title":"Please make it go away with the wind...","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Oh great, a Network Premier on British TV, OK I'll watch it, again!What a mistake! The first time I saw the poster, my first reaction was, &#145;A movie about people chasing Tornadoes! That's going to be boring.' But I watched it none the less, and how right I was. Watching again, I never appreciated all the wonderful clichés in it. Like you know in the first 5 minutes, after the opening conversation between Bill Paxton and Jami Gertz, that they are going to split up and Bill going to get together with Helen, and SHOCK OF SHOCKS, THEY DO! And every other cliché that the writer could possibly think of is in there, the bad guy Cary Elwes, DEAD! They have 4 Dorothy's, I wonder which one will make the drop off, the first one, no, the second one, no&#133; and so on, the film is just plain bad, from start to finish. It tries to take itself to seriously, when it has more ham than a butcher. If they had made it tongue in cheek, then it would have been great (i.e. Big Trouble in Little China) but they were trying to make a serious movie, and if failed, MISSERABLY!The one saving grace was the photography, the aerial shots that go right up to the cars is great, but that's it, there is no other saving grace.I think Mr De Bont in this decades Ed Wood.  "},{"Title":"It must have been an F5 because it REALLY sucked.","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ok, someone has to shoot Bill Paxton to save the world from any more of his crappy acting in crappy movies. Right after that, they should shoot Jan De Bont and burn every movie he has even thought about directing.With that said, the ONLY thing that saved this movie from being as bad as Lost World was the special effects. The twisters were generally pretty cool looking (minus the cows which actually had me laughing out loud) and the surround sound was excellent. If that is all you are looking for in a movie, then this one is for you. In fact, I would suggest that anyone watching this film should just FF though all the dialogue and stop to watch the twisters in action. You'll be saving yourself the torture of watching the flying cows out-act the actors.The plot, you ask? It is too mundane to bore you with. Typical girl watches father get killed by tornado, girl meets guy, girl and guy chase tornadoes, guy can not deal with girl's death wish, guy gets counseling, guy falls for counselor and wants divorce from girl, guy and counselor follow girl while she chases tornadoes to get divorce papers signed, guy realizes he still loves girl. The mystery here is why on earth did Hunt ever fall for Paxton, why does she still love him, why won't she just sign the papers, why doesn't she throw him (and his counselor) into a tornado?This film would have been much better if it had just followed the typical horror movie formula and had the tornado suck up one crew member at a time while Hunt watched helplessly. For those of you who need an emotional payoff, she could have flashbacks to her father's death every time the tornado sucked up another friend of hers. It could be Helen vs. the Twister and at the end, right before she kills the tornado with a giant DirtDevil, the tornado could spit up all her dead friends to ensure that she needs years of intensive psychotherapy.Unfortunately, no one consulted me on the plot and we are left with a lifeless special effects vehicle that is only mildly entertaining. To end on a positive note, I was pleased that the special effects crew was credited before the full cast at the end of the film because they were the real stars. "},{"Title":"The S**t Hits The FanTotally.","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There is not enough to say in concerns to how bad Twister really is.One person said the Tornado effects in the film were realistic.Sorry chum but two people running away from what is presumed to be the middle of the tornado,a monster of nature that can rip apart buildings,automobiles,and anything else in its way well let us just say Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt would have been shusi instead of running away as they did.Preposterous! Another person here defending the film said that for all the people ripping the film have they ever been in a tornado themselves? Incredible rubbish,you thank God that experience never happens to you.Plus' there are people who have met up with the tornado experience themselves,the real storm chasers.They are cheated by the film's makers who portray them as drunken sleezy bums who's job is kind of life threatening but just like going to a nightclub you never know what you might meet.Unbelieveable! The old Hollywood cliches are here the determined superwoman who has more bravery than anyone(Hunt).The wise and dependable sidekick(Paxton).The goofy crew of storm chasers who act like they just got out of high school.The old paternal relative who helps out with a meal for the bunch,but is just too corny for words.And the evil storm chaser who has coporate sponsorship(Cary Elwes) but he can't match Hunt and Paxton as they can smell a tornado coming by the way the wind blows.Hilarious! Why should anyone sponsor storm chasers anyway? What money could they get from it?The phoniest part of the film is Paxton wanting to get at Elwes for supposedly stealing his ideas and using them.Come on now he chasing tornados like Paxton's character is.Is Elwes character any less brave than Paxton's or Hunt's or just more dumber? Even the special effects fail here.Trucks come down after being hurled in the air at 500 miles per hour and land back down on the ground in one piece. To good to be true.Then of course Hunt and Paxton running away from a tornado,the eye of a tornado no less.Well the makers of the film knew very little about tornado and the brave people who study them obviously.But they knew the movie going audience a whole lot better.That is why they made so much money off of it.Some people have no shame.And it is hard to guess who this is.The makers of this mess who are planing a sequel.Or the clones who will chalk up another nine dollars to see it.  "},{"Title":"Will probably blow you away...towards the exit","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is a film that makes Roland Emmerich and Michael Bay look like competent filmmakers. While all Hollywood disasters are dopey, Twister is that and more. The special effects are poor, and not just because they are fifteen years old, even Star Wars was more convincing than this. The characterization is non-existent, and the people in this movie are so dumb that you might be tempted to root against them. Twister is the kind of thing that belongs in a museum, it is a thing of the past.Bill and Jo Harding used to chase tornadoes, now they are undergoing divorce and Bill has become a weather man. One day he drives out into the country to pick up the divorce papers from Jo, but before she hands them over, she first shows Bill her latest piece of gear, Dorthy' a device that will launch probes up into a twister, (if they get close enough). A little unwilling at first, Bill joins up with his ex wife and his old team to see if they can pull it off.Part of the reason why Twister fails, is because it generates no sense of tension. The scenario is lame and it is that kind of thing that belongs on reality TV, 'welcome to idiots chasing tornadoes' We just don't care for what happens in the movie. The only thing that keeps the viewer from walking out is that there is a very small hint of progression, as each tornado gets more destructive than the previous one, but the pay off is insufficient. There are a couple of memorable moments here and there, such as a car driving through a house on the road, and a cow that goes flying (although it doesn't go over the moon)In the end however, Twister is a dud. "},{"Title":"Perfect example of the 90's blockbuster","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is one of those movies that captured the imagination at the time, but has always suffered a backlash due to it's religious adherence to the blockbuster formula. But when the results are this much fun, who really cares? Make no mistake, this movie is not a dramatic powerhouse. It has nothing approaching nuanced acting, as most characters are either half asleep (Bill Paxton), or completely over the top (Phillip Seymour Hoffman). The villains might as well have mustaches so they can twirl the tips while laughing like Snidley Whiplash. The adherence to physics is pretty loose at best and outrageous bad at worst (being 100 feet from a mile wide tornado). But the nice thing is with the wonderful ability of home video, you can skip over all of the filler! And that leaves you with the tornado scenes themselves. 13 years later the CGI isn't quite as impressive as it used to be, with the primitive sky replacement/color grading looking particularly bad and some of the tornadoes looking very 'digital'. Despite this it get's the job done well enough that it's not a huge distraction. Coupled with a dated but still impressive (and very loud) surround sound mix and you can still have 45 minutes of fun with this movie. So many critics seems to judge this movie by the standards of a 'film'. In my opinion this is a mistake. Taken as a pure piece of entertainment (much like an amusement park ride) it works quite well, as long as you can stand (or skip) the parts in between the swirling wind tunnels. "},{"Title":"The cone of silence!","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I originally saw this movie as a young child, and being the avid tornado enthusiast that I was at the time, I thought this to be the best movie ever. I was about as transfixed on the tornadoes as Helen Hunt's character, except instead of being oblivious to the obvious danger, I was oblivious to how bad a movie this actually was. This is exactly what they're going for. There are about 5 intense tornado encounters throughout this movie, and each one is more extreme than the last. Ironically, the movie in between increasingly gets worse and worse. It's like they're upping the tornado intensity to get you to forget that they can't fill the scenes in between with anything better than crap.The dialogue and actions of the characters make no sense at all. The storm chasing team's major goal is to get a measurement device in front of tornado so that it can take readings and provide information that will lead to better tornado warning times. Bill Paxton can predict the weather by throwing dirt in the air and looking at the sky, and his character is so annoying in this movie that you wish they would have had him sucked up instead of their weather machine. This movie can't even use clichés correctly. Cheesy lines such as the cone of silence, they're going to punch the core, and suck zone are used in situations where screen silence would have been less awkward. Despite Bill's miraculous weather predicting powers, they find themselves almost getting killed by every tornado they're chasing.I would rate this film an F5. It sucked worse than any tornado I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Good Action Movie, but 1st commenter is missing a few facts","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" nor can a tornado suck a truck up its spout with such ease. In fact, it cannot be done at all. To the person that posted this comment obviously knows little about tornadoes, or is talking out of their hind quarters. Having lived in Tornado Ally for the better part of 14 years, I can assure you that a tornado can suck up a tractor trailer as easily as I can pick up a piece of paper.Now to comment on the movie, I really liked Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt as the stars of this movie. Sure most of the tornadoes in the film are CGI but good luck getting a tornado on the day you need to film. LOL. I cant speak for everyone, but having seen many a tornado up close, this was fairly well done. There were some continuity errors throughout but what movie doesn't have a few. Nobody is perfect. "},{"Title":"Story driven with marvelous effects.","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's hard to believe this was done as far back as 1996. It was phenomenal then and I still love watching this flick today. The plot is great, the effects are dynamite, and the dialog is natural with an easy flow, and the performances are awesome. It still surprises me, today. this was the film that made me stop dismissing Bill Paxton as an actor and Helen Hunt as a flibbertigibbet. But there is more to this film than the incredible effects.The ultimate raw believability of this film's effects is what drives it, not the effects themselves. Regardless of how it may be viewed by casual movie goers, this film has a depth many overlook in their awe of the effects. The story itself is good, solid work, with an interesting plot line and magnificent flow.The only problem with it is that the average Joe can't SEE the story for their infatuation with the effects. That doesn't make it an effects-driven work, and indeed, it is not. It is story driven with marvelous effects. It still amazes me, and I watch this often.It rates an easy 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Lousy movie. Fun FX.","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Why oh why didn't Bill Paxton allow Helen Hunt to walk over to the tornado? Because doing everything but in this film seems to not kill our two main leads. They call the bad meteorologists stupid at a few points, but the only fault of those guys is to not have top billing. If only everyone tethered their houses to poles 30 feet down in the earth, the tornado problem would be solved. I'm sorry, but no matter how far you stretch your movie level of disbelief, that was the stupidest movie idea. EVER.This is an all-star supporting cast working with the lame Helen Hunt in an awful movie. Phillip Seymour Hoffman was cool as always. The guy from Ferris Bueller was fine. Wanted to see them do more. I think Paul Giamatti was somewhere in there too. They're all underused, as someone thought it was better watching Hunt act all stupid and whiny in an attempt to re-connect to her dead dad.Awful but good sound and FX. "},{"Title":"A very very dumb blockbuster","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is one of the most successful hollywood movies in recent years, and that is probably a good thing for hollywood, but it is a very very bad thing for any movie fan with an appreciation of movies beyond seeing neat things blow up.  This is a stupid, preposterous and cliched tale that has implausibly sent the hollywood disaster movie back to even before the unfortunate Earthquake.  And how many awful rip offs did this three-second attention-span, brain-dead farce spawn?  Well, given the creative genius in hollywood, your guess of far too many is an unfortunately low estimate.Why did this movie suck so bad, when so many people went to see it and apparently loved it?  Well, I have no desire to insult the American viewing public's intelligence (Twister did that enough for many, many reviews), but I will delight in telling you the myriad of ways that this movie insulted my intelligence, not to mention my $8 that I could have used to eat two artery closing servings of mozzarella sticks!Well, first of all, Cary Elwes turn was a bad storm chaser was so one demensional and unneccesary that it was hard to remember why we even liked him in The Princess Bride.  Also, the good storm chasers were so unique and colorful that they made me want to throw up.  There were many talented actors who were forced to say lines of dialogue so lame that they were dated twenty years ago.  And if I hear that term Thumb of God again...OK, I'm working myself up.  I mean, this is only a stupid action picture, right?  I guess it is, but when stupid action pictures make $200 million, we get Volcano and Dante's Peak instead of fare that may actually require someone to, dare I say, THINK.  Clearly, no one on either side of the camera was asked to do much thinking with this film.But how about the Special Effects?  Weren't they great?  Well, yes, I guess they were, but with cartoonish characters and plum awful dialogue, do we really care how realistic a cow flying is? God, I hope not, but maybe I'm alone in this opinion.  Still, though, to think that 20 John Sayles pictures could have been funded by the amount they spent on this thoughtless drivel makes this movie going experience all the more frustrating.Is Twister the worst movie I have ever seen?  I would have to say no.  But while Police Academy 5 Mission to Moscow probably influenced no other movies other than, god help us, Police Academy 6, Twister has influenced Hollywood, negatively, for the past five years.  I could have been happy without the legacy that has spawned Independence Day, Armageddon, Volcano, Dante's Peak, and might have for all we know inexplicably prolonged the career of Jean Claude Van Damme (Hey, we have to blame that on somebody). So, there we have it.  Twister.  To quote the genius of H.L. Mencken, who describes the success of this movie forty five years before it's unfortunate arrival No one has ever lost money underestimating the intellect of the American Public.  No, H.L., they haven't, and some have even made $200M. "},{"Title":"One of the worst disaster movies of the 90s","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The disaster movie genre enjoyed a revival in the mid 90s, and this film was among the first ones to hit the screens. The problem with most disaster movies of that time, is that they were so politically correct that it seems that nobody would ever die, but, come on, you are here to watch a disaster movie, so you are expecting to see a lot of destruction and death. Twister is probably the disaster movie with the lowest body count in cinema history I counted 3 dead in total, one in the pre-credits sequence (to explain the heroin's trauma and obsession about tornadoes) and two at the end, obviously the bad guy of the film and his assistant. And that's it!!! You cannot see a lot of destruction happening on screen either, apart from flying cows, cars and trucks. When a small town is hit by an unexpected tornado, everything happens off screen, and naturally everybody survives. Every year more than 50 people die in various tornadoes all over the States, so the film is obviously too optimistic for its own good. For the rest, the 3 stars of my vote are for the special effects, which are quite impressive at the beginning (after that you become used to it), since the story is stupid, the characters completely dumb (a pity to see such good actors like Helen Hunt or Bill Paxton having to say those terrible lines!!!) and what happens to them totally uninteresting. "},{"Title":"Never Leaves the Suck Zone","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie disappoints on almost every level. Even the once cutting-edge special effects (which are this film's only excuse for existing) have grown much less special over time. These characters may be paper-thin, but we never worry that they will be blown away we know they are only trapped within a noisy but harmless digital effect that will repeatedly defy the laws of physics to ensure their safety. The tornadoes will pick up digital cows and farm equipment, but can't quite get a hold on the main characters, which is a pity, because they could only be improved by a few good smacks into the side of a barn.I am willing to suspend disbelief in an action film up to a point, but in this case, even with no special technical knowledge about tornadoes, I constantly found myself saying impossible. Imagine how much more frightening and dramatic this film would have been if it had characters you cared about and encounters with tornadoes that seemed at least remotely possible. Because the characters were constantly running from tornado to tornado there was never any build-up of suspense. Nothing is more ominous than the sky before a really violent storm, but we never got a sense of this since we were always plunging headlong into the centre of tornadoes. Every good horror director knows to hold back the monster at least some of the time. Speaking of which, what a self-defeating mistake for the director to include scenes from The Shining in this film - did he really imagine this mess would compare favourably to Kubrick's masterpiece? It only reminded me of what this film lacked.Twister wastes a number of good actors in small, meaningless parts, including the amazing Philip Seymour Hoffman but then it is so dreadful that you could say it also wastes the mediocre talents which are its stars. Apparently good tornado chasers are reckless, wacky and shout a lot for no apparent reason. Aren't we just such fun? they seem constantly (and desperately) to be asking the audience. Well, no they aren't, they're annoying. And the dialog that is supposed to bring these characters to life? Like the plot, it seems to have been produced by a cliché generator much less sophisticated than the machines that created the film's special effects. If you are over 12 years old you'll want to rent something better. And I may be insulting 12 year olds. "},{"Title":"high speed revolving garbage","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My girlfriend and I guffawed all the way through this twaddle. A particular high point is where the main male character thoughtfully lets earth fall through his fingers and based on that makes a sage prediction about the whereabouts of the next twister. Oh dear... This is really another fine example of a movie that should never have been made once the screenplay was submitted. Although the premise is interesting enough and the effects have the potential to be diverting at the least, it is irredeemably damaged by the pathetic plot-line and awful dialogue. I really couldn't have cared less about the dismal on-off relationship between the 2 main protagonists and the pathetic attempt to create some human interest that this represented.The flying cows were pathetic and a suitable metaphor for the whole of this unremitting tedious nonsense. "},{"Title":"Fun, But A Lot Of Hot Air","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Love the tornadoes; can't stand the people. That about sums up this movie which I saw several times in a period of a few years. I enjoyed going back and re-visiting the tornado scenes. They are extremely entertaining.However, the characters in this movie are so annoying I was sorry the twisters didn't carry them all off to movie hell somewhere. Is there a dumber sounding male voice in Hollywood than Bill Paxton (with the exception of Keanu Reeves)?Are there more annoying people than the ones Helen Hunt plays? To make it really insufferable, Paxton and Hunt spend the entire movie yelling at each other. Can you find a supporting cast, people played by Jamie Gertz, etc., more stupid than the one in this story? Probably, but it won't be easy to find.Do what I did on the third and last viewing just fast-forward (skip chapters on the DVD) to the disaster scenes and skip all the other garbage. "},{"Title":"A Convenient and Nostalgic Twist","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" On May 10, 1996, Twister stormed the theaters and gained with nearly $500 million in box office totals, making it the second highest grossing film of '96. Now as were approaching its 20-year mark, I thought that I should post my review of it since this film played a major part of my childhood, if not my life. I myself was obsessed with tornadoes throughout my childhood days; I drew of them, watched whatever documentary on them, and read on them (well, sort of, if I wasn't paying attention to the dialogue instead of the pictures). Then my mother brought this film home (it was rented from a former video store) and when I first laid eyes upon it, I was hooked! I made it as my number one favorite movie of all time, and it has been throughout my entire life... until 2014. But even before that in the later years, I've started to notice something wrong when I grew older I sometimes grew tired and even sleep through the movie whenever I watch it. So, I dove to analyze it on a more critical level, and the results were less pleasing which I reluctantly admit it myself. Overall, Twister only delivers by its effects and sound, nothing else (except for the score, Mark Mancina really does well), the emotional impact falls short as well as the characters. Also you have to look at it scientifically; it seems ridiculous that they would manage to get close to a tornado bearing winds over 200 mph and still remain planted on their own two feet and escape from it unscathed. But even if it has it faults, I still consider it as one of my favorite movies of all time (In 3rd place). To this day, the special effects still look amazing and realistic. And if you try to compare this film to its spiritual successor Into the Storm, it'd make you appreciate Twister a bit more; in other words it is the best tornado film ever and I don't think it'll be ever replaced in the no-so-distant future. I still love tornadoes though, but I don't think I need that reason alone to hold this film close to my heart. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In my opinion, Twister is a timeless classic and I have the tradition of watching it at least once every spring. Yes, it is one of those turn off your brain films, but sometimes I like doing just that. The atmosphere was very thrilling for me as well as the suspense and the cinematography was very well done. The music never fails to give me goosebumps and I love that Van Halen was featured throughout the movie and the guitar solo during the end credits was breathtaking. The film has a very distinct blue collar feel to it which I love and it's not something you see very often in Hollywood. And it's not the mocking, in-your-face kind of representation either. It's very low- key and presented as a normal way of life, as it is for many Americans. Being a mid-westerner, I appreciated that aspect greatly. ***Mild Spoilers***I loved the bickering interactions between Paxton and Hunt and their crew was a fun, lovable bunch. Jamie Gertz was absolutely adorable as the reproductive therapist who finds herself in over her head. Cary Elwez did a great job as the egocentric, sniveling weasel of a rival, and Phillip Seymour Hoffman was a lot of fun in his role as Dusty.Yes, there are some flaws, mainly the segue between action and emotion, which I'd imagine is extremely tough to balance, especially in a 90 minute film. Some people thought there wasn't enough of the emotional aspect which can make it hard for the audience to sympathize with the characters. They tried to sprinkle it in here and there, but with much of the film focusing on the action, it's hard to give your characters any depth and it makes the audience wonder why they should care. And then you have those who would rather do without any of the drama. I can sympathize as I don't always feel the need to focus on it and would rather get right to the nitty gritty. Still, you can't please everyone. Overall, it's a fun, action-packed film that I will continue to enjoy for years to come. "},{"Title":"Oh dear... I was beginning to root for the twister","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I usually love disaster films because with a solid and believable plot, they can be quite thrilling and intriguing; I do feel this movie was one of the flops in the disaster movie category, to be blatantly honest. So predictable! Hardly believable. The tornado always cleared up literally JUST as it passes them, every time! What are the odds, hey? The scattered chunks of debris that consistently kept missing these two love-birds/storm chasers by centimeters to meters was astounding! It was starting to become very repetitive. Little to no character development, so growing attached to any of the characters is out of the question; if there happened to be any loss of life in the film, it wouldn't affect the viewer at all. Not the mention the acting was rather ordinary, to say the least. The main thing that bothered me in this film was one of the final scenes, where Dr. Jo Harding and Bill Harding are strapped tightly to a pipe in a tiny shack, and this massive F5 tornado rips through and goes straight over top of them, and they walk away afterward with not a single scratch. I might be just being overly realistic with this film, but that's a little much for me. If a tornado that has been collecting debris its entirely journey picked you up, chances are that you wouldn't survive it because you'd be shredded by rapidly moving debris; it wouldn't be a pleasant sight, that's for sure! I was quite disappointed with this film because disaster movies are some of my favorites to date. I guess any movie is worth a watch at least once though, right? -shrugs- Once is enough here. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Winds blowing...","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is an entertaining movie, despite it being from 1996, and it still does hold up its own even today. The movie is predictable, yes, but still offers good entertainment. I actually do believe that Twister is the first disaster movie that I watched that actually left a lasting impression.The story is straight forward; a group of hurricane researchers and scientists are crossing USA, tracking twisters in the name of science, coming in with very different backstories. But they are in a very turbulent field of science and right in the eye of the storm, so to speak.There is a great, continuous flow to the movie and there isn't really a dull or boring moment throughout the entire movie.For a movie from 1996, then the effects were quite good. Of course they falter by today's standard, but they serve their purpose quite well and do pass as believable, which is what matters the most.What is most impressive, however, is the impressive array of actors and actresses that they had on the cast list. A list which includes Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Cary Elwes, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Alan Ruck and of course the fabulous Jeremy Davies.Twister is the type of movie that everyone has seen at one point or another, and it does have enough contents to actually sustain multiple viewings. For some reason, it just doesn't get old. "}{"Title":"With The Wind And The Rain In Your Hair.","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's a hyped-up monster movie in disguise. Instead of a shark or a zombie there are more tornadoes in the movie than the planet has ever experienced. And the best thing is you don't have to WAIT for them. It's not like Jaws or King Kong or Invasion of the Body Snatchers, in which the suspense is built up until the trap is spring. Oh, no. The kids might be bored after the first ten minutes.Houses, vehicles, trees, and cows fly through the air with the greatest of CGI breeze. The cows moo while being tumbled about, as if PO'd by the disturbance. And the tornadoes advance and retreat like fire-breathing dragons.A dozen vehicle race around after the storms, radios blaring, singing, joking, arguing, but having a gay old time of it. The point is to plant a device called Dorothy directly in the path of a funnel in order to reveal the tornado's hidden secrets. But Dorothy is just an excuse for a lot of violent fun. Everyone overacts.The principal characters include Bill Paxton, who is to acting what a zephyr is to wind. He's the hero driving the red SUV. Next to him is his former lover, Helen Hunt, appealing and brave -- as a lover should be. But along for the ride is Paxton's current girl friend (or wife, I forget), the dark Jamie Gertz, Veronica to Hunt's blond Betty. Gertz is always naive, frightened, stunned, jealous, uncomfortable. Also we have Cary Elwes, who drives a BLACK SUV with Dorothy in the read, Elwes having stolen the idea for the device from Paxton,. Elwes is a narcissistic braggart who loves the press and hates Paxton.Let me put the interpersonal arrangement this way. Paxton is definitely good. So is Hunt. Elwes is clearly bad. Gertz is just bad in quotation marks. So how does it end up? No power on earth could get me to reveal the ending but the viewer is free to take a guess.Surprisingly for a movie that's all about tornadoes, you don't learn much about them. Hooks on radar and wind shear are mentioned without explanation. The F scale is briefly discussed for Gertz' information but a hush falls over the crowd when she asks for a definition of A F-5 tornado, as if she'd uttered God's name in an improper context. And when she's given the definition it's dramatic and wrong. The term wall cloud does not appear in the script.It's an unchallenging and frankly unskilled movie that mixes up monsters and disasters and take considerable liberty with recorded facts, but the kids won't have to exercise any patience. It's all in your face. Of course, after they've seen Sharknado they'll wonder why they find mere twisters so boring. "},{"Title":"Really Blows.","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister (1996) Dir Jan De Bont / Cast Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Cary Elwes, Jami Gertz, Philip Seymour Hoffman Total waste of two hours that could be spent doing something constructive like picketing theatres that play this film, or getting together with so poor dote who was going to waste their hard earned money on this sh*t storm film and play the game Twister. It opens in 1969 where a little girl witnesses her father get whisked away by one of those monsters of nature. She grows to become a tornado watcher. Bill Paxton arrives so that he can get divorce papers sign so that he may remarry. When he learns that she is using a machine that he invented, he sticks around. Soon barns, trucks and even cows take flight as a twister strikes. To add to problems, Cary Elwes shows up with a clone of his invention. Plot boils down to Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton and company chasing too many tornadoes for any place to be deemed safe. Although visually appealing director Jan De Bont scored a more exciting film with Speed. Cary Elwes plays an airhead who rides into a twister after being warned not too. Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton play peons who cannot take a hint. Jami Gertz is wasted as Paxton's fiancée. Philip Seymour Hoffman is featured amongst the storm chasers proving that this material is far beneath his talent. This film should be flushed down a toilet to spin round and round and down. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"A middling disaster movie","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister was Jan de Bont's big budget follow-up to his surprise hit Speed. Focussing on a group of reckless storm chasers, the movie follows them as they court danger by attempting to study 'twisters' at close range.While the death-defying exploits of storm chasers are interesting in and of themselves, the movie needs something more to build a plot around. In this case, as with many other disaster movies, the personal angle is fraught with melodrama.Soon to be divorcées Jo (Helen Hunt) & Bill (Bill Paxton) cross paths in order to finalize their divorce proceedings but end up getting swept away in a sort of His Girl Friday plot that substitutes storm chasers for newspapermen. The leads make the best of their questionable material but, in the end, their presence only serves as a necessary excuse for showcasing copious amounts of destruction.The supporting cast contains a good sampling of talented character actors including Philip Seymour Hoffman, Alan Ruck & Jeremy Davies. Of the more prominent supporting cast, Cary Elwes is pretty forgettable as the requisite 'bad guy' and Jami Gertz is mostly just annoying as 'the other woman' (though perhaps that was the intent).Where the movie really stakes its claim is in the Oscar-nominated visual effects. Impressive for the time and still not bad to look at, the effects (courtesy of ILM) effectively convey a sense of the power behind these tornadoes. The sound design also received some well deserved Oscar recognition.Unfortunately, the merely competent direction of Jan de Bont and the sometimes laughable script fail to raise Twister to the heights of the best disaster movies. That being said, it is a perfectly acceptable popcorn movie, especially for viewers who are hankering more for spectacle than story. "},{"Title":"The Dark Side Of Nature","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Back in 1996 I recall my family and I went to see Twister in theaters when I was ten years and it reminds one of my favorite films today.Twister just has something for everyone and it is one of the best films of the 1990s and features special effects that are still impressive even today of course being done by the talented group at Industrial Light & Magic you should expect nothing less.The film plot centers around Bill Harding (Bill Paxton) and Dr.Jo Harding (Helen Hunt) as they begin to test their new Tornado warning system while Dr.Jonas Miller (Cary Elwes) is seeking to outdo them.Twister features a lot to make you want to watch the film it features a good cast with Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt working very well together their characters were perfectly matched together while Cary play the main antagonist of the film.The music in the film is very well done and each piece of music helps tells the story and characters.The special effects of the Tornadoes are superb and very well detail of the Tornadoes it really makes the Tornadoes are really on screen. The music in the film is a awesome mix of Van Halen, Goo Goo Dolls, k.d.lang, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Lisa Loeb, Stevie Nicks, Shania Twain and many more that is reason enough to pick up the soundtrack for Twister. Twister features a mix of action, comedy, and drama that helps move the film and story.I enjoy Helen and Bill's performances as well as the rest of the cast did a top notch job with their characters in the film. The acting in the film is very well crafted and you get to understand the charactersTwister is just a film that is hard not to enjoy because it features amazing special effects and very talented cast who work well togetherOverall Twister remains one of my favorite films I seen in theaters and one of my favorite movies today if you haven't seen it you'll love it.With a great story, good characters, superb music and top notch special effects you will be in for a wild good ride and there is something for everyone with Twister. I give Twister an 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A movie that might blow you away.","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a pretty exciting adventure movie about weather scientists Bill Harding (Bill Paxton) and Dr. Jo Harding (Helen Hunt), undergoing a divorce, who band together to track down tornadoes to install an advanced weather alert system in them so they could track down the storms' movements at least 15 minutes in advance.Everybody knows the devastation a tornado could cause, but seeing actual people chasing them down is intriguing. The effects for the twisters in this film were done pretty well, horrific and threatening. Seeing them tossing buildings, animals and vehicles in the air while the tornado-hunters are in the cross-hairs is a thrilling sight.The acting wasn't bad, but I think Helen Hunt's performance stole the show. Some others were a bit too overzealous like Paxton and Hoffman and I didn't care for the nerdy-scientist stereotype like the Haynes character portrayed by Wendle Josepher. But, some of the character chemistry like those between Hunt and Paxton were good, giving a nice intriguing subplot of the little love triangle involving Paxton's character's fiancée Dr. Melissa Reeves (Jami Gertz).The plot pretty much involves people chasing tornadoes and their trial and error experiments - not much unpredictable and suspenseful moments and the movie's momentum is quite steady at times. But, this movie overall should serve as a pretty nice and entertaining movie for a Saturday afternoon.Grade B- "},{"Title":"I doubt if real tornado nerds are as unlikeable as the ones in TWISTER","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Pretty good special effects built around a cast of good actors portraying very unlikeable tornado chasing geeks. Wow...how rude and self absorbed can these characters be??!! Its a good relationship/self awareness/maturity introspection teaching movie. If you are obsessed by some activity (like studying/chasing tornadoes) and decide to form a club of like-minded, completely dedicated nerds or geeks focused on that activity, then watch this movie and make sure you don't act these people. I felt bad for the Jami Gertz character. Granted, I was not sure what marriage/cheating/infidelity dynamics were going on but those tornado people sure did treat her poorly. She should never had shown up and attempted to hang with those people. I am going to try and be a nicer person when I see an outsider in my presence. Thanks for helping me become a better man. "},{"Title":"Don't let the score fool you. This movie is a lot of fun!","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie came out when I was in college way back. That's all.Wait, they're saying my review doesn't contain enough lines. So IMDb wants me to keep typing useless junk? Well, OK. Like my subject says, this movie is a lot of fun.Hitting preview now.Wait! Wow! 10 lines of text! OK. Umm. This movie is neat. I think people that don't like it just expect too much?I really don't know what else to write.Oh! Did I mention that I saw this back in college when it first came out? "},{"Title":"Bill Paxton is the bomb","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister's cast is amazing, everyone gives a stellar performance. But the one that really impresses me is Bill Paxton. He is just one of the most unrated actor in the business and should be put on the same level as Hanks, Williams, and even Stewart. Although he is a character actor he is excellent. Now the movie itself if good, but not great. I've watched this since I was a kid, then I only liked the tornadoes and the destruction. Now I look at everything else, and the film has part that seem fake and a lot of mistakes in between shots. The special effects used for the twisters are somewhat impressive, but I've seen better. They weren't exactly believable. So as a whole, Bill Paxton was awesome, everyone else was good, and the film itself is alright. Bill Paxton is the reason the rating is so high. Luckily, this film is appealing to kids, except for some light profanity. As long as your kids don't repeat the words, they should be fine. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining and fun disaster blockbuster","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister has a special place in my heart because it inspired me to follow to have a career in meteorology and my love for weather in general. So I might be a bit more biased when I look upon this movie compared to other people. However, while I do agree that it is not perfect, I still think that it is a ball of disaster movie fun.Good What makes this work the most is the cast. I really do like the cast in this movie as they provide a lot of funny banter and chemistry between each other. Plus, aside from Paxton and Hunt, you get supporting characters in Elwes, Seymour Hoffman,and Alan Ruck. I also really liked that it is a big budget disaster movie and it doesn't involve any big cities or landmarks getting destroyed. Just focused on farms and small towns. De Bont directs this movie with a lot of energy with great sweeping shots of fields and towns and a lot of great camera angles. The effects and destruction are still top notch here also.Bad Like most disaster movies, there is plenty of logical holes in this movie where these characters escape death nearly every moment in this movie. Also, there is some dialogue that feels like just filler or just dumb.Overall, in terms of disaster movies, it is one of the better ones out there with some great action and funny characters. There is some dumb moments, but its so entertaining and fast paced that the flaws don't get in the way. "},{"Title":"Soap plus effects equals decent family action adventure","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There's these two scientists who specialise in tornadoes, but their marriage is falling apart. Fortunately, new tornado testing doodads coincide with hurricane season and unethical competitors, which pushes them back together. And guess what they discover? I gather that much of the science in this movie is pretty suspect - there were times when I too wondered why the protagonists' truck seemed to be solidly attached to the ground while stuff 5 times the size was being flung about like matchsticks.But films like these are about the spectacle, with a bit of soap opera to help you care about the people caught up in things, and Twister does perfectly well here. The tornadoes are well realised with a combination of physical effects and CGI, and Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt are duly sympathetic as our romance-riven scientists. "}{"Title":"Suspenseful and Sucsessful","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I just can't believe so many people have bad things to say about this move,Sure its not the best movie out there, but it is enjoyable considering the effects were amazing, the characters were developed decently and the story was put together pretty well. The only thing that is kind of annoying is the storm chasing team seemed more like a fraternity group rather than a group of storm chasers and I also thought Jo's dads (I'm assuming death) was a bit to much in the beginning of the movie but overall it was worth watching its just too bad a sequel was never made, but if one was made I would go and see it for sure. "},{"Title":"Could have been good","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Those wacky tornado chasers. I'm sure all storm chasers are like the ones portrayed in this movie. Borderline retarded and gung-ho or acting like they have a stick up their ass like the rival storm chasers are. The story sucked and yet this movie could have been a great action suspense film. There is no chemistry between Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton. Both are boring and annoying. The scene where she is walking toward the tornado because she was so traumatized as a kid from a twister was just stupid and I wish for the movie it would have sucked her up. The only good thing about this film was the song Humans Being by Van Halen. This flick is about as weak as it can get. "},{"Title":"Twister is Twisted **1/2","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yes, the special effects are awesome. Faced with these tornadoes,even Dorothy and the Wicked Witch may have called it a day or reached a truce in their never ending battle.The story itself is so predictable with Bill and Jo set to divorce and the former ready to marry a therapist. They are caught up in a variety of tornadoes that wreak absolute havoc in Oklahoma. By 1 1/2 hours into this film, our therapist knows that she can't compete and gracefully bows out of the picture.Jo is trying to set up sensors so that people can get longer warnings of up to 15 minutes before tornadoes strike. The sensors are appropriately named Dorothy with her picture from Oz appearing on them.Ironically, as character Meg watches Judy Garland in A Star is Born, a fierce tornado strikes. "},{"Title":"The real victim of the twister?  Plot.","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There are a lot of things that can be said about this movie; amazing effects and compositing, Luke warm story telling, and under-developed characters to name a few. For me, the thing that really made this film unpalatable was the plot hole that pushes this story forward.The story isn't a bad idea, if they had stuck to it at all. Typical man vs. nature; little girl loses father due to inadequate tornado warning time and dedicates her life to studying said storms in order to increase said warning time; sub-plot marital strife brought on by inability to reconcile or let go of previous trauma. Both plots culminate with her securing the data she needs and simultaneously learning, though a close call, to stop living in the past and embrace the future because there's no guarantee that the future is always going to be there.Again, decent story arc had the writers/directors/powers-that-be actually stuck to that idea without getting lost on making things unrealistically dramatic. The main failure (potentially the most critical) Father's untimely death by tornado had nothing to do with warning time. Open first scene, we see father watching news broadcast while storm rages outside. As the Tornado Warning is announced, the father hears the (oddly animalistic) roar of the impending tornado outside of the family window. Mother and father ascend the stairs and fetch their daughter, Joe, to flee for the cellar. What should have happened Mother, daughter, and perhaps the little dog too, make it into the storm shelter first. As father attempts to close the door behind him, tornadic winds pull it asunder and yank both the door and the father from safety's harbor. If only there had been more time! Then everyone would have been safe. What actually happened Everyone makes it to the shelter in time. When the F5 (winds with the potential to pull at 300+ miles an hour, mind you) arrives, Joe's Dad makes the fatal (and really, really, really stupid) decision, to hold the door closed in a futile attempt to aid in the door's losing battle with the tornado. The real tragedy with this plot point, is that, had brave father never bothered to hold the door, everyone would have made it out alive. So&#x85;if Joe REALLY wanted to attack the culprit of her father's death, she'd be visiting local schools and community centers stressing tornado safety for all and campaigning against tornado myths and ignorance (admittedly, not as compelling as hunting tornadoes, but at least it'd have been coherent). Ignoring this crucial plot point, broke the suspension of disbelief for me. Rest assured there are plenty of far fetched moments in this movie (the ending is so monumentally absurd, it borders on comedic), but that's the one the I found the most distracting.Yes, the CG is beautiful (hence the 5 stars). Yes, the composite team did a terrific job of making a sunny blue sky look like an ominous breeding ground for death, but that's really all there was to this movie. If you like suspense and CG, then by all means, watch away! But if you want coherent story, thoughtful character development, and a plausible ending&#x85;best look else where. "},{"Title":"Am impressive waste of a couple of hours - if you like this type of films","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" At first I wasn't really all that sure about this movie, expecting it to be a load of meaningless pap simply being sold on the special effects and the chance to watch tornadoes rip things apart and a loose plot to tie everything together. Well, it was everything that I expected, but I also enjoyed watching the movie as the characters were actually quite entertaining, and the way the movie was created did give quite a bit of suspense to it. The movie also left images in my mind, which is also something that I appreciated about it.The movie is about a group of scientists that are out researching tornadoes and are trying to gather information by launching a device known as Dorothy into them. While they are doing this, another researcher, Jonas, funded by corporations, is trying to do the same thing - he is the enemy and also the idiot.The reviewers claimed that the characters were poor and got lost in the special effects of the film that dominated the film. Well, I agree that the special effects dominate the movie, but also the characters had their little memorable traits. I like Jo (Helen Hunt) who seemed to be a scientist dedicated to her work and couldn't hold a grudge against anybody, including her ex-husband's fiancé. Bill (Bill Paxton) is her ex-husband, and though the reviewers claim that there is no explanation why they split up, I disagree. There is a scene where Jo is simply making conversation and Bill turns it into an argument. I said that Jo couldn't hold a grudge, and she doesn't, but Bill is a bit of a twit at times, not realising what gifts he has.There is another reason why they were together at first, and get together again in the movie, after Bill's fiancé leaves due to her realisation that he chases real tornadoes, and that is that when you are together in a truck literally facing a life or death situation, it is not surprising that one develops an intense emotional attachment. In fact we can see this attachment developing as they begin to work together again throwing themselves into the front of tornadoes and dodging trees, telephone cables, cows, and semi-trailers.One might claim that with the breath-taking effects, it would only be good on the big screen, but the thing is that Twister works well on the little screen as well. It is probably better in the cinema, especially the scene where the truck emerges out of the tornado, and you think it is something small until it comes a lot closer. And then there is the tornado that sneaks up on the drive-in, giving them absolutely no time to react because it is suddenly there.The effects were good, and the suspense in this movie held up much longer than it did in Speed. Even though we knew that they were not going to die, simply watching them try to outrun a huge kilometer long tornado is something in itself. And then as they tie themselves down and watch a tornado pass over them - it is something that many of us don't get to do or even want to do. I think that Twister is a far superior to the director's earlier creation, Speed, but it still lacks a lot of what would become a superior movie. "},{"Title":"a real movie","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" the movie has great lines, is very funny, and a wonderful sense of kinematic reality. The actual 'twister' is Helen Hunt, as male and nature are drawn toward her. Cricton wrote the script, and maybe it's intentional that the actual tornado needed a strong actor counterpart to balance the film -- in any case, she's filmed strong enough that it works. De Bont is OK, but maybe doesn't even know what he's done -- in the commentary all he talks about are the special effects, and maybe that's where the money was for this film and maybe that's what he really is interested in. But, in any case the casting and direction make for as real a cinematic experience for me as Casablanca -- take that as you will and with the understanding that it's the soul of a film that things move towards and away from one another and that the actors are just an outline on the screen too.Great film for anyone with a heart and with a kid's sense of just riding the film. "},{"Title":"Cow... Loads of flying fun","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Bill Harding (Bill Paxton) is trying to get his tornado-hunter wife Dr. Jo Harding (Helen Hunt) to sign the divorce papers, marry his girlfriend Melissa (Jami Gertz), and start his new job as a TV weatherman. But forgetting the divorce papers, a chance to use their latest contraption Dorothy, and an old nemesis Dr. Jonas Miller (Cary Elwes) pushes Bill to come along for a ride to hunt tornadoes.This is a fun wild thrill ride worthy of all the popcorn. The characters are all straight forward. There isn't much subtlety. They do some fun jokes. It's all about the roller coaster ride. The CG is pretty good for its times. The action is big fun whether it's a falling truck or a flying cow. "},{"Title":"OK but not Great","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Overall not that bad of a movie, even with the gross inaccuracies that come with the portrayal of storm chasing in it. I always enjoy watching Twister when it's on because its just a simple summer blockbuster with some cool special effects. As other people have pointed out, the science is a good ways off, but unless you're a meteorologist or weather enthusiast it shouldn't be particularly bothersome. As a chaser, I'm able to enjoy this movie because it does get the feeling of a chase almost dead on. The excitement on a day before the first storms go up is caught pretty well. Now to the science part, while Twister has many flaws (the preliminary ratings before the tornado has even dissipated to name one), some of the issues listed below are totally false. Violent tornadoes can and do happen at night. Boundary layer cooling does not mean violent tornadoes cannot occur at night (a la Greensburg, Kansas EF5 in 2007 or the Super Tuesday Outbreak in 2008). Next, while tornadoes do not usually last for hours, tornadoes can and have lasted for more than 75 minutes (Tuscaloosa EF4 April 27, 2011. Lasted from 340 CDT to 550 CDT). "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am a huge Michael Crichton fan ever since Jurassic Park, Timeline, and The Lost World. After watching this movie I saw a Michael Crichton novel brought to life. Every character is fleshed out and memorable from Dusty to Beltzer and Bill. If you are a Michael Crichton you will love this movie. This movie is well acted by Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt. The scenarios they are in a very realistic with real tension there and as well some moments where there are character moments. This movie makes you feel for them and feel like part of the group. Twister has beautiful visual effects by ILM and they still hold up today. I was surprised when I saw the score for the movie as a 6.1. I give this movie a 10/10. A great 90's movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Fun and Exciting","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Bill Harding (Bill Paxton) has just become a television weatherman and he wants a divorce. So he takes his new fiancé Melissa Reeves (Jami Gertz) with him to ask his soon-to-be ex-wife Jo Harding (Helen Hunt) to sign the divorce papers. Since she and her group of colleagues are in the field trying to chase tornadoes, that's where he and Melissa have to go as well. Now, prior to becoming a weatherman he and Jo were working on a recently completed project they named Dorothy which was a device capable of measuring scientific data within a twister. But in order for it to work they have to put it directly in front of a tornado as it is bearing down on them. If that wasn't bad enough, a former co-worker named Jonas Miller (Cary Elwes) has stolen their idea and has formed his own group. However, unlike Jo's group, Jonas and his group have corporate sponsorship. This has enabled them to build their own version of Dorothy which he has named D.O.T. 3. Jonas and his group also have more sophisticated equipment. But Jo's group now has Bill and his instincts are superior to any man or machine. At any rate, rather than spoiling the movie for those who haven't seen it, I won't go any further with the plot. However, I will say that this film is fun and exciting. The special effects were excellent and I liked the supporting cast of characters. And if it wasn't for some of the incredibly preposterous scenarios, I probably would have rated it higher. Even so, it's still an enjoyable movie all the same. "}{"Title":"Disaster leads to Romance","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The film Twister, written by Michael Crichton and Anne-Marie Martin and later directed by Jan De Bont was the second highest grossing film of 1996. The heavily anticipated disaster drama was action packed much like Bont's other films. Bont created Twister for anyone who loves to watch natural disasters unfold on the big screen. The movie had quite a few unrealistic scenes; however there were realistic ideas behind the actions. The script as well as acting is what lead to a very popular and exciting film.Twister in a nutshell is about two scientist/ storm chasers meeting up to get divorce papers finalized. While husband Bill Harding is more concerned with ending his marriage to start another with fiancée, Dr. Melissa Reeves, wife Dr. Jo Harding is focused on launching a dangerous scientific machine (Dorothy) that will provide the scientist with never before developed tornado data. With the understanding of internal structures of tornados the scientist will be able to create an advanced tornado warning system. Along the way fiancée Melissa can't handle the exciting life Bill leads leaving husband and wife to tackle the storms together. After close calls and deadly storms the couple ends up sending sensors straight into the eye of the storm and rekindling a lost relationship.While parts of this action packed film are unrealistic the film is overall enjoyable for families, adults and children. Twister, in relation to director Bont's other film Speed had action unfolding during the opening of the film and never letting up, keeping audiences on the edge of their seats in anticipation. The film producers were able to produce new cinematography never seen before. The realism of the tornados created by new technology lead to this movie placing in one of the top ranked movies of its day. Compared to the graphic of today there is a noticeable improvement, but in the 1990's the realism of a natural disaster was unheard of. Director Bont creates moods and tornadic environments with the green, blue, and blackish coloring. Not only do the colors help the audience know its storm time but the wide verity of up tempo music leads into the scene as well. On the tail of one giant tornado the film's music ranges all the way from rock to classic, all setting the mode for the adventure filled chase.A tornado film had never been done before so at the time the technology seemed amazing, but if you exclude the graphics the film follows a pretty unrealistic path. Events such as a Dodge Ram truck staying grounded and surviving high velocity winds, while a semi barreled out of the tornado made me question the realism of the movie. During the film, lead actor Bill Paxton (Bill Harding) climbs into the back of a moving pickup while hail the size of golf balls come crashing down on top of him. Anyone who has ever been hit by hail knows just how much that hurts and standing in it for a period of time would be painful for him to stand.While the film contains unrealistic events it still has some realistic aspects that can be found in most movies. The films main characters whose job is to follow the tornados in order to collect helpful data do just that. The directors and producers worked hard at making their fast chases seem natural. The cast played these scenes particularly well and it seemed as if they were true scientist excited for the challenge. This film also contains a rivalry between two group of scientist and rivalry between two women pining for a man's love. The scripted bickering was completely believable and left the audiences rooting for scientist Bill and Jo. Not only does the script work in favor of a plausible story line, the main characters Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton create a chemistry that is also very believable. These actors played the parts to their fullest potential and if I had the choice to recast this movie none of the actors would have been replaced. Every part, major of minor played a role in creating the atmosphere and they were all spot on.Everyone was excited to see this kind of destruction on the big screen and the directors and producers exceeded expectations. In my opinion the unrealistic aspects didn't affect the quality of the movie and I think those who helped it reach second highest grossing film would have to agree as well. This movie will forever pop into my mind and the minds of others who watched when they hear tornado sirens blaring. Overall the film is enjoyable and one that everyone should see. "},{"Title":"Twister isn't that bad of a movie","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A storm is brewing in the distance indeed, because some critics are hating this film. Directed by Jan de Bont, Twister (1996) stars Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Cary Elwes, and Philip Seymour Hoffman. It's kind of funny that the original tag-line for the film was going to be It sucks but the producers felt that it worked too much to the advantage of disappointed audiences and critics. It's doesn't really suck in a bad way. It's a very entertaining piece&#x97;not that good, but not that bad. Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt as an estranged couple who chase tornadoes for a living surprising the dialogue between them is funny and catchy&#x97;it's felt very well written for a disaster movie. We follow these storm-chasers during a wild 24-hour-period in a quest to deploy a large piece of scientific equipment in the path of a tornado, in hopes of studying it's traits from the inside with a rag-tag team of scientists. Each supporting cast of the movie's crew of storm-chasers has its bits of character develop stereotypes and exaggerated caricatures of real people. You have the smart guy with the map, the computer guy, the film and camera crew&#x85; but most of all; you got Dusty play by Philip Seymour Hoffman. It's very cool to see him in a role where he doesn't take himself so serious, because most of his roles after this movie were a big serious. While, not chasing storms, the viewer are treated with a sub-story of Bill getting suck into the thrill of storm chasing, forcing him to reconnect an relationship with Josie (Helen Hunt's character) and ignoring his relationship with his new girlfriend. We get a back story of Helen Hunt's character reasons why she track storms, in a way to get revenge on them, for the death of her father who die from one. Then you got the story of the rivalry of competing storm-chasing teams lead by Carl Elwes. Carl Elwes plays also a caricature of the evil, corporation man who in it for money rather than science opposite of Bill's character. Without giving too much out away&#x97;it's incredibly entertaining. It's a very cookie-cutter popcorn flick. The CGI tornadoes were great at the time of filming, plus it's pretty real to me. It's eye candy. Just don't take the sum-story so serious, and enjoy yourself. You would be blow away how some critics deem it 'bad', and find yourself having fun watching it. "},{"Title":"Successful sfx vehicle","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A perfectly entertaining but perilously shallow film. A re-working of classic bounty hunting Westerns, the all-but-divorced Hardings (Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt) get - excuse me - sucked into trying to deploy cutting edge meteorological technology directly into a Twister. Another crew equipped with 'DOROTHY' (yes, that's the name of the device, I kid you not) is after the prize as well. The Mexican stand-off of competing weather teams, deadly whirlwind and undiminished spousal tension is the drama that keeps the film alive.In the meantime we are subject to some violent but rather wonderful special effects. One imagines the excitement is not dissimilar to that which the Lumiere brothers inflicted on unsuspected cinematic virgins with foreshortened trains careering towards the screen a century ago. That's the appeal of the film and if you go for that it's a winner. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Facing nature without a technical advisor","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The special effects were excellent and Helen Hunt was attractive; those are the good points. The best to be said for the rest is that we laughed. If they had even ONE person on staff who had been through a tornado, it probably wouldn't have been so funny. Helen Hunt certainly wouldn't have made it out of the storm cellar in one of the first scenes.  "},{"Title":"Goofy!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Boy, talk about a Goofy movie! And I'm not talking the Disney Hyuck! Goofy, either!No, wait... on second thought, maybe I am. Let me put it to you this way if a lot of the characters in this flick aren't really clones of Goofy, they're sure close.Tornadoes are my absolute worst fear in the world. Ever since learning what one was when I was 4--the same way a lot of children did, by watching The Wizard of Oz--I have hated and feared them all my life. Fortunately, I don't live in tornado country. But once when visiting tornado country for a couple of years and having to live through tornado warnings, I was absolutely terrified. Even earthquakes, as awful as they are, don't scare me as bad as tornadoes do--that's because an earthquake doesn't look like a giant, living, breathing, demonic THING of a monster hunting you down with an agenda of killing you and devouring everything you own!So I avoided watching this movie for years until now. The first time I ever heard of it was when I went to a local WB store to buy cartoon shirts...and the trailer for this yet-to-be-released-at-that-point film came up on the big screen there, and it scared me so badly that I literally threw up right there on the floor.Now, the reason why I mention all of this is so that you can get a good understanding of what I'm about to describe concerning Twister as entertainment value. You would think that I would be even more frightened than the average moviegoer when seeing this film.Surprisingly, even I watched it without a twitch.Instead of a tense action-packed thriller, what we have here is a supremely silly movie that's so inept in logic and plot development that I don't know where to begin. In fact, it's only a hairsbreath away from being something to be mocked on Mystery Science Theater 3000! I won't go into a list of details which you would have to be blind as a bat to miss, but there's one I just can't resist because it made me laugh so hard--I found it hilarious that everybody was driving right next to dangerous tornadoes, and even between them, and yet all through the bad weather Melissa the therapist continues to get calls on her cel phone and is able to keep perfectly normal conversations with her callers without any call dropping or interference. Just what kind of a technical marvel WAS it she was conversing on, anyway?!As for the crew of tornado chasers... well, that's where the earlier Goofy comment comes into play. We're talking weird, smelly, nerdy, bucktoothed, southern-accent-insulting weirdos here. I mean, you can just imagine their breath smelling of Jack Daniels. Even though Melissa was annoying in her prim neatness, I couldn't help feeling sorry for her--not because her character was interesting, mind you, but because she reacted to these bozos with the exact same disbelief and forced politeness I personally would have!She finally yells at them, YOU'RE ALL CRAZY, YOU KNOW THAT??? My feelings exactly, Melissa.Add into all this overacting leads, a completely predictable love triangle situation AND a ridiculous subplot involving a rival scientist, and you have a film which is pretty good for a few bellylaughs on a Saturday night!Oh, and by the way, the tornadoes look fake. Well, at least they do on the TV-sized screen. Maybe they look more impressive in a theater, I wouldn't know. But on a small television tube they look like a jumble of grey computer graphics, like something out of a videogame. Which, in a way, they certainly are.It won't scare, but I'm pretty positive that you'll laugh at it. It's not Plan 9, but it sure does seem to be the equivlalent of a modern-day Ed Wood production!  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister used to be my favorite movie of all time, but maybe thats because I was completely fasinated with tornados. Now I think that the only reason a person would watch it is because of the twister since the plot sucked. Helen Hunt is one of my favorite actresses and she was good in the movie but there wasn't much to act out. 5/10 because of the cool tornados. "},{"Title":"Special Effects and a little bit more","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having lived in a mobile home for most of by childhood, and having a love of disaster films, I had to see Twister.  Naturally, the highlight to Twister is the special effects.  These cyclonic CGIs are truly terrifying at times (especially for a former trailer park denizen)...and a tad humorous as well (especially the flying cow). The effects and the pacing of the story make for a rather intense experience, and even though the characters are pretty much cut out from cardboard, they do have enough personality to make you care about them.  Bill Paxton is excellent and Helen Hunt is good as always. Cary Elwes' character is pretty incidental to the story and is not the sort of character he usually plays. Jamie Gertz is, well, Jamie Gertz. "},{"Title":"High tech special effects delight the eyes..inept story killed my brain.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  TWISTER was a movie I was originally interested in seeing, yet, the film has great actors and good effects yet, the team of scientists are protrayed as GEN X dweebs and not like REAL storm chasers you see on TV. The film has a DUKES OF HAZARD appraoch to disastermovies, yet, had eye popping effects. The film uses a PSI FACTOR type team structure yet, the team is annoying with character bleching out lines like suck zone I wanted to run out of the theater crying. I respect MICHAEL CRICHTON but I expected more. Much more. The premise is incredible and the first of it's kind as a feature film. Helen Hunt was fine and the subplot revolving around her life made for some conflict but not enough for me to justify 2 hours. BILL PAXTON is also good...I mean their acting is excellent, yet, the film was a huge hit and not a flop. Fans of films like VOLCANO will love this movie. A fast paced film for watching with the family.  "},{"Title":"The most fun dung heap ever made","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Every single plot line, every bit of dialogue, and all the acting in Twister are horrible.  Clearly it was written so that your average five year old could follow every second.  This movie is stupid in ways that most movies haven't even thought of.  I've seen it at least fifteen times.  I'm hooked.  I can't explain it.  You watch the movie and it's just like being caught in those tornado blown fields.  I get a rush of adrenaline and a thrill at the power of nature every single time.  This is the ultimate guilty pleasure movie.  At least once a minute it elicits groans from anyone watching it, but you just can't turn away. "},{"Title":"bad effects interesting ideas though","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Every time I watch this movie I discover new mistakes.  It's rather irritating to be honest because this drags the movie down.  The plot is interesting in that the real storm chasers have tried to put something like D.O.T 3 up into a tornado but have been unsucessful.  The CGI is great and the tornadoes look rather real but the mistakes in the movie kill it.  For instance, a scene on a muddy country road has shots of a paved 2-way highway.  I am disappointed on in the fact that no one edited these mistakes out. "}{"Title":"Eye Candy, not Brain Candy","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  (Spoiler warning)This movie typifies elements of Spielberg and Crichton.  Some interesting science, formulaic characters and plot (though the absence of the Spielberg 'smarter than adults' snotty kids was refreshing) a few nice touches like 'Dorothy'.  The superb special effects leave you with a lasting impression that you've really chased a tornado.  The long distance shots of barns decimated by the storm had an almost surreal quality.(BTW, did anyone else wonder whether the radio transmitters in the little globes would be able to operate amid the debris that the tornado was carrying?  Especially since TV reception evidently ceased?  They also didn't explain how the storm chaser's vehicles were untouched when all buildings and other vehicles in the entire town in which they were parked were summarily destroyed.)But, as I said, this is a movie to feast your eyes, not your brain upon.The husband/wife situation of 'The Abyss' was copied, though not half as effectively.  Of course you have the zany but lovable scientific rag-tag group versus the evil, clinical corporate sponsored group.  It kind of bothered me how they senselessly killed off the leader of the 'corporate' group.  I guess you need a villain and they figured moviegoers need to seem him killed off.  Personally I thought it was pointless. "},{"Title":"Forget about the plot","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The shorter version of the movie featuring only twisters would be a really good one. There is actually no plot at all in this movie - some caricature kinds of human actors are rushing and running in every directions. The most amusing part are evil meteorologists in black vans, black clothes, black notebooks...  "},{"Title":"Awesome and action-packed","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is the type of movie that packs action, drama, romance, and terrific special effects together to get one great movie.  AWESOME movie!  Good plot, excellent effects, and well-defined characters, plus a talented cast and director. "},{"Title":"If this movie would have live footage, I  would have loved it. But then again, the world ain't perfect!","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Almost everyone who's reading this remembers 'Speed' as one of the breakthrough movies of Jan de Bont.  But no matter how hard he tries to make a better one, it fails. Not everything about 'Twister' sucks, but it's about to become one of the biggest failures of the nineties. Why? Because they've put TOO MANY SPECIAL EFFECTS in it!  Com'on! I've never seen a twister thàt big and people standing at the side of the road watching it, without getting sucked into it! And who can tell me that there's oxygen in the core of a twister -- so consider it a miracle that Bill and Jo are still alive when they got out of the big twister at the end!Nope, you can't call 'Twister' a success. Maybe if they had put live footage in it, I would have loved it. Too bad about the cast, cause I think that Helen Hunt and Alan Ruck did a great job. "},{"Title":"ok for the f/x, other than that, a soap opera","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is fine if you like lots of big loud special effects, or are a natural disaster fan. This movie has plenty of good effects, which are best viewed on DVD with a good sound system. But it's couched in a rather bland plot, with lots of annoying characters. There seems to be a trend in action movies lately that feature a merry band of meteorologists, geologists, astronauts, what-have-you. These merry bands, also found in movies like Dante's Peak and Armageddon, usually consist of very obnoxious and annoying people who joke around and bicker among themselves, as they go about doing whatever it is they do. In Twister, our merry band goes around chasing tornadoes and exchanging witty asides to one another. There is also Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton as the estranged couple who are on the verge of a divorce, but must first survive being swept away a few times by killer tornadoes.  "},{"Title":"Overblown and empty at it's centre, Twister fails to do justice to it's subject matter.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The astonishing cinema trailer for this film creates a standard that is almost impossible to sustain over nearly two hours. The failure of Twister is largely due to the underdeveloped story and uncharismatic lead characters, which can't match the impressive special effects-driven set pieces. Jan de Bont doesn't have the advantage of his previous film Speed's plot device to drive the story onwards, and the numerous references to The Wizard of Oz simply remind the audience of a far, far better film. Despite a cast including award-winner Helen Hunt, the group of storm-chasing meteorologists fail to pass their awe on to the audience. Anyone who has seen documentary footage of tornadoes and hurricanes will be disappointed to see one of nature's mightiest phenomena reduced to a stutter.(Simon.)  "},{"Title":"If your looking for plot, avoid.","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ok, Twister has no real plot to speak of, and the acting at times verges from really awful, to just plain wooden, but as a lesson in how far CGI effects can be taken, Twister should be ranked just behind Jurassic Park in terms of sheer visual spectacle.If you really want to get the most enjoyment out of this movie you should watch it on the biggest screen possible, because it loses most of its impact when viewed on video. Having recently seen this film on DVD it really is a showcase for the films impressive sound effects, and with the right home-cinema set-up this is a title worth renting. If you've already seen it in the cinema, it's not really worth bothering with since it really is one of those films that becomes embarrassing to watch after a while. Nevertheless, it's nice to see Bill Paxton in one of his few starring roles, and what amazed me even more then the special effects is how Helen Hunt can go from this rather dodgy performance to her oscar winning turn in As Good As It Gets.5/10. "},{"Title":"Definitely not going to suck the open-minded film-going public up.","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film loses me from the start. Although, the science of Tornado's is kind of explained, you have little clue of what many of the characters actually do. I feel sorry that good actors such as Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt got caught up in this. The plot is thin and absolutely stupid at times.Can you actually believe they're planning a sequel! "},{"Title":"The real horror is the plot","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  OK, I'm the director, I've spent billions on the brilliant special effects, (the combine harvesters dropping from the sky) but they only last 5 minutes. I've now got just 25 cents for the rest of the movie! The plot just screams time-wasting filler. These characters are really super uninteresting, the weirdo gang never develop at all. Who is the repulsive fat guy. Who is the plain jane who never gets to speak (just a couple of words may be). Final word I'd like to nominate Dorothy for an Oscar as stupidest gadget "},{"Title":"FX, no dialogue","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This isn't a really bad movie. I enjoyed it and I sat through the entirety of the film. However, I saw a third and fourth time on tape and then I start to criticize. I like the special effects and computer generated graphics. I think it's neat. however, like all beg bidget films, this does not excuse a genuine dialogue. Helen Hunt did great and I liked her a lot in the movie. Bill Paxton was given a terrible script and I thought it did him no good. If you had to point the low point, Bill Harding is. He seems more like a blabbering idiot who can't make up his mind whether to do his job and chase tornadoes or argue with his ex-partner. Two thumbs down to him and his dialogue. Seriously, whoever wrote the script -- and I bet a dime Whedon has something to do with this -- screwed up my respect for Bill so much so I had to take out my Aliens tape and watch it to admire him again. Twister gets a 6 overall on my grade with that  minus 4 from a poorly written script. "}{"Title":"Special effects but no movie","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The special effects in this movie are great, but that is if you watch in a theater, not on your TV. The plot line is dumb, and the acting is about the same. Although this movie still has all of that behind it I can still find myself watching it just to see the tornado push around big trucks and blow cows across the screen. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, to an extent.","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The special fx are fantastic.  But trying to incorporate a love story was oh so wrong.  They should've just been all gung-ho, don't care if we die, no emotion idiots.  It would've been more fun. "},{"Title":"A good old film.","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If you like adventure, if you like the 90's, disasters and hippies...Look no further.This movie, despite it's old, is very well made.The special effects are correct, and even a bit too much (a tornado doesn't make THAT sound, seriously...).It's just a bit sad that the story is quick  it could have taken 3 movies with the same storyline.But it's a good movie though.Not a great one.But still a good one. "},{"Title":"Cow?","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" first off the flying cow. wow that is like one of my favorite scenes in any movie period and the tag lines that were presented in the movie,, after seeing the Cow for the first and subsequent times. Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt play off of each other very well in this picture.. The director was about 15 years ahead of his time.. look what we have today in the 2010's , the weather channel storm-chaser's several programs about that. I love the idea that in this movie you have dueling teams of Storm Chaser's the other team is headed up by a cocky Jake Busey. throughout the movie you will see some of the most horrifying scenes of twisters that can be put on film,, the funnel clouds , the wall the spinning rotation,, the vortex,, you can tell i'm a weather junkie can't you.. I live in the Midwest now and I have seen one tornado high up in the sky once right over my house,, thank god it didn't touch down,, found out later it was a F1 but still, I think that if people would stop and watch Twister seriously maybe some people in the country especially the Midwest would be better suited to deal with a tragedy like this, see you can actually learn a few things from watching a movie these days,, I loved this movie,, it is my perfect storm. "},{"Title":"Great Film with Great CGI (for it's time)","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Of course today's CGI is more realistic, but this film was made in 1996! That's why I prefer my old VHS version. The pan & scan is annoying but the slight fuzziness makes the CGI appear more convincing. The DVD is too clear! Otherwise, turn down your sharpness and enjoy maybe the best definitive tornado movie ever made! Stormchasers in Oklahoma in Tornado Alley at the peak of the May season. The plot, at times, is cloying and slows down the action. However, Jo (Helen Hunt) believes that the tornadoes are stalking her and Bill (Paxton) is great as the human barometer. So much eerie similarity to 2013's real disaster It's set in Oklahoma. It's a F5 storm. Are the storms technically accurate? Probably not. I still love that poor flying cow. The gasoline tanker that almost seems to explode twice? Driving through a house turned on it's side?--both impossible, of course. Bill's sex therapist fiancé is annoying but the Dorothy telemetry tracking devise is real. It's based on a real prototype nicknamed Toto! A lot of little Spielberg touches. The storms seem to growl. Intentionally humorous scenes and dialog. Jo seems to see her family standing in the rubble of her Aunt's town, which of course is impossible. It's a great roller coaster ride all the way, even on the home screen. Look for Philip Seymour Hoffman as Dusty, who just died in 2014. Today, we have almost a 15 min. tornado warning because of Doppler Radar, but it still isn't enough time to evacuate. Still timely In Oklahoma (2013), thousands were injured, displaced, and many died. This movie needs to be re-released on the big screen with IMAX 3D and updated special effects. (We were fortunate enough to see it on a big screen with Dolby sound and it was fantastic!) "},{"Title":"Chasing Tornadoes","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have to give credit to director Jan de Bont, who managed to take a movie that has very little in terms of meaningful story and yet still turned out a movie that was both exciting and fun to watch. Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton were likable enough leads. The lack of story perhaps meant that their acting abilities weren't really stretched too far. They had to spend a lot of their time looking either apprehensive or downright scared, but - yes - they are likable, and they pulled off their parts well enough.Basically they play storm chasers, and we spend most of the movie watching them do just that chasing tornadoes through much of Oklahoma with a device they've invented that will give more information than ever about tornadoes and how to predict them. The trouble (1) getting close enough to the tornadoes, and (2) getting the tornadoes to suck up the device so that it can take its measurements. Yeah. It was pretty exciting at times. The tornado effects were incredible, with perhaps just one exception near the end of the movie, with a scene of a farmers field in which virtually everything in the field looked like toys. Aside from that, the effects were well done. There's a very good opening sequence set in the past, in which Hunt's character of Jo Harding (as a child) sees her home destroyed and her father killed by a massive tornado, which at least explains why she's so obsessed with these storms.Let's be honest, though. The story is lacking. What story there is turns out to be quite secondary to the tornadoes - and the tornadoes themselves, in some ways even more than Hunt and Paxton, are the stars of the movie. Most of what was included to add dramatic or sometimes even comedic content didn't strike me as especially necessary. Paxton's character of Bill Harding shows up with his girlfriend simply to get Jo to sign their divorce papers. The whole idea of the ex-wife vs new girlfriend added very little to the movie, and for whatever reason there was a decision to turn this into a competition movie. Jo and Bill are the leaders of the good guy storm chasers but there's also a team of bad guy storm chasers (in it not for the science but for the money, as Bill tells us.) They come replete with a caravan of black, official looking vehicles (that's rather cliché) while Bill and Jo and their team travel around in a motley crew of multi-colored vehicles. I don't know why that aspect of the story had to be included. It struck me as silly.For all that, though, this will never bore you. It's fun and exciting, even if it is lacking in meaningful story content. (5/10) "},{"Title":"No, Really, a Roller-Coaster Ride","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister depends entirely on the attitude you bring to it. It was directed by Jan de Bont, who helmed Speed. Like Speed, Twister is about natural forces causing a group of human beings to struggle through a race for survival, a few obligatory ham-fisted bad guys who lead these people to be in direct opposition with such things as the laws of gravity and physics. The difference is that in Speed, said scientific laws were the weapon of the bad guy. In Twister, which transplants the essential streamlined action-disaster formula onto the wild everyday life of storm-chasers, the tornado attacks function almost as Godzilla-style environmental monsters.I'm sorry to have sacrificed honesty for a well-structured paragraph There is not just one difference between Speed and Twister that makes Twister inferior. Twister also just blindly follows the signifying elements of its lockstep commercial formula and in the process commits adultery against the themes that would've made it genuinely interesting Past us it parades fleeting implications of instinct vs. technology, innovation vs. corporate infiltration, the timeless and crucial necessity of understanding nature to withstand it, and Twister blue-balls us on those terms. Instead of following through with the subject matter it presents us with, it opts for hitting hollowly gratifying notes. More than anything, it plays upon the latent romantic prospects between Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt---two actors who are always good sports---who always seem to get distracted before those divorce papers can finally get signed. Their scenes of flirting, talking about how their marriage failed, the humiliating comic relief of his new psychiatrist fiancée completely floundering at adapting to the impulsive, aerobic nature of storm-chasing, are all tritely played for mawkishly sentimental audience reaction.Where it could've been like Contact on Earth, Twister turns out not to have much purpose other than using as many would-be commercial elements as possible. Mark Mancina's schmaltzy orchestral score makes various emotional moments redundant, and yet a soundtrack filled with modern pop, rock and metal blare constantly for no other reasons than to play up those hackneyed, overdrawn emotional elements and to classify the insatiable storm-chasers singing and rocking along as hip and fun-loving. Entire scenes are seemingly devoted to nothing other than their having a good time head-bobbing, fist-pumping and smirking at each other in between skillfully shot and edited tornado disasters. This makes all the computer-generated and hydraulic tornado spectacle feel as upbeat as it ever could, impressively eschewing the sense of true peril.This, in essence, is actually why I somewhat enjoy Twister even now as an adult. It is the closest movies come to actually functioning like roller-coasters. On a roller-coaster, everything is set up and paid off in a physically interactive way that indeed impressively eschews the sense of true peril. As well, people can take or leave roller-coasters depending on their attitude towards it. Some wait in lines for hours so that they can shout and flail their arms at the right time, and others feel sick. The attitude I've been speaking of all has to do with how much attention you pay to the mechanics of the whole thing. You think too much about the fallacy of human procedure and you want off, and on the other hand, if you trust what you're subjected to, allow yourself the thrill of all the wind in your face, you want to go again. "},{"Title":"Good Demo For CGI !","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" We all know that the disaster movie lived a golden age in the 1970s. Then with real disastrous experiences at the late 70s like (The Swarm - 1978), (The Concorde ... Airport '79 - 1979), and (When Time Ran Out - 1980) it was obvious that the heyday has had its day. As you know also that in less than 10 years the disaster movie came back again and galore. I think the reason why, aside from of the yearning, was the development of the special effects that hit a new peak with the birth of CGI.The first movie that began the revival was the 1988 super hit (Die Hard). With a threat for a building and all the people in it (a la' The Towering Inferno &#x96; 1974). True that it didn't rely on the CGI much, but definitely it got (Jan de Bont) as director of photography.It's clear that this man has a thing for the disaster movies. The first movie he directed was (Speed - 1994) another super hit with a bombed bus. And its sequel (Speed 2 Cruise Control - 1997) about a ship with calamity.In the acme of this other golden age you'd find in the same year of 1996 movies like (Executive Decision), (Daylight), (Mars Attacks !), and for sure (Independence Day). Compared to them or not (Twister) isn't a good disaster movie inasmuch as a good showreel for the recent special effects at the time ! The main problem in any disaster movie was always the drama. When it comes to (Twister) it's no exception. The case of 2 lovers that return to each other wasn't the best story to fill the in-betweens of this visual show, or to use this very show as a clever equivalent to any dramatic situation.It was total waste to watch a brilliant actress like (Helen Hunt) in the middle of weak story like this. Although the case of 2 different competing teams was thrilling but it ends earlier, and the big climactic sequence at the end, of being in the middle of the twister, was well directed but didn't serve any story well since the script didn't utilize it as enlightenment moment for anything or anyone to look eventually dazzling yet naive; almost like the whole movie.It got the same problem of contemporary movies like (Jumanji) one year ago where you feel that the CGI had been designed first then they looked for any story to fit that ! I know that a lot of viewers at the time came out of (Twister) talking and talking about the flying cow more than anything.. I think that's a shortcoming itself.Among the 1990s disaster movies (Twister) remains at the average section with ones like (Under Siege 2 - 1995), (Volcano - 1997), and (Dante's Peak - 1997) despite its good visual moments. "},{"Title":"Good Special Effects laden film","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this film for its amazing VFX when it was first released. However, recent technological advances in the Special Effects Department have meant the USP of this film no longer exists. Still, it's a fun ride and definitely watchable. The acting is average, though Philip Seymour Hoffman excels in a minor role. The plot is little more than an excuse to go tornado chasing. The final tornado scene remains impressive though (MINOR SPOILERS) my favorite scene includes a flying cow! There are some unnecessary jibes at big business that feel like padding.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"Oh Brother","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" How many people put their ideas into the mix when script time came? Early on we have the evil corporate scientists, well maybe not evil but greedy, from so many other films like E.T. or Starman. Admittedly in those efforts the bad guys came from government but you get the idea. Director deBont or someone came to their senses and for a long time they more or less disappear or become just another bunch of guys on the road, but someone in power put them back in to demonstrate the folly of big business sponsorship.Then Romancing the Stone and its concept of man and woman at each other's throats is dragged front and center, but this time with the added presence of the Grace Kelly figure from High Noon, who does not understand her man's obsession. This time she meekly bows out, smiling all the while. I did wonder how her cell phone worked so well as storm clouds flew about.Helen Hunt gets the Julia Roberts role, but while we usually root for Julie to get her man, here Helen is just plain obnoxious, but no wonder since she lived next door to Dorothy Jean as a child. Her daddy was swept away in that same tornado that took Dorothy to Oz.Bill Paxton has had one good film role in his life as the sheriff in One False Move.....what a piece of oatmeal he is, but his grin as he and Helen plunge the truck through the house that confronts them appears so many times on promo's at the beginning of videos and DVDs.The saving grace of the film was the storm scenes, and for this reason I give it a '5'. Unlike underwater scenes where it is hard to tell who is zapping whom, storms make all faces visible. The storms perform one more wonderful function they almost drown out the dialog so that Paxton and Hunt must shout. For me it brought back Richard Strauss rehearsing Salome and screaming to the orchestra, Play louder, I can still hear the Heink referring to the soprano.Of course, they manage to outrun a tornado without losing their breath. And of course, 'Auntie Em' has her house fall on her and comes away with nary a scratch. Only bad guys and cows are killed by these storms.Back in the early Seventies the disaster film was in vogue Towering Inferno, Airport etc etc. Then Steven Spielberg came along, took a perfect book and script and made a perfect suspense film about a force of nature. He is listed in the credits here. He should have known better. In his masterpiece, there were no subplots to clog the action, just a resort town, three men and a big fish. "}{"Title":"old story plot","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first thing I noticed when I saw this movie, was that the plot was a thinly guised remake of The Front Page and His Girl Friday. Watch either one and tell me Michael Crichton and his wife Anne-Marie Martin wrote a original story. It's immaterial that the lead characters are scientists - in the previous movies they were journalists (and the genders transposed between the two films). What makes the story is the dynamic between the almost divorced spouses - the desire for one spouse to get divorce papers signed by the other so they can remarry, and getting swept into the excitement of the moment, realizing in the end that their previous partner and not their betrothed is the one for them. "},{"Title":"I love the 90s","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yes, Twister isn't a particularly inspiring piece of film, at least not from the acting or plot perspectives, but I think that these kind of insanely expensive, insanely profitable action movies (Speed, Jurassic Park, etc.) are part of what made the 90s, well, the 90s. That hideous CG that was so cutting- edge at the time, the one-liners, Michael Crichton--it's all part of the spirit of the times and a great example of the decade's culture. So while watching it now is comical and a little embarrassing, I remember watching Twister as a kid and I absolutely loved it. (Of course, Tornado Alley was still in the mid-west. I think it's moved east since then, and it's not so awesome now.) "},{"Title":"twister sch-mister","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm giving this movie a 6 out of 10. I like weather but this movie was really unrealistic and stupid. Some parts were okay but i think all of the characters would all be dead by now!! I think its stupid how they play really loud music when they are chasing a tornado. Shouldn't they be paying more attention to the computers and things so they actually concentrate on what they are doing! And of course, there HAD TO BE a stupid love story in this. And its so convincing that there are like 5 tornadoes that they actually chase and locate from the one storm cell. The F5 tornado?! i understand trying to get those little sensor ball things in it, but all of a sudden...wait!...it dramatically changes course and it heading right for Jo and William!! (gasp!) they run through barns and they tie themselves up with a piece of LEATHER?! to a pole. If ANYBODY was caught in an F5 tornado they would be dead in a flash. I think that this tornado that is said to be a mile wide cannot just dissolve in a few seconds. And is it me, or does the tornado go through the drive in movie place, the aunts place and then by morning......ITS STILL THERE?!!!! a tornado cannot last that long! Stupid movie people know nothing about these sorts of things, i mean i am fascinated by tornadoes but when your making a movie, you have to be realistic so people can ENJOY the movie. And with the sister tornadoes in the water, if they were F3's that pretty truck would be off the ground in about 2 seconds! "},{"Title":"Plenty of awe,little real danger(Spoilers?)","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Actually,I was almost tempted to use as a subject line summary Tornadoes are Fun!! but I almost felt the irony would be lost.This film took what could've been a genuinely intriguing and lethal natural phenomenon movie and turned it into another cut-rate,summer blow-em-up blockbuster.The plot and characters are so secondary and throw-away that it's laughable when the screenwriter even attempts to infuse personality in them! Rival meteorologists(Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton)--who once were married(go figure!)--find themselves colliding with each other as they are in pursuit of a series of powerful tornadoes in rural Oklahoma. They have a shared enemy in another storm-chasing meteorologist(CAry Elwes),who conspires to steal their technology and take the credit. I'd go on with the story but it feels pointless. The characters are set-ups for the tornadoesbig,awesome funnel clouds that can move building,vehicle,beast and man at will! They are arguably the best thing of this offeringthey look and seem pretty potent.Which leads me to another criticism of this moviestrangely,a very deadly weather occurrence that's supposed to be menacing somehow manages to kill very few of the characters in the film. Let me sidetrack heremost films where there is a menace of some sort,but in this case we'll stick to nature,shows the audience through the course of the picture how lethal and intense it is by killing (or even just seriously harming) a good portion of the players involved. The Jaws movies,The Swarm,Earthquake,The Towering Inferno,The Poseidon Adventure, The Jurassic PArk movies,etc. These films HAD body counts and you,the audience members,felt the danger,panic and terror. Twister has almost none of this. Instead,it seems to be no less than one-third concerned with crazed,adrenaline-junkies who work for the National Weather Servicewho want to chase and(if at all possible)face-to-face with the most powerful of cyclones(an F6 being the ultimate). This had all the menace and seriousness as a Mountain Dew commercial! Being someone who lives in the part of the USA that's sometimes referred to as Tornado Alley,I can honestly say that most people,even the tornado chasers themselves,I doubt have this kind of surfer dude mentality of tracking twisters. And when the tornadoes finally do claim lives,it's only a select few characters that you the viewer either didn't care about or didn't like. It didn't even seem like most of the crews involved or the townsfolk in the line of the tornadoes suffered more than a few scratches or bruises. Lucky them!There's,of course,no shortness of chase scenes,and I'd tell more about them but I'd TRULY spoil the film. Suffice it to say,if you or I got as close to these funnels as the stars of this movie,I'd wager we'd probably not be so lucky. In summary,this film has good technical points,but I'm betting that nobody,not director Jan de Bont nor(it seems)Michael Crichton has actually BEEN THROUGH actual tornadoes. If they had,I feel this movie might've lived up to its potential as a serious natural disaster movie,and not a silly actioner made for summer audiences. "},{"Title":"One of the best films from the 90's.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In the 1990's you had great films like The silence of the lambs, Bram stoker's Dracula, then in 1996 came a great film in Twister. Great special effects, great casting, and most of all a great plot in the film. seeing the movie in the theatre was so cool. Now owning it on DVD is just like being in the theatre watching it again. Totally a great movie. I give it 10 big stars. "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE, HORRIBLE, HORRIBLE","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Soon-to-be ex-husband and wife stormchasers Paxton and Hunt must test their tornado-studying equipment before evil corporate chaser Elwes does. Moronic movie boasts some of the worst dialogue written in recent memory, rivaled only by its complete and total lack of logic.  CGI-created tornadoes are never realistic enough to be frightening, therefore no suspense or tension is created.  Funny, too, how conveniently the protagonists manage to repeatedly encounter them and yet escape unscathed.  A pitiful waste of talent and time.   "},{"Title":"Mindless summer action flick. Good stuff!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   If you could take out the actors and dialogue, this movie would be phenomenal. The special effects in this movie put any other Hollywood blockbusters of its time (except Jurassic Park) to shame. The full length of this movie will have you staring in slack-jawed wonder as massive tornadoes wreak havoc on rural landscapes. Until the characters and plot come into the picture, anyway. Twister seems to be indecisive about whether it wants to tell a love story or an action tale. I'm serious, nearly 75% of the conversation is spent building up to an extremely predictable romance. The friendly banter and witty repartee seems forced and quickly becomes tiresome and irritating. A lot of the supposed dramatic surprises in the story manage to evoke only a chuckle and a shake of the head. The dialogue itself is pretty awful. Writers Michael Crichton and Anne-Marie Martin apparently think their audience consists of utter fools. How else can you justify technicians explaining simple readouts to each other? That green blob is a tornado. The smaller ones suggest it's splitting up. Really? You mean they didn't teach that to them in college? All complaining aside, the amazing and numerous action sequences are well worth slogging through the boring storyline. Definitely worth checking out. "},{"Title":"A Graphics Extravaganza","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to 1996 and Hollywood with all its latest in graphics. Twister is a movie worth its weight in high speed winds as we follow the trials of a group of Storm Chasers. The premise of the feature is, to find out what goes on inside the Tornado. The United States being the only place in the world that has more Tornado's than anywhere else. The situations they get themselves into, keeps you rivited to your seat. The music score tells you of the anticipated coming of the finger of God,The most destructive tornado there is. The realism of the destruction of tornado's is captured in Twister. Great acting jobs by Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Jami Gertz. For those of you who don't live in or near Tornado alley, and have never seen one in action, then this your ticket to the big one. Via a graphics extravaganza. I managed to catch 2 bloopers which did not affect the film at all. So sit back, strap yourself down and hang on for a great ride. "},{"Title":"Plot gets 'blown away' in this otherwise edge-of-your-seat flick!","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  So it's probably the best movie ever made about killer tornadoes!  The point is, however, that the plot of this movie sort of gets carried off of the script as Hunt's character and Paxton's character have more scenes together.  The special effects and suspense of this movie hold it together to keep the viewers interested and in their seats.  However, if you're a movie buff and look for a concrete plot...skip this one. "},{"Title":"8/10 twister is a movie about effect swirling out of control","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  i would have gave this film a 10/10 if it weren't for the stupidest most far fetched scene i have ever seem in the history of cinema! You know the scene where the fully loaded, three section, 50ft long oil tanker becomes airborne and flys over the storm chasers little suv! I must say i was believing the storyline up till this scene. maybe the movie just wasnt scary enough maybe they should of had the staute of liberty and world trade centre fly over thier little suv as well! the film should be used as circulum in film school as an example of effects gone out of control! neverless despite the one fault that seems to irritate me so the movie is quite good. "}{"Title":"I think this is a good movie with great special effects.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I always love everything Helen Hunt does. She is a good actress. I love the special effects in this film. My favorite line is There goes another cow. The reply. I think that is the same one. But there is one actress in the film that  did not give a good performance. She is Jami Gertz. She can be a good actress in time. But the real star of the show is the special effects. "},{"Title":"It's weird, after seeing this 100 times...it gets better","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I worked in an electronics store when this movie came out, so it was a good one to run constantly on the big TV's and home theatre systems. So, in total, I probably saw it 100 times or more. Yes, this movie deserves the rating it has on IMDb, but strangely it gets better after you've seen it about 100 times. I don't know why, but there's an unexplainable attraction to it...hmmmmm. I know it's not the acting, I can tell you that much.Seriously, for mindless fun with decent effects and a vice to wake up the neighbors with the subwoofer, check it out. It's about on par with Independence Day. "},{"Title":"The best film since Congo... not to be outdone (until Volcano)","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was sure this movie was destined to be forgotten.  It is a classic cookie-cutter film, as trite and cheesey as a film can be, and I was pretty sure it would flop.   I was wrong.  With the power of WB behind it, Twister made it to the top-25 grossing films of all-time in the US.  That is the ultimate testament to the power of corporate media.  Somebody at WB is saying, Oops, we messed up.  We're supposed to be more sneaky about taking over the world.  Nobody would believe that Twister could go this far without some serious public manipulation. "},{"Title":"Action","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Action filled, but great all the same! This had some of my favorite actors/actresses in it. Bill Paxton, Helen Hunt. Excellent Casting, and beautiful special effects.A must see for anyone who loves storms. "},{"Title":"A fun movie!  (but flawed . . . )","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As a science teacher (and a long-time sci-fi fan), my only complaint with this film is that the action-packed story takes some serious liberties with the well-established facts about tornadoes.I'm not trying to nit-pic meteorological data here.  We've all seen the amazing tornado videos on TLC and the Discovery channel.  The  problem is, the expensive special effects in this enjoyable-but-flawed film don't hold a candle to the real thing. And anyone who knows anything about tornadoes will cringe at the inaccuracies in the way this film portrays the force of a tornado. In one scene, the characters sit in Bill Paxton's truck and watch cows and other debris cruise by --- but the truck doesn't do anything by spin around a few times!  In another scene, Helen and Bill grip a wooden bridge support while a tornado sucks up a truck and a tractor which are just three feet away!Watch the real tornado videos and you'll see experienced storm chasers who are afraid to go within a mile of a little F-1 tornado (not to mention F-2 or higher).  If they DO find themselves closer than a mile, the debris zooming around them would frighten any sane person.Okay, so am I saying that `Twister' is a worthless movie?  Abosutely not! In fact, far from it.  I love the movie. I'm just warning you that you'll have to forgive some serious flaws to enjoy this fun-but-CHARACTER-DRIVEN story.If you want REAL tornadoes -- find a tape of `Twister Terror of the Plains'. It's 100% pure tornado videos.  You'll be amazed! However, a word of warning -- you'll also be a bit discouraged by the fact that this amazing video states that an equipment package called `Toto' (the real-life version of `Twister's' equipment package called `Dorothy') was tested repeatedly -- but unsuccessfully -- for several years.Sadly, `Toto' proved to be absolutely unworkable in the real world of tornado research.  Today, `Toto' is stored in a museum.   Oh well . . .  "},{"Title":"I'll get you, my pretty! And your little dog too!","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Energetic actioner unhampered by any plot whatsoever (increasingly less surprising in Crichton's work). Effects are top-notch and the cast of largely-unknowns has a fine silly time chasing twisters across Oklahoma and merrily chewing the scenery in the process. Bill Paxton is fun, as he has been ever since stealing scenes in Aliens, but seems less comfortable with a leading-man position than he is with a supporting role. If slam-bang action is your bag, this is the flick for you! But if you prefer byzantine plotting and meaningful dialogue, move along, move along. Nothing to see here, citizens. "},{"Title":"one-dimensional disaster flick","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Occasionally adrenaline-pumping disaster flick works as eye candy but falls short on human drama. A group of daring storm chasers&#x97;led by a soon-to-be divorced couple&#x97;set out on a dangerous mission across the desolate plains of Oklahoma to try and put a one of a kind, high-tech gimmick right into the heart of a tornado during an unprecedented barrage of storms. The special effects are beyond impressive and literally blow you away, but the characters are paper thin, the performances uninspired, and the dialogue extremely banal. Not bad per se, just one of those films where most of the enjoyment comes from viewing it on the big screen. **½ "},{"Title":"Impressive milestone in 20th century cinema","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Gone are the days of The Wizard of Oz stealing the spotlight as *THE* film highlighting the impact of Tornados in our society.  Helen Hunt and a phenomenal storyline will literally blow away any memory you have of that old picture.  Not only is Twister a film with Hollywood's hottest star, Helen Hunt, it also contains a thrilling edge-of-your-seat ride through a plot filled with more twists and turns than a ride through a town with a lot of turns in it.  Not only that, the writers managed to create a film which could easily be modified into a National Geographic special due to its strict adherence to solid science yet it manages to do so without becoming cliché.  Trust me, you haven't seen a disaster film of this caliber since Deadly Swarm Killer Bees.How packed full of entertainment and science can one film be?  First off, you have an amazing romance between Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton.  What makes this romance so unexpected is that he arrives on the scene with his new fiance.  Why on earth would you expect a romance between the lead male and female characters when one is clearly hitched?  As soon as you see the interactions between Bill, Melissa (Jami Gertz), and Jo you'll get it. You'll immediately realize that Melissa is all wrong for Bill and that Jo is actually the one who is the perfect match.  You'll soon scream from the edge of your seat that Melissa Reeves is all wrong for Bill and that Jo is his true soul mate, but due to the thrilling tornado hunting adventure one would think that there's just no room for romance, but fortunately one would be wrong.  Completely out of the blue, Bill comes to his senses and realizes that Jo is the woman for him and he chucks Melissa out in the middle of Oklahoma.But is Melissa sad?  No, she's wise enough to see that her only purpose of being in the movie was to ask the questions that we the audience need answered about the hard-core science of tornado hunting.  She, like the audience, finally realizes that Bill and Jo are meant to be together and as an empowered woman, she has more important things to do than whine about some man who's stupid enough to get sick in a space capsule, yet she made a big sacrifice for us the viewers, and you better appreciate it.Unfortunately, poor Bill and Jo have more than a spare wheel to interfere with their budding romance The Tornado Villains!  Driving in their black minivans with their cutting edge technology, these nefarious scientists are corporate whores to the Extreme.  Armed with their own tornado studying device, shamelessly duplicated from the plans Bill and Jo developed, these miserable excuses for human beings have no soul while Bill and Jo may have meager technology, their love of science and ability to speak directly to the Earth ensures their victory over the scum that was probably funded by C. Montgomery Burns himself.Kids should see this film mainly to learn how to handle themselves in a tornado.  First off, we should all drive Dodge pickups due to their regenerative properties, Chrysler foolishly fails to advertise the vehicle's ability to fix a broken axle and windshield on the fly in their commercials. (Personally, I would see a vehicle's ability to repair itself as a big selling point but those were the days before 0% financing)  The only damage this vehicle will succumb to is the full brute force of an F-5 tornado or a nail.Kids will also learn that tornados have been stereotyped as destructive machines as we now see that a tornado will only affect with wind speed in the cone.  Outside of the tornado the wind is nice and calm giving budding Wind Speakers of the midwest the chance to get close and personal with a tornado.  And their internal winds certainly aren't fast enough to propel dust and dirt fast enough to act like a sandblaster on human flesh.We also learn to avoid bovines when tornados are present, unlike their swine counterparts, bovines CAN fly and appear to do so whenever a tornado is present.  While their flight appears slow and peaceful, children of the farming-centric Tornado Alley know very well that cows have chronic diarrhea and due to the erratic flight paths of flying cows it might be difficult to avoid a bout.I highly recommend buying Twister for your own home collection, in fact buy several copies for every DVD or VHS player you own.  You need to be prepared!  My vote 3 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Lighten Up People!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I, personally, Think people take this movie to seriously. It's called Fiction! it's purpose is not to be worthy of a PBS nature show! that being said, here's a more detiald look on what I thought of itThis movie is nearly five years old, and it's effects are still worthy of todays standard, and that says a lot. They were just about as good as they get.Also, The acting in it is good. Some of it was a little weak, but for the most part, it was very good. Helen Hunt was as always superb as ever, and I think this was her best movie. She by far lead the rest of the cast, though they were good to.The plot, well what can be said about it? I'll say it was pretty down right stupid. But what the writers did with the lame plot was good. The characters were given much personallity and were very colorful. All that is except for Melissa Reeves (Jami Gertz). Geez, she was blonder than blonds are! but that was over easily over looked, and actually added humor to the story.The action was very good also. Very tense at various times.So what are we left with? Definitly the best natural disaster movie of all time. They did as much as they could of with the plot and is deffinatly completlty filled with action, special effects and character building. Just a great movie. Better than Volcano, Vertical Limit, Volcano, etc. Just the best in it's class. But the unbelivablitly of it dropes it down some, so I over all gave it a 7/10. See it! "},{"Title":"Brilliant, mind blowing stuff","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I loved TWISTER the film the first time i saw it. The special effects are so real and out of this world at the same time. I knew straight away this was going to be a very special film and one of my favourites. I like the film so much i went on the TWISTER ride at Universal Studios in Florida, the ride is exciting and continues to furthur your interest in the film or spark off an interest to see it. I received the film as a present this xmas and plan to show my friends it and watch it alot! I think the way they portrayed the TWISTERS was amazing and shows them as being beautiful yet destructive just like real life! I hope other people view this film in a similar way! Luv $andz27   "}{"Title":"don't be fooled","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When this was in theaters I heard everyone talk about how great this was. Unfortunately, I had to wait until it came to video to see it. I can honestly say that it was hard to sit through this film. The characters are paper-thin, and the dialogue is some of the worst ever. The tornado effects are terrific but that is still not enough to overcome the lulls. I never realized how much impact a movie loses when it comes to video. The Perfect Storm suffered on video just like this film. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Nice effects","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film should have been a B movie.The special effects were quite obviously where the scriptwriters salary went and the best boy was given an extra duty.This film is not completely un-watchable, however.  Due to the special effects I would be tempted to brainlessly vedge in front of the telly to this mindless film.  "},{"Title":"Dont question it just enjoy","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Question-Why do you go to a movie that you know is 99% special effects? Answer-not for the plot.Question-if you go a see a movie that you know is 99% special effects and look for a plot why do you complain? Answer-because some people have to bitch about everything.Question-if you go to see the one of the best special effects movies of all time (Twister) why worry about the plot? Answer-because some people may have mistakenly thought Twister was written by Shakespeare and starred Sir Laurence Olivier.The reason for the above questions is that Twister is one of the 2 or 3 best special effects movie of all time,it is not art it is good fun,yes there are problems with the plot but who cares it is a great wild ride movie filled with twists and turns. Dont question it just enjoy it. 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Worth a look, but don't expect to be blown away.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Being a young severe weather enthusiast, I've waited for a while to be able to see a big-budget tornado movie.  But TWISTER didn't really meet my expectations.  How did the actors manage to look so cool?  Most real-life tornadic situations DO NOT leave your hair style untouched.  Perhaps they should have looked a little more...wind-swept! Also, would people who are in a situation that dangerous really be bickering over their divorce papers? I wouldn't, I'd be concentrating on NOT getting killed!Don't get me wrong, this is NOT a terrible movie.  It's fine - if you don't know more than the basics of the subject.  From a purely dramatic point of view it is a good film and worth a look, but there are probably better tornado movies out there somewhere.  "},{"Title":"Plot sucked, but action was good.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In a movie like this, you kind of try to accept the stupidity of the plot as long as the action and special effects are good.  In this one, the special effects are really pretty good, but this plot it just so lousy that it brings down the entire movie.  I was even unimpressed by the acting.  Helen Hunt is one of my favorite actresses.  But, her character was just so flat.  Maybe it was just the script. This movie is probably worth a watch if comes on one of the networks, but not worth spending the money to rent.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great special effects, but in the end tiring.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister probably has some of the best special effects ever from a movie I didn't like. The fact is Twister's lack of plot, uninteresting characters outside Helen Hunt which has a few moments, and tiring scene after scene of tornados just outweigh that. The tornado scenes get tiring because once you've seen the first one you've seen the rest. The F5 tornado at the end doesn't look much more powerful than the first tornado, an F2 tornado that was able to destroy a barn in 2 seconds. The tornados aren't believable either, since when were tornados able to follow humans, in one instance it actually sets an obsticle course,  and purposly drop on them on them for a while, but not leave any significant cut or anything on the humans. One scene I did like was in the drive in theater which was a little more entertaining, but you have to sit though the rest which isn't effective. This movie should have took a bite out of the movie Jaws, not show a tornado for a while and have a couple tornado scenes that would have been more suspenseful and effective. I give Twister a 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"OK effects, dismal movie","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The plot of this film, what little there is of it, consists of a group ofgood weathermen, including Hunt and Paxton, chasing tornadoesaround the midwest, attempting to place a weather instrumentdirectly in the path of one of them.  In this they are competing with agroup of evil weathermen, who will stop at nothing to foil them andbe the first to place their instrument instead.But wait, you say.  What if I were to forget which were the goodand which the evil weathermen?  Fear not, for the filmmakersthought of this the good weathermen travel in a ramshacklecaravan of trucks and campers while the evil weathermen havematching shiny black minivans, driven at a high rate of speed threefeet off each others' bumpers.  I still became confused when thevehicles weren't in the scene, however, and wished the evilweathermen had sported handlebar mustaches they could havetwisted from time to time so I could have followed things moreeasily. "},{"Title":"Love in the time of hollera","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yelling, screaming, fretting, sweating, and the film was good too. Technical issues aside, to get the full measure of all the storms in this film one must yield to the force that metaphor wields within and throughout the plot. The largest most powerful tornado, in the film, is the female lead, Jo Harding, played by Helen Hunt. She is a true F-10 capable of pulling another tornado, her estranged husband an F-8 himself, back to her from many miles away. Her husband, Bill Harding, played by Bill Paxton, has an intuitive relationship with storms, and if he isn't out chasing them, then he's off creating them in his personal life. Joe also has an intuitive relationship with storms, the storms that rage inside her husband. It is quite evident that storms are chasing storms, and we are left without visions of tornadoes until the two are safely back together working, carefully and gingerly monitoring the force of their love. This inspired aspect of the plot, also creates a triangle which in a sense is the same shape as that of a tornado viewed in two dimensions.Each Tornado is preceded and followed by equally turbulent developments in the relationship between the two, and growing clarity of the real distance and lack of true intimacy between Bill and the other woman. The film contains the best cinematic use of double entendre that I have had the pleasure of seeing. It is no accident that the dialog is chock-full of descriptive phrases and expressions that apply equally to both the storms and the relationship between the spouses, and the other woman (for the duration of her tenure in the film). As carefully crafted as the dialog is, in the hands of this fine troupe of actors, it remains consistently spontaneous and witty from the beginning to the end.Consistency is the mark of a great film, and the use of metaphor extends to include the supporting cast who are tossed and pushed around coldly by both Hardings equally like debris in the wind. The end of the film leaves the fate of the supporting cast a complete mystery, again, much like the whereabouts of artifacts in the debris after a tornado has passed.Fans of love stories (fans of all ages) who have not seen the film should definitely see this film. It withstands repeated viewing and would make a fine addition to any film library.  "},{"Title":"Sweet!","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a sweet and exciting one.  I had a dream of becoming a meteorologist and storm chaser (those plans have changed to being a DJ, but there's still that longing feeling for a storm chaser) before I saw this movie and when I saw it, it was awesome!  Sure, it wasn't really realistic in some parts and there wasn't a plot, but who gives a darn?  The movie was exciting enough.  Phillip Seymour Hoffman is like Jeff Goldblum in Jurassic Park, which means that he was hilarious, especially when he acted psycho around Bill's girlfriend.  Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton were good, but I wish they'd put someone in place of Cary Elwes. Even though I've only seen him in two movies (this one and The Chase), just watching this movie made me experience his annoying voice.  I know it's wrong for me to say it because he can't help it, but just ,uhh.  Overall, an awesome movie!  I get excited everytime I watch it.  A good movie for storm lovers. "},{"Title":"Brainless","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the worst experiences that I had in watching a film in the cinema was almost throwing up while seeing this movie.  The storm sequences were very annoying to watch.  Twister(1996) is about as entertaining and exciting as a trip to a whale watch here in Boston.  Its one of the worst films to come out in the year of 1996.Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton are wasted in their roles as a husband and team team of scientist.  Twister(1996) rips off some of the basic plot elements of The Abyss(1989) which is a much better movie.  The director, Jan De Bont has shown with this and a few other films that he is a Hollywood hired hand and nothing more.  Twister(1996) is like a well dressed human being who is unable to emote or think. "}{"Title":"A big fun action ride!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is - what I think - a perfect example of Hollywood entertainment. It has no message whatsoever, but brings just fun. Tons of it. It was only when I walked out of the theater (almost 5 years ago) that I realized there was almost no story, but that didn't matter, because I wasn't looking for one during the film. The story (Bill and Jo chasing a tornado) is just an excuse for bringing great action and superb CGI to the public (us). Don't look for any deeper meanings, but just enjoy the ride!8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Still magical in 2001","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've read all of the latest garbage about Twister and I must say that I'm quite surprised.  I don't know how anyone could watch this amazing film & come away with anything but awe.  Pure & simple, after 5 years and watching the film at least a thousand times, I still  look forward to seeing it again with much anticipation.  This film is  filled from beginning to end with the most amazing effects I have  ever seen.  It truly keeps you on the edge of your seat, which is where any good film should put you.  The acting wasn't Oscar level.  It wasn't supposed to be.  It was however, extremely believable, which is exactly what this film calls for.  Bad plot?  I  think not.  The plot in this case only had to move you from place to  place in the film, as a vehicle, which it did.  The cast was great.   They all did precisely what was needed to produce the magic that  was throughout this film.  My only sorrow is that the sequel never  happened.  I would have loved to see a sequel with the same cast,  same director, & the same technical crew.  I missed it on the big screen the first time but I would not miss the sequel. Whoever said that the score was bad had rocks in their ears.  The  music was absolutely fantastic.  It was so beautiful it made you  want to hear it over and over again, and that's coming from a sound technician and a musician's viewpoint.  This film did exactly what it was supposed to do, hands down. "},{"Title":"Boring movie","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister has really made me experience levels of boredom that I never knew existed. I mean, it tries so, so hard, but it really, really fails.Bill Paxton is an okay actor, but Helen Hunt is an embarrassment, how on earth did she ever win an Oscar (thankfully she didn't win it for the performance in Twister, though)? Replace her with Leelee Sobieski&#133; at least they look the same. Philip Seymour Hoffman is also in it, and that is one thing that makes the movie at least bearable to sit through, but mainly this film is a big bore.And what's going on with the score? Some pieces would suit a sappy comedy better than this action film, other pieces would suit a military court room drama. The score is really misguided.Anyway, Hoffman + great special/visual effects = 3/10. "},{"Title":"One intense ride","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I was 10 years old. It left me awestruck and wanting more, to me it was the greatest thing. I hadn't seen it since it came out almost, but tonight it was on a TV special and I got to relive the journey once again. I remembered why I had loved it so much.Let me just say this first- the effects are amazing...stunning. To try to recreate something from mother nature, something real, something that the audience has seen- and to pull it off almost perfectly, well that takes a lot of money, time and talent..all of which was put into this movie.The story is beautiful. It takes us inside the life of these Storm Chasers, to them tornadoes are their lives. The script gives us plenty of opportunities to see the storms, in which time you began to really see how they move- almost balletic, beautiful-but destructive Godly creations.The plot take us to another level. The basic idea is that these scientists have invented a machine that is programed to release hundreds of sensors once inside a tornado. These sensors pick up all sorts of readings about the core of the tornado and send them back to the scientists. The information gathered from them will help when forecasting tornadoes, to give people more time to get themselves and their families to safety. The only thing the storm chaser scientists have to do now is get their machine right in the path of the tornado. There is also a subplot which most of us can appreciate. Two of the chasers are on the verge of divorce and this event brings them back together for one last time, just like the storms their actions are unpredictable.The acting is also pulled off very nicely. Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt convey their characters well. The other actors are also great and we get the feeling that this group is all one big crazy but happy family. My personal favorite was the goofy sidekick like chaser Dusty.~Jessica  "},{"Title":"Great movie all around.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Back in 1996 I saw tons of commercials for this movie. It looked soooo great. I had to see it. I saw it a couples days after opening day and i left the theater completely satisfied. This movie was totally awesome! It rox. The effects are excellent and I loved this movie. It scared the crap out of me at some parts because of the realism. Everytime a tornado touched down I got butterflies in my stomach and my heart beat a mile a minute.I bought this movie right away when it came out on tape. I watched it all the time. Soon enough I forgot about the movie. I fell in love with other movies. But last night I was at Best Buy and I saw Twister on the DVD shelf. I remembered how much I loved the movie and bought it. YOU NEED TO SEE IT ON DVD FOR THE FULL EFFECT!!! The acting in this movie is excellent. All you skeptics out there think the plot is unoriginal. Well just ask yourself one question Have you ever seen a movie about a bunch of storm chasers who try to get a high tech piece of equipment into a bunch of tornadoes in a a24 hour timespan? I DONT THINK SO! The movie doesn't need a plot. It needs to thrill you and leave you amazed. It does both of those wonderfully. This movie was awesome. )  "},{"Title":"I loved it- Brad Jackson, get a life (Feb. 25, 2000)","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie was really good. I watched it again for the fifth time with my kids last night. I don't believe Brad and his wife understood, this is a action movie, MOVIE, not real life and it was HELEN HUNT, NOT HOLLY HUNTER in the movie. So did you really watch, or understand the movie, because you sure don't know who was in it. Some of it is based on real life, but then again this is hollywood who are out to entertain people. I think it is better than some of the movies hollywood is putting out these days. There was a little swearing, but no nudity, sex, or gore to it. I hope they do come out with  a sequel to it. It had great actors, music, and the special effects were awesome. I think all the actors in it were great and the director and producer did a great job. So there wasn't much of a plot, but then again the movie was about Twisters, not a love story or war movie or even a horror movie. For all those who need a plot to watch a movie, stay away from action type movies. Most of them don't. But the special effects are good.  "},{"Title":"Wonderfull film","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well...I just finished reading all of the comments on this film and have to disagree with some of you...STRONGLY!! This is a great film and as far as the plot. It has a nice plot that is very easy to follow. Just because it isnt deep and full of tear jerking acting dosnt mean it has no plot!! It is an ACTION film. It isnt suppose to be any deeper than any other action film!! The star of this film is the Twisters hence the name of the film...TWISTER!!! You dont go to this movie to see Helen Hunt or Bill Paxton. You go to see the special effects!!! Now that said....The special effects are very very good but more impressive is the sound effects!! I love the growling of the tornadoes as if they are alive and about to eat you!! It adds more excitement than just having loud wind!! Very good move to add the sounds!! Listen to this movie loud and on surround sound and you will be left in a daze afterwords!! This movie is a thrill ride and that is what I expect from action films and it delivers. I will say that Jaime Gertz does have the most interesting role in the film and has the best lines. She manages to make me laugh at her terror thoughout the movie. So in summary this movie is great entertainment and I am praying that they are going to make a sequel....if anyone knows about a sequel then let me know please!! OH and I have studied storms for over 10 years and there is alot of factual influence in this film. There really is a device such as Dorothy that is dropped into the path of tornadoes in the same maner. They obviously did consult with people from the Tornado Project for the making of this film. The Tornado Project if you are interested puts out some of the best documentation of Twisters I have ever seen and I have seen them all!!! "},{"Title":"Oh dear.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Comments on Twister 1996Since many others have described the poverty of quality in this film in such graphic detail and thus most of the content, I can dispense with too much plot (whatever that word means in connection with this film) and discuss my reactions to the film instead.Managing to avoid all hype or reviews of the film, although I had seen commercials for the video on tv. A friend of mine bought the tape and dropped it round thinking I might like it, since I have always been interested in tornadoes and storms. After 5 or 10 minutes of Twister, my wife and I turned to each other and tried to decide whether to go on watching it. We pressed on, ever the determined critics, and struggled valiantly to watch to the end. When we finally reached the end credits, Lisa (my wife) turned to me and said We will never again be able to get those 2 hours of our lives back. Those 2 hours are gone forever. Lost. Absolutely right.I concede the point about the special effects, yet I must confess I have never heard of tornadoes growling and sounding like animals. If you get chance, check out the tornado scenes and listen for the tell tale groans and growls. Many people have said that the world seems to go mad around tornadoes, but are strangely silent on the subject of sounding a bit like big scary animals.The comment from the person in Manchester, NH, describes my main gripes and thoughts, so I can leave most of that out since anyone reading this will have read that first. But really, how dire can a film get? The Dorothys for example. Notice the bad guys had a slightly different version of the Same Thing? But *ours* is better cos we're just low paid amateurs who do it for the love of the thing. *They* have the technology but *we* have the guy who can errm sense them. *We're* a band of characters, all funny and sensitive, *they* are cold, humourless uniforms. Can you work out who you are supposed to route for? *They* are paid loads of cash by a semi-scary organisation while *we* do it for sensitive personal reasons.The award for the Most Stupid Behaviour In A Crap Film goes to (gasp) Holly Hunter for the scene under the wooden bridge where she suddenly decides to undo her bindings and go out for a look. I have to see it! Classic. Mind you, the picking up the scrap metal pieces out of the failed Dorothy came a close second.I must admit, I thought the Wahoo! Yoohoo chanting long haired guy was marked for death in the first few minutes after he started getting a bit too likeable. I could almost see the arrow pointing at him saying Enjoy him now, the decapitation in minute 23 is the end of him... but it never came. One point to Twister for being unexpected.As I say, I experienced none of the hype, and merely saw a tv commercial for the video. I came into Twister thinking it might be a film about tornadoes and got a few interesting looking storms held together with shaky sub plots that border on surrealism in their crassness.My advice to others who might be considering Twister in the same way I did is this. Go to Discovery channel and search through their listings. You might find mention of a programme called Storm Chasers of Tornado Alley. Watch this and imagine what Twister might have been like in a perfect world. This show is everything Twister could never hope to be true, interesting, exciting, credible, funny, entertaining and informative. In fact, had the producers of Storm Chasers hooked up with the special effects team from Twister, we could have had a real goer.Finally, if you *do* watch it, rememberYou can never get those two hours back. "},{"Title":"Spectacular eye-candy...and little else to offer","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  WOW! was all I could think the first time I was in the theater, being awed by the special effects on the big screen. I might again if I saw it in the theater. But once I watched the movie on my television, the awe wore off and all that remained was the oh so poor plot.Quite frankly, all I did when I saw it on my television was attempt to count how many times everyone should have been dead. I lost count. Aside from this small point, the rest of the movie is predictable and lacking.Helen Hunt turns in the best performance of the movie, but even she can not help the floundering story. I will admit that I still watch the movie, but now it is more for a laugh than anything else. Worth seeing once, but not much more unless you somehow have access to a theater. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is... A special effects showcase.","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Tornado enthusiasts like myself were drooling over this film when news of its development leaked.  Of course, I prepared myself to be let down.  I expected nothing more than awesome effects with this film.  As I expected, this proved to be the only really redeeming quality of the film. The tornadoes (the main stars of the film) were INCREDIBLE!  I can imagine people who have suffered through these disasters would have had nightmares if they saw this film (I sincerely hope they didn't)!  They were hauntingly realistic (just like the ones I've viewed in books and Weather Channel specials)!  And, yes, they *can* get as big as the last F-5 in the film! Uh, I know, I'm kinda getting off the subject of film here.  Honestly, there wasn't much else to this film.  The plot was pretty poorly conceived (a romance placed on the backdrop of storm chasing on the Oklahoma plains?!?!), the characters weren't too well developed, the acting was somewhat convincing (but nothing award worthy), there were quite a few goofs (see IMDB's Goofs section to see what I mean), and this was clearly created to showcase ILM's talents with computer effects.  Oh well, take it for what it is, folks... A mindless special effects showcase. "}{"Title":"Very good action/thriller with amazing f/x.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was a really good movie that was a little underrated. The f/x blew me sky high. This is one of those movies where hype takes over. If your like me than you should like it because I'm a sucker for hype. If you always want poetry, go see Titanic. The plot is lacking. That happens to all of Jan de Bont's movies except for Speed. His movies just get worse but this was an adrenalin rush of a movie. The plot has a team chasing tornados through the country side. The action stops but pumps back up with extreme tension. It's just a cool thrill ride. The acting was good. Helen Hunt made a good shift from TV to movies. Bill Paxton was great, of course. I really don't see why some people complained. It was a good movie if your into this sort of thing. Were they expecting a Academy Award winning script or something? It's a summer blockbuster. What more should you expect? If you like 'em big, See this. Twister A- "},{"Title":"It just makes me want to join in the chase!","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  My overall view is this movie is the story of a woman obsessed with tornadoes after a family tragedy struck 20 years before. (You would have to experience one to know) I think one factor that makes the movie such a thrill is that these storms seemed so real (according to a reliable source). Another think I liked was the chasers youthful attitudes.  Generation X could really get into it.  Steak and Eggs was a good addition because it is real Southern.  What I didn't find quite right, is some people had Southern accents while others didn't. Other things included the jiggling of the camper shell back and fourth, them driving through the explosion, though I'm glad they survived.  I don't think anyone could survive that. A couple of movie critics mentioned it didn't have a story.  The story may not come out as it does in other motion pictures, but there is one. It's just kind of hidden. "},{"Title":"Special Effects Cannot Carry a Film","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A simple adage among directors goes something like this Great special effects with a bad story cannot carry a film.  Mediocre special effects with a great story does carry a film.  I wonder why Director of Photography turned Director Jan de Bont didn't heed his peers words with his film Twister.Twister is the tale of a group of twenty and thirty something people who chase tornados through the American midwest for a combination of research and the thrill of danger.  Who are these people?  We are left wanting to know because Jan de Bont and screenwriters Michael Crichton and Anne-Marie Martin never develop the characters past the cardboard stage.  They are not characters, they are caricatures.  By the end of the film, I could care less if any of them were sucked up into a tornado.Helen Hunt plays Jo Harding, the estranged wife of Bill Paxton's Bill Harding.  The pair, along with a small following of Twister Chasers, used to brave nature for research and the thrill.  But along the way, their marriage suffered.  They should have paid more attention to thier relationship.  Now, Bill meets Jo out in the field with his next wife in tow, Dr. Melissa Reeves (Jami Gertz in a thankless role. Her only reason for existence is to act in horror at the twisters and be the butt of jokes thrown at her by Jo Harding), to get Jo's signature on the final divorce papers.  The film telegraphs every move well in advance, as we know from the start Dr. Reeves is way out of her element and does not belong in Bill's world.  We know from the start Bill and Jo should be together.  Cliche.For a protagonist, we are given Dr. Jonas Miller (Cary Elwes, in the films second thankless role), Jo and Bill's long time adversary in the hunt for twister research.  He has the edge because his equipment is more sophisticated than Jo and Bill's.  See, he has corporate funding.  We are unsure where the funding comes from for Jo and Bill's research.  Maybe they won the lottery.  Maybe they are independently wealthy.  Maybe the screenwriters didn't think that was an important detail (it could have lead to *gasp* depth!).  Interestingly, after seeing Twister in the theater, I felt as if there were gaps in Dr. Miller's character, as if there should have been more of him.  It seemed as if his character was even more underdeveloped than the rest (as impossible as that sounds).  Later I learned that Actor Cary Elwes and Director Jan de Bont had a major falling out during the filming of Twister and Jan de Bont got his revenge by leaving most of Cary Elwes footage on the editing room floor.  He left only what was absolutely necessary for the film.Helen Hunt and Cary Elwes, two fine actors, do the their best with what they've been given.  However, Bill Paxton is as uncharismatic and wooden as usual.  He would repeat this in Titanic, easily the worst performance of that film.  Bill Paxton has yet to demonstrate any range or depth with his acting.     An annoying feature of Twister is the pseudo-hip attitude of the Jo and Bill twister team.  There is a scene in which they are seated around a dinner table conversing in their hip techno-science jargon.  They seemed like a generation stuck between us Baby Boomers and the Gen-X'ers, trying to be cool, trying to fit in.  They came off like geeks.There is no doubt Twister has great special effects.  The action and pacing are excellent.  But there is nothing in between holding the film together.  Jan de Bont showed great promise in 1994 with his directorial debut, Speed.  But between Twister, Speed 2 and The Haunting, he might find himself directing photography again.                                         "},{"Title":"Empty-headed","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that seems OK and fun while you're watching it, but falls apart afterwards when subjected to logical consideration.  The whole action hinges on one unlikely coincidence after another; I lost count of how many times the characters forgot to turn off the radios in their vehicles, so that their personal conversations were overheard by all and sundry. The lead characters, Jo and Bill, are supposedly on the verge of finalizing their divorce.  Naturally, they begin to bicker within 2 minutes of meeting onscreen - this is meant to show that each of them has a tempestuous and strong-willed nature, and is what passes for sparks in a Hollywood relationship.  The problem is, they come off as just bad-mannered and sulky; far from wondering how they will reconcile in the end, the viewer is left wondering how they ever could have been attractive enough to marry in the first place.  A third character, Melissa, Bill's new amour, is tossed into the plot like a creampuff into a shredder.  There is not the remotest chance that this little fuzzball will beat the lithe, sinewy Jo in a competition for Bill's affections, for what they're worth. Naturally, no melodrama would be complete without Snidely Whiplash, and this movie obliges with a villainous tornado researcher who is in competition with our heroes.  One of this character's greatest sins is that he is funded by a private corporation; this sordid money-grubbing is presented as a stark contrast to the noble disinterest of the underdogs, who are funded by the government.  Even in 1996, it seems, the standard government-good; business-bad cliche still thrives in the movies.   "},{"Title":"The big test","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Listen up.  I'll say this once.If you really like this movie, you are ill-equipped to judge movies and to know the difference between a good one and a bad one.  You have the critical abilities of a monkey in a lab who knows only the difference between a food pellet and an electric shock.  Nothing to be ashamed of.  You're exactly what Hollywood is looking for.This movie is crap.  Badly written, badly acted, not even directed.  The jokes fall flat, the effects are lousy, and the character development is non-existent.  It is a movie made by people who should know better, but who decided to fleece an audience of people who didn't know better.  Michael Crichton knows this movie is crap.  Trust me.  When you expend all this energy defending it, I'm sure it just sends him into convulsions of laughter as he rolls naked in the money you helped him make.You're better than this, people.  You don't have to settle for crap just because it looks nice.  Filmmakers have been known to make a movie better than it has to be.  There's a history of writers and directors making something that could be stupid into something that is great.  You don't have to buy into this nonsense.There is a great tornado movie to be made.  I waited a year for this movie to come out because I thought this would be the one.  I was wrong.  If you think it is a great tornado movie, so are you. "},{"Title":"It twists it's way down the toilet before the first 5 minutes are up!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hey, you know what, this movie isn't so bad.  I actually learned something when I watched this film.  I learned that I should have spent my time somewhere else, like in the local sewer!  The plot is bad.  The acting is bad.  The direction is bad.  Even the effects are bad.  Everything is computer animated today, so it's not like were seeing anything new.  Only a large waste of time, talent, and money.  The swirling twister itself that chases away the dumb asses(meaning the characters in the movie) is really a repulsive thing to look at!  I'll always remember Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt, running on foot(ON FOOT) a few feet away from a milewide tornado.  Boy, that's realistic.  Is this bad enough?  It gets worse! This also is plagued with some of the lamest jokes ever written into a film. Whoever wrote them obviously didn't have a good sense of humor.  The dialogue is so bad, it's not even funny!  Micheal Crichton and Steven Spielberg actually contributed to this?!  It's a shame, because I expected a film that was scary and exciting.  That's another thing I learned while watching this film.  Don't trust the trailers, which lavishly demonstrates it's special effects.  The actual film won't live up to your expectations. My advice; watch a documentary about tornadoes.  You might learn something.  "},{"Title":"Thar she blows!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't know if anyone has ever remarked that Twister is a remake of Moby Dick.  There's the protagonist who once lost  something to a huge mindless force of nature  and who has been obsessed (to put it mildly)  with getting revenge on it ever since.  There  is the protagonist's crew, who spend their days  scanning the horizon for any sign of the monster,  which inhabits a vast medium (the sea, the sky).  When they spot one, they set off in excited pursuit.   (You almost expect the crew in Twister to shout  Thar she blows!)  Their object is to catch the  monster.  The monsters are all big and brutal,  but there's a REALLY big, brutal one out there.   That's the one the protagonist is after.  There are some scenes in Twister that match  Moby Dick beat for beat.  Moby Dick The whale  disappears, leaving only its retinue of seabirds  whirling eerily over the water.  Where is it?  It's  right under us!  Twister  The tornado disapears,  leaving only its image whirling eerily on the radar.   Where is it?  It's right above us!Helen Hunt is Ahab, Bill Paxton is a cross between Ishmael and Starbuck.  The F5 is you-know-who.Over all, and despite the wonky science, Twister is a good movie.  It grabs your attention at the outset, and never lets go.  The only really bad part is Philip Seymour Hoffman's extremely annoying character, whose mouth you want to cover with duct tape. "},{"Title":"Irritating film","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Like probably a few other people, I walked out of seeing Twister the first time having liked it. Now when I see it on cable now it irritates me. Here are the things that irritate me the most about Twister 3. The way storm chasers are portrayed as a bunch of crazy yahoos.  I'm not one of them but having seen a few Learning Channel programs about them I see a big difference.2. The ability of the storm chasers in the movie to find great big tornados with regularity (like every 20 minutes).1. That fat, long haired storm chasing surfer dude.This was an unrealistic movie.  The special effects were pretty great, but it wasn't enough to carry it.  "},{"Title":"Simply spectacular.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As one with a lifelong fascination with tornadoes, destructive phenomenon, and the dark side of Mother Nature, this film met and surpassed my expectations.  The visual and audio effects were stunning and real, and the writing believable without being over dramatic and heavy-handed.  I appreciated the comic relief (necessary, I think, when dealing with forces of mass destruction and its aftermath in films or television), and the swift and swirling pace at which the story progressed.  Okay, so Bill Paxton will never win an Oscar, but so what?  His performance was more than helped by Helen Hunt, Jami Gertz (who I hadn't seen since 'Square Pegs' in the eighties!), Lois Smith and the rest of the rag-tag band of storm chasers. Even the soundtrack was perfect.  I can eat this up with a spoon, y'all, and I will - over and over again. "},{"Title":"Watch it on a big screen with superior sound; otherwise, it's soo boooriiing!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw Twister in a cinema and actually thought this was a good movie. The special effects showing tornado hurling cows and trucks into the air had a special appeal to me. I didn't care what the plot was (later, I figured out that there was no plot, so probably it wasn't surprising that I didn't care about it...), the tornado streaming across fields and villages was enough to keep me interested. Then I saw Twister on TV, hoping for reliving the great experience I had in the theater. Ooops! Since my TV is no technological marvel (small screen and terrible sound), special effects that usually save a bad movie at least in theater, were nowhere near so exciting as on the big screen. I quickly realized how boring this storyless film was. I also realized how little dramatic impact there was; I actually felt that Jo Harding was so ecstatic about the tornado that she wanted to get hurled into the air by it. What a poor acting, too, with a possible exception in the case of Bill Paxton. "}{"Title":"Twisted","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is not good, Bill Paxton tells Helen Hunt during a particularly hair-raising moment.  Their truck won't budge, its having been uplifted by a tree that a tornado has thrown in their path.  Meanwhile, an oil rig is hurtling toward them, courtesy of the same force of nature.  This is not good is all our hero has to say, and throughout one of summer 1996's biggest hits, I echoed the sentiment.  Michael Crichton is one of two writers credited with the script for this film which shows that his shame is equal to his talent (be my guest as to what that means).  Of course, there is no memorable dialogue; the only other notable reaction either Paxton or Hunt have when disaster strikes is to yell that four letter word that means excrement.  It's as though the writers were subconsciously critiquing the movie as it was being written.  Like almost every special-effects movie produced by Steven Spielberg (as well as those he has directed), the only thing that matters is the effects, which are, admittedly, very good. Everything else, including the lovely Jami Gertz, is there just to give the audience a brief respite from the action.  It's a lazy, cynical approach to filmmaking, but as long as equally lazy, cynical audiences respond by buying a hundred million dollars worth of tickets, we will be guaranteed more of the same. "},{"Title":"All the special effects in the world couldn't save this movie","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the best example in recent times of a movie with excellent special effects, and no plot whatsoever. It is a deep shame that after all the time that ILM spent on the special effects for this movie it still stunk. It is filled with dozens of characters you couldn't care less about, and every time that you watch it, it gets worse. And this movie made over 300 MILLION Dollars?! One of those Discovery Channel documentary films about storm chasers would have been better. Just toss a couple of cows in and put it in surround sound and voila.  "},{"Title":"Yuk","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If I were the tornado I'd be embarrassed to star in this mess. "},{"Title":"STUNK, STUNK, AND MORE STINK.","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It was dumb. Who wants to watch people chase movies, it had no plot, and the only thing good about it was the cow. "},{"Title":"I was rooting for the tornado","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What a piece of junk.  Non-actors populating a non-movie is not my idea of what cinema can be.  If I never see Helen Hunt again, it'll be too soon.  I don't mind Bill Paxton, because he obviosuly does not take himself as seriously as Ms. Hunt does. If anyone locates the director's brain, please return it to him. "},{"Title":"So filled with special effects, they forgot about the plot","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As I watched the tornados plowing up the fields and hurling cows into the air, my mind was so confused it forgot to find out what the plot was. As I watched I realized what a piece of crap this was. The only good actor in the movie was the tornado, nothing else mattered. It's scary that they are making a sequel, it really is "},{"Title":"One of the great disaster movies of the last 15 years","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Natural disasters are just about one of the scariest things in our world. They're also endlessly fascinating, sometimes even beautiful to look at. It's amazing how a tornado, for example, can demolish one house and leave the next one intact. With advances in special effects and stunts, filmmakers can depict not only what a major storm is like, but what it's like to go through it. Disaster films were a hit in the 1970s and had a bit of a revival in the 90s. 'Twister,' a collaboration between many great talents, was a really big event back in 1996. The good news is that, for the most part, it's held up well and is still great fun.Pros Good performances by a cast that breathe life into mostly thin roles. Fantastic score and soundtrack. Spectacular effects. Some exciting set pieces. Quick-paced. Laced with humor. Beautifully photographed. Some pretty cool ideas, such as Dorothy.Cons Have to really suspend disbelief. Not the greatest plot. Some of the visual effects haven't held up.Final thoughts I lived in Southern Texas when this film was released. I was actually pretty obsessed with tornadoes, so for me this was a must see. If you're looking for big thrills in a movie, 'Twister' is not a bad choice. It's the first movie about tornadoes and still the best.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"an outdated F/X movie is a dead movie.","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is 2009. For several years, the realism of CGI have reached a top in quality, and in quantity. 3D animated movies are so common you wonder how cartoon were made when computers did not exist.In 1996, CGI was hype. You could shoot a film without a script, an art director or even credible actors and still make a hit in the box office. This is the story of Twister.This film can not compare with the 70's disaster movies. In those movies, the tension was strong and constantly increasing. In Twister, the plot is flat, and when there is some action scenes, there are sliced by some boring dialog over the CB radio.This film does not challenge more recent disaster movies either, such as Independance Day or The day after tomorrow. The newer movies are describing global threats, are building stronger tensions, around better-profiled characters. With much more realistic effects. "},{"Title":"Twister Blows","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Mysteriously-funded and irrationally-driven storm-chasers gad about the American midwest, trying to throw an aluminum thingy filled with little aluminum thingies into a tornado. They say it's to research these natural disasters. Cue joke about this movie being natural disaster.Leading the pants-wetting charge is Jo (Helen Hunt) with her team of nonces, including a young, beatnik Philip Seymour Hoffman. Along for the sodden ride is Jo's estranged hubbie and ex-leader of the nonces, Bill (Bill Paxton), with his new psychologist boo, played with closed-kneed stoicism by Jami Gertz; with the talented Cary Elwes as a rival storm-chaser, relegated to Dick Dastardly sniggers.The aluminum thingy collects data from tornadoes (euphemized as Twisters for street-cred), to save lives&#133; while risking countless lives driving maniacally down small-town dirt roads, recklessly through cornfields and private property, through gullies where kids could be hiding, smashing through houses &#150; all the while, their computers effectively pinpointing tornadoes, their intensity, girth, location, speed, direction, their credit reports and bra sizes, long before any visual sighting. Yet none of these nonces is astute enough to resolve their goal by simply requesting grants to buy these fancy hi-tech gadgets for threatened locales.Directed by Jan de Bont (SPEED, 1994), written by made-for-filming novelist, Michael Crichton and Anne-Marie Martin, the very fabric of this movie reeks like a rain gutter gone stagnant.Seems these perves get their thrills by facing extinction, the nonces relating an absolutely pointless anecdote about Bill standing his ground before a tornado, railing at it naked and drunk, earning him the nickname The Extreme. So it is no surprise when, during the course of gadding about the Midwest risking their necks for no reason, Bill becomes estranged with his psych chick, when he realizes she is not psycho ENOUGH; seems she's not enticed with the prospect of gadding about the midwest risking her neck for no reason. The very society renowned for its profusion of unnecessary therapists - schizoid Americana - insistently derides Jami Gertz's therapist, who leaves the party when Bill gravitates towards ex-wife Jo (far more psycho!) who reconciles with him amidst the tempest and looks much better in a wet t-shirt.Jo is demonically obsessed with twisters because her father was taken by one in the scary opening sequence. So chasing them is catharsis - ironically, girl, YOU need that therapist more than anyone! This valiant attempt at three dimensional character went balls-up as soon as De Bont opened The Hollywood Cliché Handbook (Disaster Movie Edition) &#150; hoping against hope we wouldn't notice Jo's vocation is itself sorely one-dimensional.Since when is a storm-chaser (whatever that means) more noble than a therapist? Gertz is portrayed as a sex-with-the-lights-out prude; in one scene, she is made to look like an anal pen-pusher with misplaced priorities, as she consoles a distraught divorcée over her cellphone - while the fools in the car with her are *driving into the maw of a tornado.* Which begs the question What, in fact, does a storm-chaser do? The grant-grabbing apologists pipe up They study tornadoes to aid predictability and consequently, survivability. Which begs the corollary question why don't all those people in this film who live in a tornado alley, start the survival process by PICKING UP ALL THE LOOSE CRAP LITTERING THEIR YARDS? Their barn doors are practically falling off their hinges with rot, there are implements and tools scattered hither and thither &#150; ironically, as if a twister has just slammed by! Jo's aunt, Meg (Lois Smith), is out in her yard WELDING PIECES OF STEEL TOGETHER &#150; definitely sensible recreation in a high-risk tornado area!; in effect, NO ONE seems to be taking any precautions for tornadoes anyway - what would a ten-minute warning benefit as opposed to a ten-SECOND warning? And after all the cow-flying and tractor-slinging and wet t-shirts (and snippet of Deep Purple at THE California JAM, with wrong *Child in Time* audio under the visuals &#150; blasphemous swine!), when their last aluminum thingy (filled with Pepsi product-placement) is sucked into the vortex of a tornado, does the cheery, uplifting soundtrack mean the END OF TORNADOES? Is the world safe from natural disasters now that these intrepid swine risked their lives to throw extra aluminum debris into a twister (that probably came down somewhere and sliced a kid's ear off)? Do we leave the theater knowing that when a twister hits us now, we can rest assured that it will damage exactly the same amount of stuff, but at least we had a WARNING? Great! I could have taken my signed Pam and Tommy sex tape and all I got was my passport and Visa cards.Gertz actually spews the one sensible line in TWISTER You people are all crazy! Do you know that?! No, they don't &#150; cos the Bad Machine doesn't know it's a bad machine. And the makers of this moronic maelstrom are part of the bad machine.Michael Tunison speaks out in *Entertainment Today* The only thing that is going to stop this particular fad is a couple of real disasters... at the box office. "},{"Title":"Sucks and Blows","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had some hope that this would be a cut above the usual disaster flick; not yet another Towering Inferno or some-such. Too bad. I like Bill Paxton a lot and thought maybe he would be enough to save it. Nope. If the CGI hadn't been so fake-looking, then maybe it could have overcome the plot holes, incoherent story, and the usual maudlin sentimentality that disaster film-makers seem to think they can't get along without.As it is, it is just stupid, annoying, shrill and nonsensical. Anybody who's lived through a real tornado will know that it just isn't like this. Especially laughable is the growling noises the twister makes, as though it's some kind of nasty animal, like a grizzly bear or something. That is just idiotic.So, if you're looking for the disaster movie that they finally got right, this isn't it. "}{"Title":"nice visuals, but movie blows","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Twister' has what seems a can't miss premise for a dramatic thriller two teams of tornado-chasers compete to see which one's device will succeed in helping future forecasters predict the deadly storms more quickly and with greater accuracy. The catch- the devices have to placed INSIDE a full-blown twister to see whether or not they work. Which means getting close, real close to one while it's on the ground. How many times must we make the comment about big-budget films that don't really work, The special effects are great, but...? At least once more, I'm afraid. One could put together a very exciting movie by editing out everything but the tornado scenes in 'Twister.' Steven Spielberg does not appear to have been directly involved but discerning viewers will detect his fingerprints all over the excessively annoying and/or goofy characters. Philip Seymour Hoffman's is the worst (Hoffman would eventually land some decent roles), a manic storm team member who is sort of the 'animal' of the bunch (imaginatively named 'Dusty') who loves loud music and eating and laughing a lot... and to whom everyone's reaction is a good-natured shrug and eye-roll. Yawn. You get the idea. The other characters in this determinedly madcap, offbeat group of storm chasers are only slightly less tiresome. Think of the two kids from Jurassic Park grown up and multiplied by five. Jo (Helen Hunt) and Bill (Bill Paxton) are the two main protagonists, married once but now separated and almost-divorced (never mind), and they are drawn together once again by their mutual love of chasing tornadoes. Of course they argue and bicker through most of the film, which is a lot of fun to watch. Not. Jo's a bit of a mental case; her father was sucked up into a twister when she was little and so she's spent her whole life studying the storms. The tragic incident seems also to have left her with something of a death wish. So Bill, the more level-headed of the two, has to cope with not only trying to get the storm-tracking device to work but also keeping Jo from diving headlong into a funnel-cloud in the process. At various points during all this folderol, the tornadoes strike and never has it been such relief to see nature's fury unleashed. One of the best scenes occurs at a movie drive-in, where one hits unexpectedly while the storm team takes in 'The Shining' and the ensuing chaos and destruction is truly breathtaking to behold. The final scene in an open field, where Jo and Bill finally manage to insert the tracking device into a live funnel, is similarly hair-raising. Most people will come away from 'Twister' relishing these exciting bits and forgetting the wearisome interaction between the various forgettable characters. Others will tell their friends, The special effects are great, but... "},{"Title":"Tornado gets annoyed with tornado chasers","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A bunch of tornado chasers/researchers are driving recklessly in circles all over the place, telling scripted puns to each other over CB radios. Throughout the flick, it seems like the tornado has a mind of its own, and it competes with the chasers to see which of them can be more bizarre.First of all, which acts more insane? The tornado that wrecks stuff, or the demented tornado nuts that act like they're filming an episode of America's Dumbest Criminals? Also, which is harder on the eardrums? Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt, usually dependable actors, just become two oddball freaks with a vendetta, as they try to drown out the volume of the tornado's destruction with their incessant yelling and arguing. The funnel cloud turns around and attacks them in almost every scene, to the point where you count how long it takes the tornado to stage its surprise move. In one predictable case, it goes after a drive-in (which of course is showing a goofy horror movie--what else?), along with a town where the chasers' friend lives. Cornball? Well, there's more. We mustn't forget the nitwit government loser (also a tornado researcher), who plays follow the leader with his nameless goons in black-painted cars. What action/disaster movie would be complete without a government knucklehead who ends up--oh well, you know.The stupidity of the main heroes will amaze you, and the story is too far fetched. However, this movie has effects that are impressive, so the film does end up having some merit. Fast forward to the tornado action scenes for the best enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Bill Paxton has to go!","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I can only rate this a 5; I found Bill Paxton so incredibly annoying in this movie. All the other characters had this quiet tension running through their stories. Bill was just whiny and loud. His amazing verbosity throughout this entire film was so distracting. Never mind that he had a background story of his own - but trying to pull him up as some kind of Storm Chasing Hero was a joke. And the naiveté of his betrothed was almost as ridiculous.She should have been blonde.I did really enjoy Helen Hunt's character. Quiet, strong, scientific, underlying - and her aunt was a perfect match for that baggage. I don't think someone like that would find Bill attractive in the least.Especially since he was not the only male on her team.Once again we bow to the special effects and bow down to the wonders that make it possible and allow it to convince us the entire movie was well worth it. And once again we can look forward to a deluge of the same because this got such positive response.Sure I enjoyed it, but not enough to rave. "},{"Title":"WHAT THE ????? why so much buzz about this","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i can't believe how many comments and discussions there are about a movie like this. i mean sure,when i was channel flicking and it was on TV i thought it was OK but this seems to be creating quite a stir in the IMDb world. this movie is no citizen kane, power of one or space oddesey, it doesn't even get the remembrance of star wars or indiana jones, in a few more years if it wasn't the first movie ever pressed to DVD no one would even remember to look for it on the weekly hire shelf at the DVD store. This movie has more faults in it than an earthquake movie and I'm not just talking about improbable stuff I'm talking plain faults. if i hadn't come across this when googling some meteorological stuff i wouldn't have bothered to look it up on IMDb at all. WHAT IS IT ABOUT THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"A simple twist of fate for Philip Seymour Hoffman during his first trip to the Midwest (the second was Capote)","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Whether or not we regard Twister as an homage to the disaster flicks of the '70s is not the point. The point is that anything such would be better if there was only the disaster part and not all the pap about people's relations and emotions (except that the disaster part is exactly what makes these movies such a cliché to begin with, so wouldn't it be better for Hollywood to just come up with an original plot once in a while?).Anyway, the plot here of course has a gaggle of scientists chasing tornadoes, hoping to find out about the insides of these phenomena. Unfortunately, they had to stack it with some mumbo-jumbo about someone's marriage (or was it an ex-marriage?; I couldn't really tell). Overall, Philip Seymour Hoffman - as one of the assistants - is the coolest character. Getting into the role the same way that he did Truman Capote, he brings something neat to an otherwise eye-rolling movie. Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, and Cary Elwes have all done better roles than this, and Jan de Bont...well, he hasn't done anything good since Speed 2 and The Haunting.And to think that I saw this movie while attending a family reunion in South Boston, Virginia. Weird... "},{"Title":"Whirling nonsense","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I first went to see this movie in 1996, I told my lover to never mention to anyone that we had seen it. I thought it was embarrassingly bad. I just watched it again on cable. I don't know why.I agree with what the fellow who is a chaser said, although I have no interest in chasing them. The realism of this movie is no where to be found... It's merely a variation on one of the oldest of ploys...the car chase. In this case, a car chase becomes a tornado chasing the car. Ho hum. I don't know whether the concept of this movie was actually one of Crichton's or de Bont's, but no one who has lived in the MidWest and lived through many nights of terror thinks of them this way. There is genuine drama associated with a tornado...a storm, then usually a quiet in which everything is very calm...no birds sing...no noises except for people who pay no attention...then another storm and the tornado, usually. Sometimes it does progress to the tornado without the calm, but quite ofter it's very quiet and what a dramatic tool for movie making! So whoever did write this I fear has spent little real time around them. As for chasing off in the fields trying to catch them, might make a good video game...not a movie. As for acting??? Good for a high school play. "},{"Title":"I gotta go Julia, we got cows.","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The problem with science fiction is that for every science fiction story that comes out, a scientist who truly is an expert in the field shakes his head wondering where it all went wrong. Meteorologists have long the bane of the viewing public, a public that often remembers the few missed forecasts than the many right ones, and those meteorologists are the ones who have had to endure the most from the traumatic event that is known as Twister. As a point of disclosure, I am indeed a meteorologist, so perhaps my harsh view on Jan de Bont's film is borne out of the fact that I know that tornadoes tend not to just drop out of the sky on top of a hill in the middle of a forest, nor do they sound like a hungry rhinoceros. Written by Michael Crichton (in a rare lapse of 90s judgment for the Jurassic Park author) and Anne-Marie Martin, Twister follows around an underfunded crew of tornado hunters, lead by Jo (Helen Hunt) and tag-along TV meteorologist Bill (Bill Paxson) as they race against the evil crew of well-funded scientists lead by Dr. Jonas Miller (Cary Elwes) as they both attempt to get their gizmos of data collectors to fly up into a tornado. How do we know Dr. Miller's team are the evil ones? Simple, they all drive black vans. Both teams are trying to figure out the same thing, how to save lives from dangerous tornadoes, but we have to sit there and watch the good guys try to get there first. We also have to sit through the usual divorced couple soap opera, a family member's life in danger situation, and the completely plausible scene where a pickup truck drives through a house. Would a non-meteorologist enjoy this film more than I? Probably, things do get blown up real good, there are flying cows, and perhaps someone will be prompted to learn something about the weather. "},{"Title":"Could have been good","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister was almost universally slammed upon it's release in 1996. Jan De Bont came hot off the heels of a great success with 'Speed', but unfortunately he couldn't make it two hits in a row. It is a shame, because Twister features lots of brilliantly thrilling action set pieces. The tornado ('Tornado' wasn't as striking a title as 'Twister') is one of nature's most extreme expressions of itself, and the scenes with the humans battling against it really do get the adrenaline running. Cows and 'debris', which consists of things such as Combine Harvesters, Petrol trucks, and my personal favourite; an entire house, which our hero's must drive straight through to get to safety, zip past the screen and cause our hero's all manner of trouble. This film has no problem with it's action side, so why doesn't it quite feel right?It's not a problem with casting, as this movie features a fairly good cast. My favourite actor, Bill Paxton heads it. Bill doesn't put in one of his best performances in this movie...actually, some parts are painful to watch, but Bill is definitely a talent and he makes the movie worth seeing. (He was my main reason for seeing it). Starring opposite Paxton is Helen Hunt. Helen would prove that she could act a year after this movie with the brilliant; As Good as it Gets in 1997, and she gives a decent performance here as the typical woman; bitchy, controlling but ultimately lovable. The Dread Pirate Roberts is the villain of the piece, but he doesn't really get a lot of screentime and to be honest, I don't rate him anyway. Jami Gertz is equally unimpressive as Bill's prissy, yet uncharismatic girlfriend; but those two are made up for by Phillip Seymour Hoffman, who, despite having an extremely irritating character to work with, puts in a great little turn and steals nearly every scene he's in. So it's not a problem with the casting, so what's the problem?The human drama is the problem. Frankly, it's laughable. It isn't helped at all by a lacklustre script, which is cringe-worthy at times, but it's not even the script that really makes it falter; it's the complete lack of feeling for any of the characters. Of course, the tornado's are the real star of the show, but if you're going to include a human element; you have to at least make it work. The story behind the twisters is that Bill and Helen are married, but awaiting a divorce. Bill has found another woman in the form of Jami Gertz, and wants Helen to sign the divorce papers so he can remarry. However, life is never that simple and Bill and Helen are actually still in love; a love rekindled by a mutual love for the weather condition of the title, of course. The chemistry between these characters is non-existent and it really spoils the movie. I recognise the fact that you can't have a movie without a human element for the audience to relate to; but the one here is terrible. Just...awful.So, do I recommend Twister? Yes, it's action sequences are fantastic and the film is, therefore, well worth 2 hours of anyone's time for those sequences alone. The movie is definitely good entertainment, but it would have been a lot better with a decent script and characters that you can feel for. "},{"Title":"Star rating 3 out of 5","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister has a worthy premise, some thrilling action sequences, and a great deal of potential, yet disappointingly is a film that adds up to less than the sum of its parts.  Tornadoes cut swathes of devastation through mid-USA every year and television audiences the world over are shocked and yet strangely titillated by the resulting newsreel footage.  So as a film following a group of (fictional) storm chasers as they attempt to scientifically measure a tornado from the inside (with a view to improving the warning systems), Twister has all the ingredients of an extraordinary viewing experience.  It is certainly fast-paced and exciting, but also regrettably formulaic.        Cliches abound - cute dogs saved from imminent peril; chaser crews composed of stereotypical weirdo science nerds; a daring rescue from a destroyed house seconds before it collapses; some unexorcised trauma about a father's death-by-tornado; Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt cheating death innumerable times, even as the bad guys (rival tornado chasers) succumb. . . . . . . . .. The special effects are what save this film from mediocrity.  The tornadoes are frighteningly real and the debris showers (including a cow and a petrol tanker) will have audiences ducking for cover.  And unlike many disaster films that seem to drag as they build to a climax, the tornadoes in Twister appear right from the word go.  Bizarrely the soundtrack to the tornadoes was made by dubbing a camel's groan and slowing it down - resulting in some rather odd sounding twisters.  By the time the camel is finally silenced and the story reaches its predictable conclusion, the cliches and improbabilities threaten to overwhelm, and the film ultimately fails to completely satisfy.  "},{"Title":"The tornado was so strong it blew the plot right out of the movie.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  NOT a good movie.  Just a bunch of special effects and flying cows.  I hate to say it but this is what hollywood has come to. I left the theatre with one word on my mind.....HUH???I give it a 4/10  "}{"Title":"Horrible wannabe movie.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is awful! It is a bad movie with no characters, a bad story(or maybe no story at all), OK special effects and a terrible result the return of disaster movies to Hollywood! It is hard to find a quality to Twister. The story is that a group of scientists try to put some kind of device to discover new facts about tornadoes. Of course, they have a rival team, a.k.a. tornado food. Add to that a cheap love story and you have an excuse for this special effects based movie. Talking about the special effects, they were very good in 1996 but 4 years later they are already kind of bad. Twister was a hit, which led to equally bad man vs nature movies to be released, including Dante's Peak and Volcano. 2 out of 10 Avoid this movie...  "},{"Title":"Twister is an overblown piece of cynical tripe","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is one of the first of a huge wave of disaster movies released in the last few years that hinge on computer animated effects and obviously spent more money on crafts services than the script. Cut and paste together a series of badly acted scenes that are stolen from movies that sucked in the first place and you have Twister. This is easily one of the worst films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Definition of Mindless Entertainment","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What a silly movie. A bunch of reckless tornado chasers go about trying to catch up to twisters even though they know how dangerous and futile the enterprise is. If there were more the the plot than that, I might accept their derring-do as engaging character flaws - unfortunately, the story really begins and ends right there.There are, of course, several of the apparently necessary Hollywood cliches. There is a romance between Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt, which is clumsily drawn out, and a kind of side-story involving Cary Elwes as a bad guy (bad mainly because he is a tornado chaser who is financed by a corporation, and therefore he is a reckless idiot for the money, not for the pure motives of our heroes). But a monkey typing randomly on a keyboard labeled with B-movie staples could have strung together a better plot - and probably more interesting characters as well.Most people thought that the tornado effects were stupendous - indeed the film was nominated for an Oscar for Best Visual Effects and for Best Sound. OK, they're loud and pretty inventive, but all in all they weren't anything spectacular. THE MATRIX or TITANIC - now that's spectacular. This was spectacle, but not spectacular. "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The acting is low-down lousy. The director seems preoccupied with spending the budget rather than doing his job. The plot merely exists. Are you really supposed to sympathize with the ridiculous personnage around the silly hero? Complete rubbish. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Really, I'm only giving it a 3 because it keeps you entertained. The acting in this movie is very dry. Bill Paxton has to be the worst actor of his status. He's just not good. Other than the acting, the story was just lame. Not a lot happens. It's kind of a So What? film. Like, it ends and you don't care at all about what you just saw. I remember being six or seven when I first saw Twister. I was an easily amused child that took everything for what it was and just enjoyed movies without criticizing them. And I still hated Twister. It's just a bland, overall useless, over-rated film.I mean, this isn't really helping anyone, since almost everyone has seen it. But in the off-chance that you haven't, avoid it at all costs. Even if you have seen it, still avoid it at all costs. You're at someone's house and they put it in? Leave. Rude? Not at all. It's rude to show bad films to your guests. Your girlfriend like it and owns it? Break up with her. Really, there's no need to ever see this movie. There's certainly no need to see it more than once. Sometimes I have nightmares that I've died and gone to hell. It's not a pit of fire. Just a small theater with one chair, where I sit while Bill Paxton hosts a marathon of Twister playing over and over again for all eternity with commercial interruptions. And every single time I am forced to laugh at the flying cow joke, lest I be prodded violently by Bill Paxton's pitchfork hair-do. "},{"Title":"it won't blow you away","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" this gets a 4 purely for how Helen hunt looks (foxy). I'll get you over some facts first, this isn't about the board game where you spin the spinner and get tied up in knots.It's about the mental idiots who chase storms for a living to try and enhance the science of weather prediction and tornado behavior. going from being no-one in Terminator, to being second string in Aliens, Bill Paxton plays the starring role of Bill (just in case he can't remember his own characters name i assume?), a former storm chaser about to settle down into married life (again) with a new wife and a new job as a weather man.he has gone out the field to see his ex wife played by the lovely looking Helen Hunt to get her to sign his divorce papers, but he's taken his new wife to be with him.there are lots of howling goofs in this film (the biggest two being a jeep can't use it's 4X4 ability to get out of a tiny shallow sided ditch and that the tornado can pick the jeep up but not the bridge made of wood?).I don't even bother with the bad science or the really awful Wizard Of Oz references and the totally pointless showing of The Shining.Unless you want to look at Helen Hunt in a tank top for the whole film, I'd not bother. It hasn't worn well with age. "},{"Title":"How in the world did this happen?","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Bill Paxton, Helen Hunt, Phillip Seymore Hoffman in a Michael Crichton script, and it is one of the worst films ever made.I wasted my money on this garbage when it was new and in the theaters, and I'm still mad about the lost time. I could have had a nap, or read a book, or perhaps just sat on the floor staring into space. I want my time back! Here is how you can test your IQ... Watch this film. If you are insulted, your IQ is at least average. If you like it, you are an idiot that thinks anything is entertaining.IF you are going to try to outrun a tornado, do you get out of a perfectly working vehicle (which probably has a top speed of 80MPH) to run on foot (roughly 10 MPH)? Do you really think someone could get close enough to a tornado to throw a bottle at it? This movie is insultingly stupid. The dialog is awful, the plot inane, and the special effects (although well done) just plain stupid. Worst of all, it wastes a potentially great cast.AVOID!!!!! "},{"Title":"Apparently they have more than just 9 lives!","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I gave this film a 5 out of 10.Sure, it was entertaining, and it kept my attention. I can even say that I've seen it on multiple occasions, but on the other hand 'Twister' contains so much illogical malarkey in it that it can be downright irritating.When watching movies, we all should be aware of the term, Suspension of Disbelief. The problem with this film is that it comes from the perspective of a reasonable scientific phenomenon, but goes way overboard bending the laws of physics. With this, I'm referring to the seemingly invincible characters that appear to have more lives than our furry feline friends. Now every thriller needs close calls, but the majority of the incidents in 'Twister' are a little overboard in bending the laws of what you believe to be possible, sometimes just shockingly absurd. Honestly, I could not even count how many times the main characters should have died, not to mention the eye-popping defiance that their bodies seemed to have to obvious laws of physics... I am sorry to say that rewatching this movie was a disappointment. Maybe the film would be better if you watched it knowing that it was going to be a disaster.To sum it up, if you don't mind suspending your disbelief beyond the norm for a 'scientific' disaster flick, then you are ready for this average blockbuster thriller. Otherwise, you're likely to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The classic tale of good meteorologist vs. evil meteorologist... a story as old as time itself!","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  OK, short and not so sweet. This movie is awful and stretches the viewer's belief too far. Storm chasers work for years and might get lucky enough to photograph one tornado from a distance of less than a mile in their whole career. These people are thisclose to three in less than 24 hours. Enough said. "},{"Title":"Pure loud American action fun","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I like movies that deliver what they promise.With a title like Twister, you would think that this movie would have a lot of tornados in it potrtayed in an adrenaline packed way.  Guess what?  If you think that, you're 100% right.There's nothing revolutionary going on in the plot, but the acting is good and as an action film, the plot serves its purpose well to do little more than support the action.  Ok, there are one or two real cornball moments, but they don't ruin the film.  The writing is good enough to make Helent Hunt's character a sympathetic protagonist, but doesn't get drawn out and deter from the twister action.  And twister action there is.  There are several great scenes of awesome storms that look very realistic.  More importantly, they sound realistic.  If you crank up your dolby, you'll be able to feel the power of the wind.  You really want to make sure you have some kind of surround sound (with a nice powered woofer) and at least a 27 screen.  Twister was one of the early films to incorporate a lot of CGI special effects and it does so conservatively.  The effects are used to achieve a level of realism, none of the common we're doing it just because we can that makes some CGI effects look so lame.  Every element has a point and serves it well.  The point here is to recreate tornados in a realistic manner, and that's exactly what we get.Twister is pure action fun.  If you like your movies loud, your popcorn hot, rock and roll music and machine guns, it's hard to not like Twister.  It's not going to win any awards (except maybe for effects or sound), but it certainly delivers what it promises.  One of my favorite action flicks.There are also lots of really beautiful scenery shots of Oklahoma.  I've never been, but this movie makes me want to go.   "}{"Title":"Tripe!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What a crock of Hollywood bull! I hated it so much I'm sendingin my first comment to IMDB. Gimme a break Jan de Bont (director), Michael Crichton, Anne-Marie Martin (co writers),and Helen Hunt etc  "},{"Title":"Spectacular f/x. That's the best feature.","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of my favorite disaster movies that has the basic American elements to succeed A dramatic blockbuster plot that everyone will enjoy or feel good for it's characters; spectacular f/x; a heroic rescue; and the occasional light humor to support the nerve tensing situations.I enjoyed this very much when it came out on theaters and I can say it was a great pop-corn flick.To these days, it hasn't aged very well mainly because of the kitsch plot and soap-opera acting but this movie is carried entirely but the f/x and spectacular sound.This isn't a classic by any means but still it's a movie that should always be remembered as one of the greatest classic hits of the 90's. "},{"Title":"Good theater movie...unimpressive at home.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies you have to see at the theater to really enjoy.  The tornados on the big screen look great and the sound is effective too.  You can lose your mind and just go for a thrill ride.  Unfortunately when you see it on your own TV the magic is gone and you are left with a movie that has so many things wrong with it, it becomes a rather blah film.  The story, storm chasers want to deploy some stupid thingies to measure a tornado from the inside.  How will this help anything...who knows, but more power to them.  The tornados look good, but it isn't like you can't see real tornados everyday on the weather channel.  The scenes with the tornados though are the highlight, but the talking scenes get kind of boring after awhile.  This movie runs just a bit to long and could have easily been trimmed a bit.  The rival storm chasers for instance were kind of pointless and really added nothing to the film.  This is a movie, unfortunately that also suffers from so many scientific flaws as well.  I am no scientist, but even I had my doubts on some of the stuff.  Best to have seen this one at the theater, cause that is just about the only place this movie can be really enjoyed...scaled down to TV it becomes rather weak. "},{"Title":"Hoffman's Tempest Twist","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Spoilers herein.The great Phil Hoffman plays the chief technician-scientist of a group of stormchasers. As with most scientific projects, the front men/women are the figureheads. Here they are impetuous, non-methodical and pettily competitive as well. The true genius is often in the background; often brilliance is marked with personality 'disorders.' So here we have the obviously dimwitted Bill and Jo as the leaders and Dusty and his handpicked team doing the real work. The rest are content to stay in the background.Hoffman plays the gay Dusty, who has long had a crush on Bill, the male 'scientist' leader. Through some device (of which we remain ignorant) Bill's wife drove him away from the project. This film is about the machinations of getting Bill back into the team. That the plot revolves around sexual confusion is underscored by Bill's fiancé, who is a sex therapist (consistently experiencing 'bad communication,' through her cell phone -- rare in those days).(There's a pretty blunt association of the storm with sexual confusion, as a story is told about a drunk, nude Bill confronting the storm.)Dusty plays Prospero, summoning up great storms to coax events along. (Spero means dust in the gaelic Shakespeare parodies in his play.) This Prospero is not always in full control however, and the forces do get out of control at the end, harming the beloved Aunt Meg, (Meg is a sort of likable Caliban, providing nourishment and making mechanical weathercharms.) But by the end Dusty has his double victory Bill is back and the scientific mission (at least the data collection) is done.I know lots of Dustys, and often suspect them of creating to suit themselves that part of nature they study. The self-referential, rather clever element of the story is how Dusty conspires to focus the movie away from him. But while standing in the background, he acts up, reminding at least himself that he's in charge. Shouting don't look at me. "},{"Title":"Huffs and puffs but it didn't blow my house down - 51%","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For reasons I won't explain, I have travelled up from London to my hometown of Great Yarmouth in Norfolk. My parents wanted to see me before I turned 24 on Friday and how do I repay them? By forcing them to sit down and watch this with me. It could have been much worse, you know. It could have been some dreadful real life telemovie on Living TV!Twister, in case you couldn't guess, is about a rather large tornado sweeping its way across Oklahoma and the efforts of a team of slightly messed-up storm chasers to launch a probe into the storm. Doesn't sound too gripping, does it? OK, let's say that the two lead storm chasers (Hunt and Paxton) are a couple on the edge of a divorce. And there are a team of evil (read corporate) storm chasers with their own probe and jet black trucks. And... and there's an old woman and her dog in peril! Truly, every tension-raising trick is employed by this film - something you might not expect from a Michael Crichton script.The reason this film falls apart (and the reason I'm disappointed, having been under the impression that this was a good movie) is that almost every one of the characters is fundamentally unlikeable. Less than a day later, I can't remember any one of the character's names but I do remember that every one hacked me off in some way. The woman who dedicates her life to chasing storms because her daddy got sucked up in one. Her husband, the ego-driven extreme reporter on the verge of a blossoming TV career. His girlfriend, a shrieking therapist who clearly knows nothing about the man she's about to marry. Each one is so preposterous that the entire credibility of the film is in jeopardy, not that credibility was ever going to be a strong point of this film. How a tornado (a word I never heard being used in the film) can pick up vehicles, livestock and buildings but not our two heroes running away from the scene is just one example of many of where little thought has been put into this movie. Back to the script, guys!Although the makers might take this the wrong way, Twister reminded me of another natural disaster movie with a Hollywood spin on it - Dante's Peak. Both movies are about setting up the scene and then destroying it in a blur of CGI and special effects, characters fleeing for their lives because so much is at stake. Though the tornado does look impressive, the credibility is broken when you see blue sky next to it or nothing blowing in the breeze. Again, this really should have been sorted out by the editors before release. Sadly, the editors can do little with a corny script, cheesy dialogue, laugh-out-loud ridiculous action sequences and plot holes so wide that only a twister could have ripped it apart. But are any natural disaster movies so different from this one? Even the recent Day After Tomorrow seemed to follow the same template as this - throw people with emotional problems into a situation where the elements conspire against them. This film could probably have been made back in the Fifties, though clearly without so much reliance on special effects.I shouldn't have been so disappointed but I was. Twister is a middling mess of a movie at best, the tornado itself given all the attention while the characters bicker and argue over who will save the day. It's predictable and riddled with inconsistencies. Perhaps I should take back my earlier comments about Living TV. OK, Twister wasn't that bad... I'd rate it slightly above Dante's Peak but that ain't a ringing endorsment. Twister ruffles your hair, rather than blowing you away but at least it will amuse your parents for a while. "},{"Title":"a very cool movie","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie. The tornadoes looked so real. The F/X was really good. The acting was good too by Paxton and Hunt. The music was good too. It was good from the beginning to the end. The action never stopped. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good natural disaster movie, action, and a good adventure movie. You wont be disappointed. I wasn't "},{"Title":"Exciting yet flawed","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The time this film came out was when I was graduating high school and you always seem to remember that blockbuster that gets all the music videos and buzz. This was the film and for the most part it's exciting. At times the creators expect us to believe whatever they put on screen and some of us have to be a tad bit subjective. I mean there are times where we are expected to throw out all knowlege of what is humanly possible so we can get that tense feeling as Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton easily dodge flying debris and vehicles. I'm sure stormchasers risk their lives..but come on. The dialogue and story are also threadbare and silly. I mean I don't see adults scheming over devices that fly into a tornado. I also can't see Cary Elwes being that stupid to trust technology completely over human instinct. The humans in this film do stupid things that normal storm watchers don't do. I've watched specials on tornado chasers. They know when to trust their instincts and when it's alright to trust technology. That's where the film hurts it's audience. I liked Hunt and Paxton..though they were saddled with some inane dialogue and asked to do things their trained characters wouldn't..AND COULDN'T..do. ***/***** "},{"Title":"Hollywood Blockbuster 101","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is the kind of film Hollywood has relied on for years to make ends meet. It's a light-hearted, action-packed, special effects dominated extravaganza with a great cast. It's about as intellectually deep as an episode of Sesame Street, and the highlights involve a massive force of nature demolishing the property of often nameless, faceless victims. There is little in the way of human pain or suffering so people are not likely to leave the theater depressed. These attributes helped this film make a king's ransom back in 1996. Unfortunately, now that the small screen is the only place to view it, this film's weaknesses are particularly glaring.The story involves two rival teams of storm chasers. One is a motley crew of Bohemian types who are led by Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt. The other crew is led by Cary Elwes. They drive black SUVs and work for corporate interests. Guess which team are the bad guys. Both teams have similar machines that they plan to release into the tornadoes to recover as much data as possible about the inner wind currents and whatnot. Each team spends the entire film tearing up the Oklahoma countryside and trying to guess where and when the biggest storms will form. It looks pretty good on a big screen, but the spectacle is really lost on the ol' tube at home. The film is predictable beyond belief, but if there's nothing else on it won't kill you to watch a few minutes until something interesting comes on another channel.Those of us who like to critically examine the films we watch are left to ponder such trivial issues as.......How much of the dialog was actually written down? With so many continuity errors, was there a script supervisor? I would have suggested Martin Kitrosser....What exactly are the potential commercial uses for tornadoes? Why would corporate interests send out a team of chasers? Does Phillip Seymour Hoffman look back at his work in this film with a sense of pride? Why did the tornado have to wreck the drive-in screen that was showing a great movie like The Shining? Why were Pepsi cans the only kind they could find when they needed a bunch of cans? No Coke in Oklahoma? 5 of 10 stars So sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"Great Special Effects, but not much else","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can say without hesitation that this is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I could watch about five minutes of the special effects and be happy. The rest of the movie is putrid. The acting is uninspired. There is no chemistry between Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt, or between anyone in the whole movie for that matter. The dialogue is without a doubt the worst of any movie ever. The actors all deliver with either too much emotion or none at all. The things people say are just so inane and horrible I find myself wanting to shoot the screen. Even though it is supposedly an action movie, there is no suspense, no edge of your seat momment. Sure, the tornado is scary, but no one is ever believably placed in situation that could cause a reasonable person to actually believe they are in danger. (1/10) "},{"Title":"Awful, Yet Also Pathetic","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What an extremely disturbing experience. I mean sure we all had a chuckle at the cow, but apart from that it was disgusting. During the screening of Twister back in 1996, I spent the majority of the movie trying to decide whether Pathetic or Awful was the more appropriate description.Perhaps the worst fact about the whole movie is it was Helen Hunt's career best acting performance. This is the most depth I've seen her give in a role so far, and Helen Hunt was absolutely Awful. Others may say she was Pathetic. "}{"Title":"Oh my god...","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is truly one of the baddest movies I have ever seen. It's so bad that I, seriously, got angry while watching it. Waste of money.Seems like Hollywood came up with a new nice graphical twister plugin for their expensive silicon gfx machines and thought they would make a movie entirely based on the new special effect.The constant stream of bad acting (partly due to the horrible script) combined with the never-ending, and totally unrealistic, ways the main characters get out of deadly situations by luck and by using goofy one-liners just makes you want to laugh ... or cry, I don't know.The worst part must be the compulsory love story in the movie. Totally straight-out-of-the-road and spiced up with some sweet background music that goes right to your heart. Makes you wanna cry. "},{"Title":"Sucks and blows - Twister","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"29 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" You don't play with Mother Nature. That's common sense; anyone who does, well, I feel sorry for them. In Twister, Nature is given a frightening new dimension courtesy of breathtaking Hollywood CGI effects but it's dumbed down by a questionable script and dialogue (thanks to none other than novelist Michael Crichton himself as a co-author, along with wife Anne-Marie Martin) and sub-par acting. Sure, a number of liberties are also taken with tornadoes (fingers of God - one character calls them), but what do you expect from a film directed by Speed Jan de Bont?And lastly, who goes to see movies like this for scientific accuracy? I remember watching it with a friend and giving him a nasty tongue-lashing afterwards for his redundant pointing out of the various scientific and factual inaccuracies that abound in it (which he told me had each been identified by his science teacher - go figure). I snapped back, Dude, chill out. It's just a movie. Who cares if this does or doesn't happen, or tornadoes don't suck like that. I basically told him to get a grip.Nature is unrepentant in its desire to test human will to withstand her destructive forces. I showered praise on Twister for capturing that and making sure its human characters realize it. I make these statements because Twister is quite terrifying in its scenes of tornadoes blazing paths of destruction, and this is what people tend to miss when watching it. I know I'm sure to run into flak because of it but, what am I going to do *shrugs shoulders*?As the film opens on the plains of Oklahoma's Tornado Alley, the National Weather Service is tracking several storm systems that if they were to merge any time soon, they could see a record outbreak of violent, tornado-producing severe weather. Next, we're introduced to meteorologist and recent divorcée Bill (Bill Paxton) and fiancée Melissa (Jami Gertz) - She's a reproductive therapist, he reassures us, after Bill is asked if she is HIS therapist. Melissa isn't too keen on the idea of storm chasing, which poses a problem for them both, but for Bill it was always the thrill of the hunt, and we know he's not going to pass the opportunity to get back in the mode of things.We then arrive at a field where we meet the storm chasers, led by Bill's tough ex and fellow meteorologist Jo (Helen Hunt), who has somehow mysteriously forgotten to sign her name to the last page of the divorce papers (she still loves him). When asked if he's back by the various supporting players, he emphatically denies he has returned to his field of expertise. But it turns out, however, that before their marriage went to hell, they had been busy developing a revolutionary storm system-tracking device that could give them the inside knowledge of how tornadoes work.DOROTHY (real original), the miracle device, a package that contains hundreds of little sensors, could be placed in the damage path and each sensor could provide a detailed map of a tornado's inner-workings and with such knowledge now available, they could design an advanced warning system. The trick is, however, they have to wait until a twister spawns, place Dorothy in its damage path (or Suck Zone), and then run like hell. The action begins when they're forced to take off to chase after the storm, and it's about here the film abandons logic and plot for nonstop special effects, peril, and destruction.Saying the acting here sucks and is uninspired is like saying we went to see Jurassic Park (1993) for the performances - understatement - get real. It's easy for any casual movie-goer to pick apart bad acting and lousy story, but come on, it's a roller coaster film. I'm not sure I could put it in clearer writing for you about how we don't go to see movies like this for Oscar-winning actors or plot. I've always liked Bill Paxton (who I personally see as probably being the next Clint Eastwood), and I find it difficult about how he has somehow managed to avoid stardom. Here, his character seems to know how the storm functions and what it thinks, and in essence he's a human barometer (even his wild days as a radical storm chaser do deserve some laughs).The writing is substandard, including Jo's barely-hinted upon obsession with chasing the storm (as a child, she saw her dad killed by a monster F5), Lois Smith as Jo's Aunt Meg (who supplies our famished heroes with platters of beef and eggs between effects scenes), the underdeveloped storm chasing team (some of whom are more colorful than others, including Philip Seymour Hoffman as Dusty), and the unnecessary subplot involving stiff competition from Cary Elwes as a corporate-sponsored rival who stole Bill's invention. But this isn't too glaring a problem, if you're a hard-a** for art in cinema and came to Twister expecting it. You'll see plenty scenes of destruction (just wait for the drive-in showing The Shining), and the music that swells up when tornadoes appear.Lastly, I can see how anyone who has experienced a twister in their lives could probably want to possibly stay from Twister. I've never seen one and I don't want to. I do know people who have experienced tornadoes; in northern Virginia, where I live, we rarely see the kind of severe weather that produces twisters, but my grandparents, who live close to me, were once in an F1 and thankfully it caused minimal damage to their property and neighbors.Twister isn't a failure; it's a simple realization of the popcorn blockbuster. Put aside the hard-pressing of art, turn off your brain, and enjoy (but you should still watch out for those flying cows, tanker trucks, and other debris that can become a hostile projectile if picked up by a tornado's winds); it's that simple.7/10 "},{"Title":"Every bit as realistic as Solarbabies","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"34 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm a tornado chaser.  The movie has portrayed us as a bunch of yahoo cowboys who have no concept of danger. We do not 1) go bouncing across fields and through ditches chasing tornadoes 2) get hit by a tornado, watch our truck slam to the ground, and calmly commandeer another truck and keep chasing. We go home and change our underwear if we ever get hit. 3) We don't get hit because we're not stupid enough to drive up to a tornado 4) We don't find a tornado every 20 minutes.  Finding one tornado in 3 weeks of chasing is getting pretty lucky. 5) We don't yell and whoop and holler when we get hit by two tornadoes. We go home and change our underwear again, and give up chasing because we're too stupid to chase if we get hit twice in one day. 6) In the scene where Bill was dropping grass leaves to determine where the tornado is  The clouds being shown were from an actual tornado chase video. It was a classic, very promising mesocyclone. In this situation, we would be going ballistic and scrambling to go after it, not standing around smelling dirt and commenting it's really talkin' 7) We can't tell when and where a tornado will be by smelling dirt. 8) We can't tell when and where a tornado will be by looking at grass stems. 9) We don't stop in the middle of a chase for steak and eggs at Aunt Meg's. 10) Tornadoes do not growl like a lion 11) We don't have love-interest arguments while a tornado is bearing down on us 12) DOROTHY is actually a rip off of a real tornado package developed in the 70's by the National Severe Storms Lab, called TOTO (TOtable Tornado Observatory) 13) In a real chase team, Dusty would be shot. 14) There are no evil chasers.  We don't compete against each other, and we don't get corporate sponsorship. 15) We don't go busting through cornfields and almost cause wrecks by blasting out onto a highway. 17) We don't listen to bopping music when we're chasing a tornado.  We listen to AM radio (it transmits lightening flashes), scanners, CB's, and HAM radios (usually all at the same time)   Some of us have TV's in our cars to tune in local weather channels too. 18) We don't run in to barns for shelter from a tornado. We know they'll be blown away. 19) a belt will not hold us down in an F5 20) even if it did, we'd be killed by flying debris.  F5's can lift semitrucks and hurl them around at around 100mph. The survivability potential there is very low. 16) Dirt roads are avoided (not good to get stuck in the mud) and for the final bit of unrealism, the scene where Aunt Meg is saved from the heavy TV falling on her by the co-axial cable holding it back . . Anyone who's ever hooked up video equipment knows the stupid co-ax's break at the drop of a hat.  There's no way it would have held the TV.And the acting was bad too!!!all in all, the movie stunk!  (I will admit, I really liked the soundtrack. Very nice music)  "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Really AWESOME Movie!!!!! One of my childhood movies, I have watched this movie over and over again!!!! Even though the movie is awesome some of the acting is weird but I have seen it a lot and to me one of the best of all time!!!!! The effects are awesome!!!! My most favorite part of the movie is the tractor scene, it's amazing!!!! The soundtrack on this movie as well is awesome!!!!!! But sometimes the thing that does bug me sometimes is the dialogue!!!!! But I still love this movie a lot!!!!!! The people that were in the movie is awesome and to me I like this movie more than Independence Day. The action was awesome as well and was not disappointing. People probably won't agree to what I said probably on this review but it's OK everyone has their own opinion but still to me one of the best movies of all time!!!!! ) ) ) "},{"Title":"Disaster Movies = Bad Dialog/Script/Acting = Fun","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" No one goes to see a Disaster Movie for the Dialog or the Acting, if They do They are Misguided. These Things Tend to Deliver Mind Boggling SFX and Allow the Rubberneckers to get by Proxy a Cathartic Thrill and not Much Else.This one is Dumber than most with Overacting that could be Categorized as an F-5 and some of the Most One Dimensional Characters, Inane and Embarrassing Dialog and Script ever to appear On Screen. This a Bad Movie by Anyone's Analysis.It is Definitely Worth a Watch and not Only for the Rip Roaring Wind and Devastating Destruction, but to see what a Disastrous Script and Incompetent Direction Money can Buy. This in itself is a Mystery for the New Age.One of those that is Deserving of the often Mislabeled......So Bad it's Good. A Mind Numbing Boggle. "},{"Title":"My favourite","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I first saw Twister , my then girl friend thought it was too noisy and gave her a headache. Wow. It did it. It's become one of my favourites over the years. Bill and Helen at their prime. Action and emotion presented in a digestible fashion. Dustin Dusty being my favourite. I do not like meat....being driven towards vegetarian point of view...still the steak scene is so tasty. Action is great. CGI is cool. Emotions are predictable and dealt with. Still it works to the advantage. I've never seen an action film better than Twister. My favourites are Dusty Dusting and of course Billy Paxton and Helen. Strange thing is the film has not been regarded as a significant achievements. Shame. "},{"Title":"a wild and fun ride","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" for me this was one wild fun ride.the special effects are top notch the sound is perfect.the colours are great.true,there isn't a lot of story here or character development,but this movie is all about the special effects,the Twisters.it's exciting and fast paced,there's even a bit of lite humour.it's also sad and tragic at times.the only real complaint i have is the ending.i found it a bit unrealistic.but other than that,this was one movie that will blow the socks off your feet.the acting is just fine for this film.after all they're not doing Hamlet here.and the film doesn't try to be anything other than what it is.for me,Twister is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"the sort of movie that you will either like as a guilty pleasure or not care for at all","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of the big hits of 1996 was Twister a big-budget special effects extravaganza paired up with a cornball human drama story that did, and will still ultimately finds its audience split right down the middle on the verdict. This is the kind of movie that you will either like as a guilty pleasure or not care for at all. Me personally? I enjoyed it, but again, as a guilty pleasure.The movie stars Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton as storm chasers who are the verge of finalizing their divorce until a new invention that started when they were married finally starts to come through and they find themselves teamed up again. Paxton's fiancée, played by Jami Gertz, joins their enigmatic group as they race to deploy the new invention before a rival group in black cars and backed up 'corporate sponsors' can do the same thing. And they go into and out of one cyclonic storm after another.The thing that attracted audience members to Twister were the great special effects and they are great. Although it is a shame to admit that Twister is another example of Hollywood now taking the assumption that if you lure the audience member with the best thing of a movie, that that's all they're going to want from it, whereas an audience would really be interested if they were lured into a big special effects movie, only to discover that there's also a fresh, exciting story that envelops and surpasses it. And the story is the biggest complaint that I have for Twister. The marriage-divorce scenario is completely predictable as to how it's all going to resolve. And the antagonists of the movie, led by Cary Elwes, are two-dimensional and come straight out of page one on the book of movie clichés. They talk big and smart, they have high-tech gear, they drive in black cars, have corporate sponsors, want lots of money, and they're facing down the little guys. The human story did not have me interested.So perhaps it is a good thing that the movie does throw you one tornado after another because the special effects are the best thing in the movie. The combination of computer graphics and props and simulations work brilliantly, even though it is hard to believe that the characters can survive one storm after another so many times. But the tornadoes are terrific and they keep coming on at you every twenty minutes or so for two hours. Now this can be a little tiresome, but Twister does stop itself just in time before it completely overstays its welcome.In the end, it's not a good movie by any stretch of the imagination. Again, this is the film that one will either like as a guilty pleasure, like me, or you won't care for it at all. And even if you do like the movie, there is still one big lapse in the whole thing that you realize at the end. If tornadoes really did show up as often as they do in the movie in the same general area, there would be nothing left standing in the Midwest anymore. It would all be leveled. "},{"Title":"Heart-pounding. Exciting. Realistic. A True Classic.","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Since when does age matter? Even though Twister was released over a decade ago, produced on Windows 95 and DOS computers, you sure will not know the difference. Amazing special effects make their presence known early in the film, followed by a heart-pounding, suspenseful journey of storm chasers attempting to drop a scientific probe directly in the path of a tornado. Obviously, this task is sure to not be a walk in the park. You will find yourself immersed in the hunt, following Helen Hunt (no pun intended), Bill Paxton, and the team of storm-chasers throughout the Great Plains, dealing with excitement, accomplishment, and anguish along the way. Special effects, astonishing camera movements, a brazen music mix, and a blend of love and family top the cake. Twister- if you haven't seen it, where have you been all these years? "},{"Title":"Pretty good, finally saw it.","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yeah I know, this came out when I wasn't seeing so many summer flicks as later, and well--it seemed pretty clichéd and predictable. What parts of it I saw on TV thru the years seemed to confirm it.Okay I bought the VHS for a buck here locally, decided-why not? check it out. It was Better than I thought it would be. I really enjoyed tornadoes-they're pretty menacing ala the T-Rexes in the Jurassic Park movies, especially the big F5 at the end. You don't for a second believe that Hunt and Paxton could strap themselves to some piping and ride that out-but hey, it makes for a pretty decent F/X scene-so what the hey eh? Not a surprise Michael Crichton co-wrote it either-thus the JP connections.I enjoyed also the familiar faces-Elwes as the nominal non-twister baddie-very under-written part, Phillip Seymour Hoffman, Jake Busey, Allen Ruck, etc. All pretty good in somewhat 1 dimensional roles. It was fun seeing the 'Here's Johnny' Shining scene at the drive-in too! Jami Gertz didn't have much to do save answer her clients on her cell-phone in the truck, scream and then give Paxton the heave-ho in favor of Helen Hunt. And this clearly was back when Cells were still a relative novelty, check out the rampant CB usage in this movie! that hadda be one of last films where the CB radio got so much play.Anyways-you get what you pay for, it's nicely done and you don't remember much save for the flying cows, trucks, tankers and tractors at the end. Check it out if you haven't seen it for awhile, it's not bad at all.*** outta **** "}{"Title":"Great Movie.","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First off, I love this movie. I first saw it during the 2004 Hurricane Season. We were staying by ourselves in an empty church because Hurricane Charlie was set to bulls-eye our town. Instead of watching the Shining and giving in to the creeping feelings of cabin fever, though, I popped the movie into the VCR for the projector screen in the student room, and watched Twister, the sounds of the movie mixing with the sounds of the storm outside.Also, another reason to like this movie Thunderstorms rock. I was never one of those kids growing up who would cower under the bed when a T-Storm hit Florida is, after all, the lightning capital of the world. Heck, we'd open up the window shades and enjoy the show. I also have a Grandma who would pamper us grandkids just like Aunt Mae. For me, there's a lot of nostalgia riding on this film for me, and I won't have any elitist snobs ruin it for me.Honestly, if you're going to watch Twister, watch it on a rainy day. A really rainy day. Makes all the difference. "},{"Title":"Dustys' personality","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. I have always been facinated by tornado's and waterspouts (tornados on water) ever since I was a little girl. This movie has inspired me to consider a storm chasing tour for my next vacation. My favorite character is Dusty. Nothing seems to bother him. To Dusty, life is just one big adventure. I like the way he tried to creep Melisa out when he tells her about the suck zone. I think pairing those two up in the truck and at aunt Megs' house was great. Talk about a personality clash. Dusty seemed to also have a sensitive side when Melissa overheard Bill and Jos' conversation on the CB. He looked at Melissa with compassion. "},{"Title":"Top grossing film?  People, we are in trouble.","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film on VHS a few years after it's cinematic success with my roommate.  Ten minutes into the film, we looked at each other and both blurted out Is this really 'Twister', or is this a parody or an edited copy or what?Granted, our curiosity was peaked, and within the next 20 minutes, both of us were in utter disbelief; to the point of simultaneous laughter or shaking of our heads in unison at every scene.  If it wasn't the script, it was the acting(if one can call it that), or it was the directing or sleep-inducing special effects.Twister is the only film I have ever watched in its entirety in which every scene was unintentionally hilarious, due to one of the four factors previously mentioned.  If those responsible for this movie had set out to purposely make a movie like this, they could not, in a million attempts, succeed as well as they did without trying at all.When it ended, my stomach muscles ached from laughing so hard, and at the same time, my brain and head ached fiercely, unable to comprehend how this film could be so well liked, and be one of the highest grossing movies of all time.  Please tell me you are all just kidding.  If not, hope for mankind's survival is at an all time low.For my all encompassing review1. Dysfunctional formerly friendly adults team up and chase tornadoes.2. Other less sympathetic family's homes and lives destroyed by tornadoes, and these folks were not even thinking about chasing them.3. Tornado chasers must each have diets heavy on the bad cholesterol, as the odds of them falling victim to a tornado are 1 in 3 billion, the same odds as this film being compared to Citizen Kane at any time in the near future.4. When the tornado chasers finally succeed and catch up to a tornado they have been chasing, what do they do?  They turn and run away from the tornado.  Lets chase it!  Lets run away from it now!  Lets call ourselves idiots!5. 50-ton big rig trucks fly around the screen like feathers in a pillow fight.6. 150 pound tornado chasers have the hand strength of a rusted shut, 10,000 psi vice grip, and all articles within 10 feet of them have the magnetic qualities a naked Raquel Welch has on the eyes of boys in the Junior High locker room showers.7.  Chase tornado.  Catch tornado.  Run like hell away from tornado. Miraculously survive tornado, thank God you are alive!  Chase tornado again! Catch tornado again!  Run like hell away from tornado again!  God must really be watching out for me today!At this moment, paying 10 bucks for a bag of popcorn and some sugar water seems reasonable.  Boy, I hope the concession line is really long, but no! "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've read some of the comments and found that they where negative ones, but since I liked the film I wanted to give my opinion. First thing the special effects are amazing (especially the one with the cow!!). The plot was unusual but interesting. But it is the extent to which we get to know the characters that gave the film depth and made it worth seeing!!! "},{"Title":"For the most part, pretty good","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister/ *** starsFor the most part this movie is pretty good, and I liked the plot of this movie and how everything fit without becoming a big mess. Paxton and Hunt do great together in this movie.Twister is about Bill Harding who comes to a Wisconsin town to bring the divorce papers to his almost ex-wife, tornado chasing friend Jo only to be caught up in the tornado chasing career again an falling in love with his ex, much to the dismay of his fiancee, who ca'nt help but feel like the outsider when a bunch of dangerous tornados swing into town. Meanwhile, Bill and Jo try to use a program that can predict tornados before they arrive.A pretty good movie, don't miss your chance to watch Twister. "},{"Title":"This Flick will blown you away (but not too far)","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Crazy people chasing tornadoes huh? Is that a plot? ahh! forget about the plot and enjoy the ride.Actually when I first saw on this film I don't like it much.Because it's too predicable and very clummsy plots. But when it came out to DVD and I watched with my folks, They seem to enjoy it very much. So I think that this kind of movie will easily penetrate to many people more than others. Great effect,great entertainment. Among the disaster genre this one is above other.(6.5/10)  "},{"Title":"Perfect example where the true 'star' is the f/x","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" TWISTER (1996) **1/2 Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Jami Gertz, Cary Elwes, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Lois Smith, Alan Ruck, Jeremy Davies, Joey Slotnick. Special effects wizardry is the only reason, really, to watch this somewhat dopey film about maverick meteorologists who chase tornadoes with plucky Hunt and gung-ho Paxton ('The extreme!') as estranged couple teaming up to try to find out what makes the wind blow. Kudos to the brilliant visuals thanks again to the genius of Industrial Light and Magic.Some truly amazing and catch your breath thrills best bits include the destruction of a barn and silo as Hunt and Paxton race side by side in their truck, an 'Oz'-like moment of a house being plopped down (and running the truck through the house!), and arguably the coolest sequence &#150; the drive-in demolition with 'The Shining' onscreen. Written by Michael Crichton and Anne-Marie Martin and directed by gonzo Jan De Bont. "},{"Title":"It shouldn't be as boring as it is","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What I mean by that statement is that for a big-budget summer-blockbuster, this movie really cranks out the yawns. When I first watched it, I was expecting excitement and edge-of-your-seat action and was sorely disappointed when I was bored out of my mind. The few would-be tense scenes are so predictable (Really, did you honestly think are going to kill off someone like Helen Hunt?). The actors/actresses are, for the most part, top-notch. I've always liked Bill Paxton, and Helen Hunt is very likeable. But the supporting cast is extremely annoying and throughout the entire two hours, I was wishing they would get sucked away into oblivion by the twister. Also to fault is the lack of reality. I won't give the ending away, but when you see it, you'll laugh at how illogical it is. Twister is, overall, one of those movies that most people have forgotten about by now. I really don't recommend this movie. It's so boring. "},{"Title":"OH YEAH!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is a one great film. It's exiting, interesting, and has great characters. People say It's nothing but special effects. This is not true. I found that my Favorite aspect of this film is the fact that it's about people who love their jobs. Their enthusiasm really makes the whole thing come together wonderfully. Another detail that really adds to Twister is the cinematography. The editing and camera work are outstanding. Some of the best I've ever seen. Altogether, Twister is one of my favorites simply because it is entertaining beyond belief. I would definitely recomend this one if you're looking for fun. "},{"Title":"The Only Saving Grace","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There are two things that save this film. One, the special effects. Im not usually one to buy into Hollywood blowing stuff up, but I love storms, therefor... Two, Philip Seymour Hoffman, as Dusty. Yeah, that guy that you know form somewhere. Amazing talent there... not put to very good use, but he pretty much saved the film. I kept wondering why he had such a small part. Not bad, but there are better. "}{"Title":"Could have been a lot better","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First of all, let's say that this movie has no plot at all. The story is so dull, it's scary. So you see the movie for the special effects, for the tornadoes. Well, you got plenty of it. But even there, it's more sensational than realistic. And what about the makers of the pick-up truck that Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton drive at the end? They must be very happy. It's good publicity for their company. Hey, why not, a pick-up that goes into multiple tornadoes, get it by everything that's flying around, but keeps going and going, and going. Just like the Energizer bunny!6 out of 10 and I was very generous. "},{"Title":"My number 155 movie ( contains story )","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yes, you have read correctly. Twister is my number 155 movie ( outta 730 about ). This movie is about a tornado ( or a few tornadoes ) that destroy everything. Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton try to bring some transmitters ( called ´Dorothee´ ) in to the tornado, so that they can discover how tornadoes arise and which ´way they take to the continent´. I have to admit that I usually like disaster movies ( Armageddon / Godzilla / in a way Deep Impact ), and so this is my movie. It is not as good as Armageddon, and a bit worse than Godzilla, but it is better than Deep Impact, because there is more action, that is not non-sense, like it is in Godzilla. The special effects are good, too. My only complaint about this movie is Helen Hunt. She is a bit annoying as a woman scientist, and she does not fit in this role. All in all, I rated this movie 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie full of excitement and comedic scenes","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I happened to love this movie, I own not only the VHS copy but the DVD version as well.  The movie has good graphics and comedic parts that make you believe it is realistic.  I had no problem following the movie from beginning to end.   I can't wait for the sequel.   "},{"Title":"A really excellent film","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister gets some negative reviews for its romantic sub-plot(between Hunt and Paxton) and while I agree somewhat. It was just filler in the movie, however that is not the point of this film. The point was the struggle between Mother Nature vs Humans and it succeeded in that department very well. The special effects are probably the best ever from a 'disaster' film. The acting and some of the scenes can get choppy at times, but Twister is a without a doubt a pack filled, fun ride from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Once again, Jan de Bont comes up with all the goods...","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I say once, because after this he made the slowest action film, and the dullest horror film ever made. But Twister is one of the finest films I have seen in the theater, and everybody slagging this movie off have probably seen it on the small  screen. The visuals, the acting and music all fit perfectly in an OK story (for a disaster movie I guess), which cannot be said of the latest attempt to a disaster movie, Perfect Storm.  I can't wait for the sequel!! ****1/2(out of five)       "},{"Title":"Enjoyable.....just like cartoons.","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed the film even though it's not(gasp) high drama. It's action packed and funny just like cartoons. It is not thought provoking, or deep, or serious. Just plain entertaining. Great special effects. This movie has it's flaws but they are too easy to overlook.The Godfather or Shawshank Redemption or Schindler' List or Casablanca or Citizen Kane it ain't. But then it's not trying to be. It's potato chip entertainment (low in nutritional value but still taste great) not a gourmet dinner.Don't expect too much out of this film but entertainment and you shouldn't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Watch out for the cow!","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was left gobsmacked after this film.  The special effects are excellent and the story, although thin, is easy to follow.  I think that the studio just wanted to show what they could do with the technology at the time and forgot about the characters just a little bit. Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt are convincing in their roles as tornado chasers.  There's a good scene when Cary Elwes gets sucked up into a twister after trying to get there first.  An equally good scene is when a cow flies by the truck after being sucked up in a twister.Overall the film will be remembered for it's ground breaking effects and that's it really.  Must be seen on the big screen for the full effect.  "},{"Title":"action not dialogue","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The tornado action is stunning! How did they do it but the lead up to the final action is trite and unbelievable. The script writers somehow do not make it natural. However, this is a must see film for those remarkable scenes of twister devastation. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but a great ride.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  We have enjoyed this movie so much that we watched it so many times that we've had to put in on the shelf indefinitely till we can forget it enough to watch it again. I've read other peoples' reviews, and there is truth to the fact that it may not be the most original or believable script in the history of filmmaking.  But, remember folks, this is the movies! Part of the job of the moviegoer is to allow a certain level of disbelief.  One of the things we have enjoyed so much is the interaction between the members of the twister-chasing team. The characters are drawn with a few strokes, yet there is a real sense that these people have worked in life and death situations to achieve their common goal. The scene at the dinner table at Aunt Meg's is particularly delightful.  "},{"Title":"Sound, Fury, And Little Else","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister looked like a film that had great potential when it first came out in 1996, but ultimately it is nothing more than a special-effects tour de force.  Helen Hunt stars as a woman who is intrigued by tornadoes and takes ex-husband Bill Paxton on an unforgettable tornado run through Oklahoma.  That is basically it when it comes to the paper-thin plot.  Jan De Bont's direction goes for thrills and chills rather than character development.  Because of this the audience's attention span becomes very short.  The film is watchable, but overall unsatisfying and disappointing.  2.5 out of 5 stars.   "}{"Title":"Lots of Action, Great Special Effects","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is by far one of the best disaster movies I've ever seen. My heart was pounding throughout the entire movie. The storyline wasn't too original, and the plot really isn't character driven. However, it is still an interesting story, and this movie is a must-see "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought Twister was a good movie.  It wasn't too long and it had a lot of action and great special effects. But twister did have its defects like the script wasn't that good and the acting wasn't so great either. However, this movie was entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Blew Me Away...","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie has one of the best trailers ever made. The special effects are outstanding. The dialogue could have been better. Bill Paxton, Helen Hunt, and Cary Elwes are always on target. Loved that whole Drive-In scene - Very Intense! "},{"Title":"Terrifying experience, a bit overdone.","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As a native of the tornado alley area, let me point out that, of all movies I have seen that involve malignant mother nature, Twister does the best job of clinging to reality.  However, the drama and soap-opera-like style of operation does not hold true for professional storm chasers.  Over all, Twister does a fantastic job of portraying tornadoes and the basic aspect of storm chasing.  The director brought many cinematic qualities to the movie that add to the intensity of the experience.  Great lengths were taken to personify the twister in the movie.  For a computer animated tornado, this tornado is startlingly accurate.  Twister is well worth the hour and half it runs. "},{"Title":"melodramatic, but fun!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Melodramatic at times, campy at best, this film nonetheless is fun yet mindless entertainment.  Characters deliver lines such as He really is in love with himself, I thought it was just a summer thing  I got the impression that the scriptwriters took a glossary of meteorologic terms and wrote a line of dialogue to include each one.  The scenery was pretty. Special effects, of course, were awesome! "},{"Title":"Well, I liked it.","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Most people did not seem to like Twister because it had no plot.  They were probably right, but I still liked it.  There was only the slightest hint of a plot, and they spent most of their time trying to fit in special effects.I have not quite decided why I liked this film so much.  The effects were superb, and you would swear the tornadoes were real.  Most of the acting was pretty good.You have to sit down to watch this movie with an open mind.  You will either really like it or really hate it.  Do not expect a good story, but enjoy the special effects.  They are amazing! "},{"Title":"Great fun!!!","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister should not be confused with great cinema classics such as Gone With the Wind (no pun) or The Godfather, but it is a truly excellent action movie that is loads of fun to watch.  Eye-popping effects, solid acting and magnificent camera work and directing make Twister a great, great movie. If you are looking for a stoic, stuffy, serious, artsy movie...forget it...this movie aint for you.  Fun loving movie goers need only watch this one. "},{"Title":"A fun movie to watch on a cold winter night.","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you're looking for a movie where you don't have to try and figure out some complicated plot but only looking for fast action then this movie is made for you. Oh, there is a plot of some sort but it's hard to pinpoint. Sort of good scientist verses the evil tornado, who will win, story at eleven. The real stars of the movie are the special affects wizards. Sort of like, Hey we have some really cool affects let's put them in a movie and have fun blowing away the audience. That's exactly what these f/x gurus did in this film. Turn your head away for only a moment and you miss something, flying cows for example. In some movies you wait and wait for the action scenes to wake you up but in 'Twister' you keep waiting for the action to slow down just a bit so you can catch your breath. Overall this is a fun movie to watch and well worth renting at your local video outlet. Keep your remote close by as you'll want to rewind some scenes just to if what you saw was actually what you thought you seen. A fun movie. "},{"Title":"Twister does have a good plot and not so much special effects. .","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Now come on here! Twister had to be the hottest movie out! I think, in my own opinion, I think this movie is worth renting and the plot is well put. I own the movie on DVD and VHS, and watch it everyday! For people who dislike tornadoes, I recommend not to get this movie, it will BLOW you away! "},{"Title":"Gusty fun.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While its true that the movie has a thin story and some goofy dialogue.One can not argue that the action and special FX were outstanding.And those are the main forces that drive this movie. Some truly inspired action scenes make for a fun ride,just sit back and hold on for some gusty fun.  "}{"Title":"A fun film","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There were a few blatant inconsistencies in this film, such as mismatched odometer readings and background scenery shots from the truck. And though I found most of the film to be totally unbelievable, it will always hold a special place on my list of favorite films, just for the plain fact that it was fun to watch.  No heavy think required, the perfect prescription for a boring Monday night. "},{"Title":"Reality Check","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having read most of the user reviews here on the IMDB, I feel compelled to say Everybody just calm down!I'll start with the bad news...First This is an action/adventure pic, not A Room With a View. The plot isn't particularly well-developed, and some of the characters are one-dimensional(eg. Melissa being a pretty wobbly leg in the love triangle, it being obvious from the get-go that she's a flimsy plot device). I didn't expect Terminator to be Ben-Hur, either.Second This movie is not a documentary about tornadoes, so all the criticism about fudged details concerning storm-chasers and miscellaneous meteorology seems a tad shrill. No, tornadoes don't usually come in herds, one right after another, but the film does give us several scenes where it says plainly that this situation is unprecedented. In order to tell an entertaining story (not a documentary), many characteristics of 1) meteorologists, 2) grad students, 3) storm chasers, 4) storms etc. are exaggerated. It's called fiction.Third To all those who dislike the quantity of screen time devoted to tornadoes in this film, I have only to say Well, the title IS 'Twister', what did you expect?Now, the good news...Everybody is entitled to their opinion, and my opinion is that this movie accomplishes it's goal to be an entertaining thrill ride with some interesting technical info thrown in as a bonus. It's a spectacle with great CGI and a super score by M. Mancina. Now, if you watch TLC once in awhile, you will learn the following 1) people do in fact get close to tornadoes (not on purpose). Some die, some don't and have some pretty amazing stories to tell. 2) The storm chasers in the movie appear to be a hybrid of amateur chasers and the VORTEX chase team (academic crowd), and it makes a colorful blend.One of our fellow reviewers noted that the story seems to be a retelling of Moby Dick with Jo as Ahab. I would also add that it is a hero tale a la Joseph Campbell. The hero is split into two persons (Bill and Jo), but the gist is the same. The hero has a quest (kill the dragon), must overcome obstacles, has a sage old advisor (Aunt Meg), and must give up his most prized possession (his new truck) to achieve his goal. I'm sure there's more, but that's the Cliff Notes version.The folks who don't like this film seem to focus on particular details (such as not liking Dusty). The folks who like this film either just enjoyed the ride, or picked up on the elements that make this a classic, if simple, archetypal tale.As for me, I've worked in some crazy, dangerous situations and know people like almost every character in the film (except the flimsy Melissa and Jonas), and enjoyed being there with them as the story rolled along.Both thumbs up. "},{"Title":"I can't talk right now, we got cows.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  That's no moon, THAT'S A SPACE STATION! The one-liners in this film rule but other than that, some cool scenes and the visual effects this movie is quite empty. The plot is lagging and drama is scarce and non-influational on the viewer but it was broadcasted on my local TV so I saw it.Synopsis for the smarter among us Bill Harding (Bill Paxton) comes back to texas to get the final divorce agreement from his soon to be ex-wife Joe Harding (Helen Hunt) but upon arrival they start chasing tornadoes to dump a machine called Dorothy into it so they can measure it. The whole movie is about chasing tornadoes and they are done quite beatifully.If you got nothing to do on the weekend and have a hour and half of free time then go see it, otherwise, it won't hurt any one if one skips it. "},{"Title":"Twist and shout","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What a non stop waltz with a bunch of 'storm troopers' and mother nature. this had to be seen at the cinema to get the full effect. The bass used in the music was awesome and really added to the tension. Yes, the acting was a bit suspect, but the direction and special effects were masterly. This was a film to entertain and get you on the edge of your seat. The fear is made greater by the fact that this stuff actually happens frequently in the mid-west,USA. "},{"Title":"A Fun Ride","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Many reviewers say there is no plot, but I felt it had a worthy plot with the whole DOROTHY concept. In a way, it is a nice tribute to the people who did this in real life. I believe it is Howard Bluestein (?), and he created a device called TOBY, and did a similar thing. Of course his work wasn't successful, but If I were him, it would seem nice to be able to see your vision take place. Despite obvious mistakes by the film-makers, It is a fun, intelligent, and visually stunning piece, with a great performance by Helen Hunt. I felt that the only downside was the little love-triangle between Jo, Bill, and Melissa. Sappy and unemotional. Did anyone care for Melissa? Honestly? "},{"Title":"Have you forgotten...","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hello!?, the plot was to get the little machine (Dorithy) into the tornado, so, there you go people, the plot. And I think it's going to rock to have a sequel for TWISTER. maybe they'll put another machine into the tornado, come out with a F6, or whatever! keep watching for the sequel! "},{"Title":"Have you forgotten...","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hello!?, the plot was to get the little machine (Dorothy) into the tornado, so, there you go people, the plot. And I think it's going to rock to have a sequel for TWISTER. maybe they'll put another machine into the tornado, come out with a F6, or whatever! keep watching for the sequel! "},{"Title":"I thought it was great!!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie Twister was excellent.  I love the thrill of the chase, and the theme of the movie.  The special effects were pretty good, and the footage of twisters...wonderful!!! I have seen it ten thousand times, and love it each time.  So what if it isn't 100% realistic.  Who believed in everything that was presented in the Terminator movies??  Films don't have to be real to be enjoyable.I thought the acting was terrific, and I liked the fact that it takes many viewings to decide how many people there are in the storm-chasing party, and even longer to work out all their names.  I've heard that there is a sequel being made, and I look forward to it. "},{"Title":"It`s got so many special effects,that`s what makes this truly remarkable!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister was a great movie, but some of the acting was acting you`d expect to find on Sunset Beach!Bill Paxton and Hellen Hunt star as the lead characters, Hunt plays Joe, who has been seemingly chasing Tornadoes since she was little, she has a sort of personal vendetta against Tornadoes, ever since her father was killed by the strongest tornado, an F5, when she was just a girl.She was married to Bill but they broke up and, years later Bill returns with his fiancee, played by Jami Gertz (Lost Boys). But instead of getting a divorce from Joe, he does the opposite and falls back in love with her, oh yeah while this is happening they are chasing Tornadoes and trying to plant their invention ,DOROTHY I,II,III and IV, inside the funnel of the Tornado.But there is another team following them and have their own replica invention, and it`s a race to whoever launches it first.A great film, and can`t wait untill the sequel. A 6 and a half out of 10. "},{"Title":"Saying this movie had no plot is an insult to some very courageous people","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In the real world, there are actually people who hop in their little trucks, minivans, and Vocswagons, and go put their lives on the line by hunting tornadoes in an attempt to learn more about them.With that said, this movie was just showing how some of their lives may be, but throwing in a love triangle and the convenient appearances of tornadoes. Helen Hunt didn't win an Academy Award for nothing. The woman can act. And, in a comedic way, she pulls her role off with ease. I can't say the same for Bill Paxton, but he did an okay job.The star of the movie was in fact the tornado. It was beautiful, scary, but an awe to watch. This film really deserves more credit than it was given.  "}{"Title":"This movie is awesome.","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was excellent.  I didn't know what it was like to be caught in a tornado but this movie showed how real it really is.  Bill Paxton was awesome in this movie. "},{"Title":"Who cares if the script is lame?","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ok... so the script is lame.  Who cares?  This is a really fun movie.  Don't take it seriously and just enjoy it.  The special effects are incredible, and once in awhile, that's more than enough.  "},{"Title":"Special effects are awesome!","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I must admit, the special effects are really good. The movie DEFINITELY has a plot.  Real storm chasers are trying to do the same thing that the characters in the movie are doing finding a way to get information for an advanced tornado warning system.  Great for weather junkies (like me), but an awesome, action-packed thriller for weather & non-weather lovers alike. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies made. A special effects dream","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a brilliant film with amazing special effects. It must be viewed using full surround sound set-ups though.  From the very first scene to the very last it's excitement all the way, although it is quiet easy to tell what the eventual outcome will be (as in nearly every American film). "},{"Title":"just a lot of fun...","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister has its critics, and rightfully so, but nevertheless is just pure fun.  A landmark film in special effects, Twister dishes action and excitement unrelentlessly from one tornado chase to the next.  Plus the relationship between Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt is sweet and comical.While the movie's lack of plot and the sometimes unrealistic action scenes may disappoint some viewers, Twister's main point is just pure entertainment.  If you're looking for this kind of a film, or if you would like to test out your home theater system, by all means get a copy of Twister on DVD.   "},{"Title":"heart-pumping,exhilarating, scary ride!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wow,  Twister just keeps throwing those cows at you.  Between a twisted love triangle you get to feel the full brunt of a twister.  Although there are a few mistakes made in the movie, it is a blast to watch.  You'll be watching for the skies to turn green after this one. "},{"Title":"it's the best movie ever made","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  for all of you people who don't like twister,well you all suck! The cast was especially great and the special effects were amazing. I own two copies of the movie and i know every single line. come on people, it's so good.for all of you who say it's fake,well have you ever really been in a tornado? Helen Hunt as Jo, Bill Paxton as Bill,Alan Ruck as Rabbit and the rest of the cast were awesome! it was not only suspenseful but funny sad and kept your interest. twister rules way over any other movie and if you haven't seen it.........see it. "},{"Title":"Amusing, not absorbing","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hopefully this is not a surprise to anybody Twister is amusing and entertaining but not absorbing.  Sometimes movies are made as a showcase for new technology.  It is possible to showcase new technology and have a great story (case in point, Star Wars), but this is not such a movie.  The story is simple  Storm chasers have a new gismo for analyzing tornadoes and they're looking for a tornado to try it out on while the Arch Rival (TM) makes similar gizmoes (except they're square, not round); he is punished in the end; barns are impressively shredded; farm equipment and cows are tossed about; the Big One (TM) makes an appearance; the end.I happen to think it's a fun movie to watch.  The visuals are good and the sound effects and sound quality are there to match.  Watch it if you can tolerate the simplistic plot, can tolerate cookie-cutter characters, and are in the mood to see some good special effects. "},{"Title":"I will always have fond memories of this movie","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'll never forget the summer of 1996. I was 14 years old, and all I wanted in the world was to go and see this movie, Twister. I finally got my mother to pony up the money to go and see it at the local cinema.  Let me tell you this, I was blown away! (Pun intended) I couldn't believe that special effects could get that good! That was the first of 6 more times I would see Twister in the theatre, and it got better each time! This movie is my Star Wars. I studied it, I memorized it, I loved it! For the next 6 months, all my parents heard was how much I was into weather because of this movie. I read countless books on weather development, and cold fronts, and such. I am totally fascinated by weather, and it's all because of Twister. So critiscize this movie if you want to, but I will never ever forget what a thrilling experience it was the first time I saw this movie on the big screen (and the 5th and 6th time as well!) I have been praying for nearly two and a half years now for a sequel, and maybe someday I'll get my wish! "},{"Title":"You can still enjoy the special effects if not the plot","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not every movie has to have a riveting plot - despite all the criticism, I still enjoyed the movie for its special effects. "}{"Title":"lighten up!","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have read comments of others and really don't understand why people hated this movie so much. Yes, the plot was predictable, the characters one-dimensional, and the love story cheesy. No, the acting was not first-rate (though this was the fault of the script not the actors), but I have seen worse in other action movies (check out the god-awful Godzilla if you can stand it). Come on, people, this is an *action* movie! It's not *supposed* to be good art! It's a disaster movie that promises thrills and great SFX, and does more than delivers. The tornado sequences are believable, terrifying--and beautiful. If you want a great love story, see The English Patient. If you want a social commentary, see The Last Days of Disco. If you want well-developed characters, *don't* see an action picture! The main character, of course, is the tornado. The various plot devices are there as a backdrop. I think people are taking it all too seriously. Lighten up and just try to enjoy it. At least  Twister isn't gory or steeped in gratuitous violence, like Independence Day, a movie I totally despised. It's just a good adventure movie with above-average SFX. "},{"Title":"It wasn't that bad.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I liked it. It was fun to watch the effects and the story wasn't as bad as you people say. "},{"Title":"The stale popcorn in the theater was better","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, I guess a half-billion $$$ in worldwide gross means a lot of people saw this movie -- once.Anybody who lives in Tornado Alley would just roll their eyes at this clunker. The set-ups are so absurd that they would be laughable if they weren't so very dumb.At the time the movie was released, the joke in Dallas was $30 million in special effects trying to find a plot. The last straw for me -- and yes, I stayed to the bitter end -- was the final F-5. And this is a mega spoiler.The guy and gal couldn't get out of the way of the twister so they tied themselves to a pole, in a barn I recall. The high winds sent barn things all around them, which they dodged. Then, the tornado struck the building, it was sucked and torn apart, and they could look way up into the heart of the funnel cloud. And, of course, they both survived to live happily ever after.Oh, get real! Nobody could survive an F-5 under those circumstances. And if one did pass either through them or close by, they'd be cut to shreds by all the debris being hurled around by those ultra-high winds. (In Texas, a common soda straw has been pictured driven through a two-by-four board after being in the path of a lesser-force twister.)If you really want to see this movie, get some very stale and gummy popcorn it will keep you focused on other things than what's on the screen. "},{"Title":"People Have Missed The Point. It's Only Meant To Be Popcorn Fun.","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm surprised that I actually did just watch this movie today. I had seen it countless times when I was younger courtesy of my Geography class and I always thought that I wouldn't bother viewing it again. However, something drew me to it and I ended up viewing Twister again. I can't make any more conclusions besides the ones I had already drawn from previous viewings and I know that this movie has been criticized for an over-reliance on effects and a lacking of substance. I'd mostly agree to this, but I don't really see any enormous issues in it. It's merely designed to be a piece of fun and that it certainly is.The story goes as follows. Bill Harding is a TV Weatherman looking for his distant wife, Jo with the intention of having her sign divorce papers so he can marry his girlfriend, Melissa. Upon meeting with her, he is caught up in an investigation of a series of tornadoes across the state of Oklahoma involving revolutionary equipment that is being used to study tornadoes in a way that has never been possible. The movie then explores a series of violent tornadoes as well as the realization that Bill and Jo have about their relationship.Even though the film was made in 1996 and they may be regarded as outdated by today's standards, I think that the special effects in Twister are wonderful. It is true that there is an over-reliance on them and they certainly do get in the way of plot however I do admit that they were indeed really fun to watch and the action scenes never really felt drawn out to me (a mistake that seems to be very common in poorer action films).The acting is alright. Bill Paxton's performance is rather flat. Helen Hunt I feel did a good job and her character, Jo is certainly the most fleshed out character in the movie. Jamie Gertz was fine as Melissa, but the character has very little purpose and it wouldn't make a huge difference if she was cut out altogether. Cary Elwes' performance as Jonas isn't too great as his accent isn't very strong and its hard to indicate what specific accent he's trying to put on. It sounds very Southern, but there's a mixture of something else in there. Besides these, who couldn't love the irritating yet entertaining character, Dusty, played by Philip Seymour Hoffman. The guy is so unusual and the reasons for his apeish behaviour is totally unexplained, but what can I say? He's great comedic relief.This film has been heavily criticized for its lack of character and story development as well as an over-reliance on special effects being the only reason it was such a huge hit back in 1996. These complaints are indeed true, but I feel that people overestimated what the film would be like based on the budget and hence came out disappointed. People need to learn to not believe the hype when it comes to profits. They are no indicator for quality. Despite this, it's still a really fun movie.Twister isn't perfect and is faulted, sometimes greatly so. However it does pass as a nice piece of action filmmaking that you'd enjoy for 100 minutes provided that you lighten up and prepare to just have fun and not expect something stimulating for the brain. It's a great movie and I'm standing by my opinion.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!!","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I would give this movie a 9, but I have to save that for the BEST films. This is an action movie and is ... HELLO ... FICTIONAL!!!! The bad reviews and complaints about this movie are largely undeserved. Too many are expecting too much. I would guess that many who would say they loved E.T. would give this film a bad rating. I am using E.T. as an example, because both are fictional and deal with the impossible.The scenes are sensationalized ... but this is Hollywood where most movies are made to be SENSATIONAL and not boring. Sure these things would never happen in REAL LIFE ... but this is, after all, a movie. Not a documentary or drama, but an action, borderline fantasy movie. Like most disaster movies, the special effects are over the top and unbelievable ... but some pretty good eye candy ...I liked it from start to finish and thought the story line was great. Helen Hunt is awesome and Bill Paxton gives a pretty good performance as well. There are a few glitches that passed the final cut, but not enough to lower the rating. Watch and enjoy it for what it IS ... forget what it is NOT. "},{"Title":"not good... at all","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie on TV the other day. Oh my God. This movie is bad. Not terrible, but bad. I don't want to see ex's fighting i want tornadoes blowing thing up. I think the worst scene is where a tornado demolishes a drive-in showing a much better movie (the shining). Is it trying to say that the shining is a bad movie and needs to be destroyed? If so, then that destroys most of the movies credibility right there, but thats just nitpicking that scene isn't a huge deal. The biggest problem i had was (as i mentioned before) the ex couple arguing. We get it! They're gonna get back together! Jeez it couldn't be any more cliché or predictable. Also, how can they be in the middle of an F5 twister and survive without any scratches or bruises by clinging onto a pipe? How does that work? "},{"Title":"It's a wonder of nature baby!","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" How is it that Twister got such bad reviews? Being a movie in the 1990s, more specifically 1996, it has outstanding graphics. The 1990s was a time when movie graphics were still improving. Every tornado movie I have seen is complete crap. They don't put any effort into making them and the graphics are horrible. Twister, on the other hand, is the complete opposite of that. The best tornado film I have ever seen. The casting is great, I love all the actors they have put together in this film. I would be on Jo and Bill's team any day, especially since Dusty is in it. The storyline is great and they picked a great spot to film the movie. It takes place in Oklahoma but was actually filmed in Iowa. Who knew Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt would make a great team together.I don't know why it is that good movies get bad reviews, 1990 classics such as Twister, Titanic and Armageddon. Critics can't tell the difference between a good movie and a bad movie. They watch it once, write a review and then advise people not to waste money on it if it's no good. Well, I'll tell you that people have their own opinions and if they happen to like the movie then they like it. Every single person is different and have their own views on a movie. Twister just happens to be one of the best movies ever made, and one of the only movies I really enjoy. I watch it all the time and each time never seems to bore me for one minute.My interest for tornadoes started with this movie and since then I have learned so much about real life tornadoes in shows like Storm Chasers and Angry Planet. I have a passion for tornadoes and would love to study them in a future career. The end of Twister is unbelievable, one of the best scenes in movie history. The huge F5 tornado, also aka. The Finger of God. The scene when Jo and Bill come outside of the barn and see this huge tornado behind them is so cool. It always gives me the chills. The graphics couldn't get any better. It's perfect. I give credit to whoever did the graphics.Jan De Bont needs to get some facts straight about tornadoes before approaching it into a movie but he did do a really good job and with the help of Steven Spielberg, it makes Twister so much better.Twister is my second favorite movie (after Titanic) and have seen it countless numbers of times, I've completely lost track. One of the best movies ever made. "},{"Title":"I Think We're In Kansas, Toto","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Good Things *Great special effects. *Gripping suspense and action. *Good cast of characters. *Pretty good story. *Good, fun dialogue. *Some good music. The Bad Things *Focus on character drama sometimes overwhelms other story elements. On the surface, this is a good, fun, exciting film. The special effects will certainly please anybody who likes special effects. Good comedy, witty dialogue, and a gripping story with lots of conflicts makes the movie even more watchable. At its core, this is also a good drama about an estranged couple trying to get back together. At times, this drama makes the film a little tedious. Otherwise, it is great fun, and would recommend it to anybody who likes action, movies about scientists, and movies about natural disasters. "},{"Title":"Fairly entertaining, but definitely hasn't aged well...","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  TWISTER was a whole let better when I first saw it back in May 1996... Most movies just naturally play better on the big screen, with an expensive sound system and an excited audience, and TWISTER just isn't the same experience as it was eight years ago.  The first and most obvious problem is that an effects-driven movie just isn't made for the small screen, so those amazing twisters aren't nearly as scary without the theater experience. Another problem with the CGI (admittedly ground-breaking for its time) is that it's rather commonplace now. How did a movie like TWISTER, with paper-thin characters and almost zero plot, make over $240 million?  You need to remember that 95/96 was the period when CGI first became readily available and abundant, to all of the major studios. This was the period when otherwise mediocre films like ID4 and ERASER made huge grosses on the stregth of special effecs that couldn't have been imagined before CGI... CGI was still fresh and exciting.  Eight years later, however, CGI is everywhere, so over-stuffed and jam-packed into garbage like THE MUMMY and VAN HELSING that these so-called effects just aren't that special anymore.  And since these effects were pretty much the whole show in TWISTER, 2004 audiences won't be all that impressed... "},{"Title":"Unintentionally hilarious","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister's special effects are very good. That they've stood the test of time and are still fun to watch even thirteen years later is a testament to how mind-blowing they must have been in 1996. And the film's treatment of Oklahoma and Oklahomans is surprisingly kind; while the storm-chasers are portrayed as lunatics, the locals are not reduced to redneck caricatures, as is so often the case when Hollywood depicts people from the heartland.But.Everything else about this movie is dismal, from the melodramatic overacting to the cheesy dialogue to the unbelievably stupid plot. The writing is tremendously bad, and nearly every line uttered in the film is an action movie cliché. The tornadoes growl like animals and have a knack for dissipating at just the right moments. Meanwhile, humans survive storms of debris and high winds without a scratch. The plot is formulaic and predictable; if you don't know who's going to die or what's going to happen at the end, you've never seen an action film.If you have a thing for bad movies, Twister is a gem. If you're looking for a riveting natural disaster story, skip it. "}{"Title":"Wow, what a bad movie","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   OK, fine, the special effects were nice, but since when do special effects make a movie? When did it become OK in Hollywood to make movies that do not need a script that makes any sense, decent acting or characters you care about at all? Hell, even the science of the film was ridiculous.  Abysmal film making at it's best. Crichton, as a highly educated man, should be ashamed to have his name associated with this trash. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The only thing separating the quality of the dialogue from this absolute piece of garbage and Adam Sandler's Going Overboard is that Adam Sandler isn't in Twister. How, as a reasonably respected actor do you let some nerd with a take-1 chalkboard tell you to speak this drivel into a microphone? Whoever the dude was who said this deserves a 10 or 11 and whined why do the critics hate every movie I love? deserves to have 10 or 11 UFC lightweights break each of his limbs. Anybody who laughs at this poorly written, 21st century safe, accessible sitcom dialogue is a complete RUBE whose opinions on film are worthless. I would watch this again only if the alternative was a guillotine death. Please go to the local university and audit a film class, you complete geese. "},{"Title":"Feeble story and acting, but great FX","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is your typical mindless summer film; an entire fireworks display of special FX with flimsy acting, B-grade dialogue, and crayon-written storylines. If you can avoid paying attention to the characters (all of them have to be zany cartoons), and cover your ears whenever they decide to open up their mouths and utter things to obscene to be heard, this can actually eb a subpar movie.4/10 "},{"Title":"He's in it for the science&#133;","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is completely absurd. It is a ridiculous love story set in 'tornado alley' in the Midwest. After reading some of the comments from my fellow 'reviewers' I see why this crapfest is rated so high. It is made to appeal to foreign markets and the young and/or stupid American market (a large market indeed).In my opinion, the release of Twister in 1996 marked a turning point in Hollywood. It became apparent to movie makers that it really didn't matter if the dialogue was brainless or the plot was full of holes. It didn't matter if the actors could act or the script was convincing. What mattered was how loud and violent a movie could be. We in America love our violence and it translates well into any language. Since foreign markets make up a large percentage of a film's profits, it just makes sense to create long action sequences with as little conversation (or plot) as possible. In fact, Twister would have been improved had there been no discourse at all &#150; just people fleeing from the hundreds of tornado's that terrorize the American Midwest everyday. I can't wait for Twister 2. Maybe Carmen Electra and Ashton Kutcher will be in it and there will be a lesbian subplot.In short, if you have a nice home theater with surround sound and would like to have your intelligence insulted, I recommend giving Twister a go. Otherwise stick to something cerebral like the recently remade Starsky & Hutch movie. Carmen Electra is in that and she kisses another woman. No corporate sell-outs here baby, it's all about the science.  "},{"Title":"Really stupid","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Unbelievable, hokey and downright stupid..  Wonder where I can get a truck that repairs itself like Christine, drive on its side up a stairway (the house WAS blown over, right?) and not be affected by 200 mph winds while dodging flying trees and semi trucks??This one rates as the second worst disaster film I have ever seen.  Only Volcano was a worse p.o.s.Who knows? Maybe I would have enjoyed it if I had been labotomized first.  "},{"Title":"Shouting match + Flying Cow = Awful Movie","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What is there in Twister besides Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton shouting at each other whilst driving around real fast for no particular purpose. How many dreadful movies like this can Steven Spielberg make before somebody notices the man has no talent past Raiders of the Lost Ark.Yeah, the flying cow was good for a momentary chuckle; but how about putting some character direction, plot, purpose, et cetera into each and every movie. We took the trouble to drive the extra miles to see this one at Washington DC's finest theater, the Uptown, with their huge curved screen and $20,000 super sound system; but.....Twister doesn't deserve ten lines of comment. How many ways can a writer describe an empty barrel? An empty movie? "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was truly a horrid example of Hollywood trying to make a blockbuster without heart or attention to storyline. Every moment of this film is an effort toward making a spectacular, and not a moment is spent making film. Highlights include, a cow getting swept past a truck that is not swept up by the same wind, evil storm chasers in black trucks (yes, evil and in black trucks) who are in it for the money (what money?!??!), and a silly scene where apparently, you can run inches ahead of an F5 tornado (The Finger of God)and suffer no harm. The writers make tornadoes into intelligent evil entities bent on destroying and killing...instead of just violent weather that is hard to predict. One scene has our heroes chased by a tornado, seemingly out to get them in an almost Three Stooges-type sequence where nothing goes right in their efforts to escape. It's silly, contrived, and the special effects aren't enough to make this watchable (I've no idea how people can enjoy a movie only for it's special effects). Trucks get thrown, houses explode, and cows float by...producers thought this would be enough for the mindless masses to fork over $9 at the box office. I was one of the suckers that did! Unless you are mindless, don't watch. "},{"Title":"The worst dialog and acting of any movie ever.","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First the good news the special effects for the tornado scenes are fun to watch. That is the end of the good news.Now the bad news the other ingredients of this half-baked film suck more than any F5 tornado ever could. The dialog is so bad, it's painful to listen to. And the acting -- from the lead actors to the supporting cast -- is so bad that I am embarrassed FOR them.How any of the lead actors were ever hired to do other films is beyond me. Yeah, they had a terrible script to begin with but unless the director was holding their children as hostage in order to coerce the alternatingly wooden and over-acting. I can only hope that they were victims of poor final editing. Maybe they thought the lame dialog )(in EVERY scene) would be patched together in some sort of coherent fashion. But noooooooo. The editing not only failed to help the dialog, it made it even worse. Way to many unnecessary close-ups added emphasis to the goofy dialog.By the way, both the character of Dustin/Dusty and the supporting actor who played him should have been sliced and left to die on the cutting room floor. The fact that HE ever went on to make other films makes me want to put my left shoe up for an audition against him.If the tornado effects weren't so good, the film would be entirely unbearable. The plot is pathetic. The dialog is lame. And the acting is mind-numbingly poor.Friends don't let friends rent this movie -- or even view it for free on television! "},{"Title":"Make the bad man go away.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  ﻿This is the only movie where I actually became physically sick listening to the dialogue of this stupid film.  Some of these people with the exception of Alan Ruck, must have graduated from the Dolph Lundgrend School of Acting.  The plot had so many holes in it that I could have drank wine while watching the movie because I really enjoy cheese with my wine.Since I live in Kansas, I have a pretty good familiarity with tornadoes, and you can't tell me that you can stand as close as they were to the tornado, especially an F5, and not get blown away and seriously injured.  The closest you could ever get to an F5 and survive is the F5 button on your computer keyboard.  I thought I was going to die watching this piece of.........If  you want to watch a movie with a tornado or something similar to it, I suggest watching the Wizard of Oz.  At least Dorothy got knocked around a little in that movie. "},{"Title":"idiotic, boring, silly, corny, lousy acting, nothing new","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  All the hype that surrounded this garbage should be heaped upon the head of the person who submitted this piffle to the general public. Heaped upon his head after being carved in granite that is. A more juvenile movie would be hard to imagine, but I suppose the folks in Hollywood can do it if anyone can. I almost became convinced while watching this film? that the twister had more brains than any of the characters; they didn't show me much in the way of anything except their immaterial love spats and divorce decrees. Gad, what shallow, immature dialogue. I particularly disliked the ending. The 2 heroes chortle! would never have survived the funnel had it gone directly over them as depicted, nor can a tornado suck a truck up its spout with such ease. In fact, it cannot be done at all. Maybe the producers of this thing expected us braindead audience types not to notice the failing of their 'big hit' because we would be so taken with the beauty of Helen Hunt as Santa would say Ho Ho Ho. What a bomb!  "}{"Title":"Why?","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watching this film is genuinely one of the worst things that has ever happened to me. I was warned but went ahead and did it. I could spend hours explaining why this is so bad in almost every possible way, but can't be bothered. Its the films fault. It has actually sucked all meaning out of my life. Why would a film do this? I mean Mac and me was bad, as was Howard the duck, but this is one of those films that was marginally successful. I don't like giving films a 1 out of 10, just as I'm reluctant to give a film a 10 out of 10, but this film should be quarantined it is so bad. It is a danger to people with high blood pressure or who may be suicidal. There should be a health warning. People should be made aware that swine flu is nothing compared to this. I even had that novovirus thing and that was fun compared to this. "},{"Title":"a great movie","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie. I was very young when it came out, and saw it in theatre's with my parents. I became scared of tornadoes and wanted to be a storm chaser. Well scared from the beginning part. There are some parts that might be a little unrealistic, only a few however. I thought the story line was good, and I thought the character development was a little above average. I felt who I liked, and learned how they would act in a situation. I don't know why people are saying this is such a poor movie. The special effects are quite good still, for today's standards. I consider this a classic because I know this for a fact If anyone was ever to make another tornado movie, it would be much more unrealistic than this, I'm sure of that. Twister is balanced with action and plot. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did if you watch. "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is certainly an entertaining movie. I see many bad reviews here but as I said with many blockbuster movies, it's just a summer popcorn movie. People need to lower their expectations. What attracted me to this movie was my fascination of weather and more importantly, tornadoes.This is about a husband and wife whom are on the brink of divorce. The husband is about to tie the knot with his girlfriend. However they were thrown into the midst of deadly tornadoes and now their biggest worry is survival.The acting isn't bad. They don't have A-list actors here. But I liked the performance of Bill Paxton.Overall, this is a fun movie filled with great special effects. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Why do People give this movie bad comments?","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First off, I watched this movie yesterday and I really liked it. The effects are very, very good and the story is too. I also think that Bill Paxton is a great actor and he is great in Twister. This movie has a lot of negative comments, but in my opinion its a good film. Don't let people put you off this film because you might enjoy it like I did. I did think though that the script wasn't that good. I liked the story, but the script was lazy. It's still a good movie though and well worth watching.I had to buy it on DVD because I really liked it. £7.00 was a bit of a rip-off, but I couldn't resist. I'm gonna watch it tonight again with a nice can of coke.Stay tuned for more reviews! "},{"Title":"Respect the Wind","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For every one problem with Twister, there are approximately two positives. It was predictable, but original (how many feature length films involve tornadoes throughout?) and exciting. It had clichéd characters, but it had very good acting (Hunt) and believable actions. It had the typical love triangle you'll see in the majority of disaster movies but it put a, well, twist that it was finally the girl (Hunt) chasing the boy (Paxton.) &#x96; That last one I loved the most. FINALLY, the girl was at fault as males always seem to be the wrong ones in movies.I absolutely suspended my disbelief (and knowledge as I'm not a storm chaser, nor have little to zero knowledge on the subject) for Twister. I just sat back and enjoyed, as I do for a lot of disaster movies. (SEE Dante's Peak.) It helps that Hunt's performance was convincing, had depth and interesting. Also, the CGI was well done (for the most part) and believable. Again, I'm not a storm chaser or meteorologist, so I have no idea how many they would just stumble upon, though I would have my suspicions it seriously wouldn't be this many. (ADD dramatic effect.)Bill (Paxton) left his storm chasing life, crew and wife, Jo (Hunt) a while back and (literally) settled for a quieter weatherman's life with therapist, Dr. Reeves (Gertz.) It's barely a coincidence that he shows up with the divorce papers for Jo who decisively left a signature blank on the last page at the peak of the largest (to date) outbreak of tornadoes. Part chasing her with Dr. Reeves in tow, part chasing the twisters is pretty much the rest of the drama. (Aside from him learning where he needs to be, Jo getting over childhood fears and a loved one & dog in trouble, that is.) They moved fairly quickly onto what the movie really drew the audiences in, obviously multiple twisters and more obviously, they got progressively worse, or F1-F5s, until the climax.To me, despite the fact it's hard to believe all these storms were perfectly places all but directly in their paths, it's a lot more believable than all the preposterous and simultaneous events in 2012 and The Day After Tomorrow. It's just a fun show. They throw in comedy (Cow!) and fully uses the always impressive character actor, Phillip Seymour Hoffman. Throw in a very good score and great soundtrack, you'll have a great time. (Love Van Halen's Humans Being, Goo Goo Dolls's Long Way Down and Alison Krause's Moments Like This.) Definitely, a must see. "},{"Title":"Cliché, stupid, has some boring moments, but I like it","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There really isn't much point in me reviewing this, I'm the guy who gave good reviews to 2012 and Godzilla 1998, so I guess it's pretty obvious that I would like Twister. Not many people really hate this movie with a passion, they just found it kind of stupid or boring. This movie was actually the first movie I have saw on the big screen. I was three and don't remember it, so I'm just hoping my dad didn't lie to me, so because it was my first big screen movie, I may be a little biased.Basically every problem with this movie can be summed upped with two things. The script is so ridicuously cliché, with it's generic characters and romance, and it's scientifically inaccurate, but not isultingly inaccurate. Also it can be boring in a few places, not too many, but the disaster scenes are a little tame compared to disaster scenes we see today.But the special effects actually hold up pretty well. I say that the twisters in this movie actually look better than the twisters in the Day after Tomorrow. The acting is really good for this kind of movie, and make some really likable characters, as generic as they are. Dusty's pretty funny, I guess it's hard not to like someone who's crazy over tornadoes. The villain is such a douchebag that you can't wait for him to get his due. But the one thing I really liked is that the movie didn't villify Melissa. Think about it, they could have made her a horrible person that hated every member of the team, and maybe even gave away secrets to Jonas, but she didn't.Twister is another example of a flawed but fun disaster movie. Yes it's cliché, yes it's stupid, but it's fun. I know I say that a lot, but this really does have it's moments. "},{"Title":"A very watchable hokey action film","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is not high cinematic art. It was intended to be a summer blockbuster put your brain on hold action film when it was released in 1996, and that is what it was and still is. Its competition at the time was Independence Day, which is an unwatchable hokey movie, and this movie is better than that film in that it is a watchable hokey movie. Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton play recently divorced storm chasers Jo and Bill Harding whose relationship was pulled apart by Jo's obsession with chasing tornadoes to the exclusion of wanting any kind of normal family life by Bill's definition. Bill has moved on and found a more conventional girl that he plans to marry (Jami Gertz). However, before he can move on, Bill needs Jo to sign some papers. He meets her in the field as she and her team from the university plan a day of chasing tornadoes through Oklahoma. Before they can conclude their business a storm calls the team to the chase, and Bill is drawn into the chase by necessity but kept there by his latent passion - for storm-chasing and maybe even for the marriage he left behind. The film features some great special effects, fast-paced action, and cringingly obvious dialog with the subtlety of a sledgehammer. However if you're just in the mood for an action-packed film with a feel-good after effect, this movie fits the bill.The current rating of 6/10 is probably correct if you are comparing Twister with Casablanca. If you judge it as an action film against other action films, I'd say it's probably more of a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Slightly Above Average","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This seemed to be a pretty run of the mill disaster movie when it came out in 1996. Looking back, I suppose it can be considered to be pretty descent, but is was definitely nothing special. It did have exciting parts and the suspense at times is what pushed it from being a seven as opposed to a six for me. I thought the device being named dorothy was rather cute. However, when I first saw this as a kid, I wished that instead of them all being named dorothy they named each one a separate Wizard of Oz character. The special effects were quite good and would probably be the most appealing part of the movie. As far as a movie about tornado chasers goes, they managed to make it more interesting than I thought a movie on said subject might be able to be. I can't say that I am a Helen Hunt fan and wished they might have used someone else, but that is a very minor observation.This movie is good for a rainy day with nothing to do. I just wish I could remember if there was a cow that was flying through the air at one point or if I'm getting my wires crossed with Earthworm Jim. "},{"Title":"The JURASSIC PARK of weather movies.","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My Take The characters and plot are routine, but the special effects will blow you away.If memory serves me correctly, there were not disaster movies about tornadoes back in the 1970's. So I guess the movie-going audiences are due for a disaster movie about one of nature's deadliest disasters. TWISTER is that movie. It isn't exactly strong in the plot department and neither does it contain convincing characters, but with some neat CGI special effects popularized by JURASSIC PARK and some thrilling action scenes, TWISTER became one of the biggest hits of the 90's, and it's not so hard to see how fun this movie is.The plot is exactly what you've come to expect from a screenplay co-written by Michael Crichton. The man wrote the novel JURASSIC PARK, along with the film's screenplay, so there really isn't any meat on the bones. Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton is a bunch of tornado chasers and a husband-and-wife team on the verge of divorce. But it's really all about the tornadoes. They chase them for the greater majority of the film so they can insert an advanced tornado measuring device that will make a more advanced warning system for upcoming disasters. Once again, Crichton has more interest in developing his neat gizmos than he does with his characters. The subplot involving Paxton trying to divorce ex-wife Hunt so he can marry his grating girlfriend Jami Gertz is not more than just filler.But all this doesn't matter. The film is, above all, fun and that's what made it such a huge hit. The effects are still awesome and the action scenes will take your breath away the first time you see it, and maybe a few viewings later. Director Jan DeBont directed SPEED, and he brings the same amount of skillfulness and thrills to TWISTER. While it's not as good as that movie, both films boast just about the same elements You've seen it all before, but not with the same amount of thrills and excitement. For pure adrenaline-pumping action, TWISTER is the goods.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"They Obviously Haven't Experienced The Weather in The U.K.!","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is a enjoyable, well-made, action flick that highlights the devastating power of mother- nature. What I like about the film is the way it builds up like a National Geographic documentary, through the increasing power of Tornados, culminating in a thrilling climax with the big bad mo-fo F5 twister. The script throws in the typical back story, melodrama and romantic sub plot, with a vast array of pretty mental characters who love chasing tornado's, but the human side of the film is generally undermined by some great special effects and a general sense of awe.7/10 "}{"Title":"Why are people bashing a good movie like this?","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Why such the high rating? because this is a GOOD movie. Saw this when I was only 6 years old, and I was hooked ever since. The CG effects in this movie are very impressive because the technology wasn't as sufficient as they are now, but people take them for granted. There have been other tornado movie's made, that don't even come CLOSE to looking like these tornadoes. The acting wasn't bad at all in my opinion; and the characters are just a couple of wacky storm chasers enjoying what they do, that's all! I hate how people criticize these little factors; for crying out loud just enjoy a movie for what it is! sheesh! I know everyone has their opinion and that's fine, but when someone makes it their life to obsess over every little mistakes that they find, they ruin a good movie to watch. Just enjoy it ) "},{"Title":"This Twister will blow you away","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This special effects extravaganza will blow you away. Yes Twister's plot lacks depth, foundation and any real substance, but director Jan De Bont of all people is well aware of this fact, and so concentrates on the well constructed action sequences and the talents of Industrial Light and Magic, who have produced some spectacular computer animated effects.The story concerns a group of thrill seekers who chase tornadoes for the pure adrenalin rush, and the science of course. Ex-chaser Bill (Bill Paxton) returns to Tornado Alley in Oklahoma to finalise his recent divorce form Jo (Helen Hunt) and gets caught up in the excitement of the hunt once again.Performances from the two leads are neither here nor there (support likewise), but no classic thesping is really required. Cary Elwes plays another one dimensional bad guy, as he did in the mediocre Days of Thunder The music is lively and the cinematography (form Jack N. Green) is fast paced and eye-catching, both of course taking second place to the awesome effects.De Bont is no miser when it comes to entertainment value (eg Speed), and so we get plenty of Twister action, each encounter being bigger and more exciting than the last. If visual brilliance is what you're looking for, then this film, a pure knockout, is exactly what the doctor ordered. Please endeavour to see this at the movies, or otherwise don't bother.Saturday, July 6, 1996 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"Good!","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Behold, I knew him. I now had the confirmation of this film, film catastrophic not have success, do not have a broad appeal. Or they are one possible reality or frightened because so as not pleasure. One thing is certain their judgment always revolves around enough. The 6-5.9 towards these films is required. A spectacular movie, one of the first films to have so garish special effects. When I saw him for the first volts I liked a lot, but really beautiful technology now promises a lot. For that period the film was a true spectacle as they were increasingly away from uncouth special effects 80s. By the'90s the technology progresses and comes this new line of films. "},{"Title":"It's Not About Tornadoes - It's About Fear","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What do you do when faced with what you fear? Death, defeat, the unknown, commitment, danger, the gaping maw of nature's wrath, Cary Elwes and his corporate sponsors...and sure, tornadoes, if you want to be all surface about it. But really, Twister is about fear, and how people choose to deal with it. The uptight girlfriend flees, while the weatherman can't resist his past life as tornado chaser, and lover of the heroine, tornado-obsessed Helen Hunt, who has formed her life around trying to make sure that no other little girls will have to live in fear of their father getting sucked away while he tries to hold the storm cellar door closed.To do this, she forms a motley crew of character actors (Twister does for the motley tech crew what Die Hard did for the action hero) who are as crazy and thrill-obsessed as her, drives away her dirt-smelling Bill Paxton husband and then steals him back from panicky reproductive therapist Jamie Gertz, drives multiple trucks into the heart of a tornado, and relives the formative experience of her life repeatedly in the quest to finally kick nature in the cojones.The scientific accuracy of the tornadoes is completely irrelevant - they aren't real-life tornadoes, they are a symbol for the ultimate threat, the unknowable void. Do tornadoes work just like they do in the movie? I don't know - most of the tornadoes I've seen up close are in my imagination, or as portrayed by someone else's. And that's the point of tornadoes in Twister, or the disaster in any natural disaster movie. These are the ultimate in devastation - the finger of God, as said in the movie - and as such they represent our fear of being at our weakest and most vulnerable state. (Case in point Helen' Hunt's character, young version.) I think this theme is executed fairly well considering that it's in the context of a big-budget effects thriller. Audiences may not be thinking all this stuff over - and certainly the movie doesn't say much if any of this stuff explicitly - but I think they feel it, and that's why people feel drawn to watch this movie repeatedly, despite its essentially basic and predictable nature. Would you dive into the thrashing pit in order to help save others from future devastation? How would it feel to have Mother Nature literally rip your father from your life...and then continue to stalk those you know and love with the same threat? Would you fight back? Would you give your life to fight back? If you did, you'd be well-put to get yourself a classic nutty motley tech crew headed up by Philip Dusty Barnburner Seymour Hoffman. Though he probably fetches a slightly higher wage these days.The movie has imperfections - the movie's own physics seems cheated to the point of distraction a couple times, and there's at least one action from our heroes which seemed reckless toward others (I like to knock before I drive through someone's house.) But Twister manages to create an effectively threatening villain in an ambitious visual rendering of the classic man vs. nature story. I'm not sure what more we should hope to expect from a movie about tornadoes. "},{"Title":"Good Film Good Memories!!","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Good Film Good Memories!!I know that people have different views about movies, but I just can't imagine giving this movie anything below a 7. It is just a feel good, well done movie. No it is no where near an academy award winning film, but it doesn't have to be to be good. I can remember the day I got in line over an hour early at our new local theater to see it on the new giant screen stadium seating theater screen. I was so excited and it didn't disappoint me. I rate it a very good movie because it brings back good memories of good times in my life. It came on t.v. tonight and I just had to come to IMDb to check out some information, and I couldn't help but leave a post. And I would just say to people who are posting here who are taking this movie to serious and Criticizing it so much for technical failures and mistakes. Please lighten up, this was never meant to be a perfect film, its just a big summer Hollywood movie. Try and get more than that out of it and your just setting yourself up for disappointment. "},{"Title":"Special Effects Make the Movie","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is still a groundbreaking special effects extravaganza. The CGI tornadoes still look terrifyingly real and awesome. And they hit you about every ten minutes in the movie.Despite the merely mildly effective attempts at character development, mostly rambling from Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton (playing off each other as a recently divorced, storm-chasing couple who still have the hots for each other), the film works so well really because of its intense action scenes. From the dramatic opening, the film funnily moves through different levels of tornadoes as the drama is amped up.We see storms from F-1 all the way through the terrifying, mile-wide and jaw dropping F-5 twister at the climax, and the whole time you'll just be telling yourself I can't believe that's not real. How did they do that? It's so fun to watch today and still be amazed by this thriller. Edited nicely and moving at a fast pace, Twister is always a great, fun popcorn thriller. Watch for Philip Seymour Hoffman in a weird, comic relief role. "},{"Title":"Riding The Unfriendly Skies","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister may throw out a lot of scientific jargon about suck zones and flow asymmetries, but at its heart its thermodynamics have a lot more to do with popping popcorn than anything else. Which is fine, because on those terms it works very well.Jo Harding (Helen Hunt) leads a team of storm chasers across sun-drenched Oklahoma, trying to find the perfect tornado to track. Storm clouds of another kind arrive when her separated husband and tornado-chasing partner, Bill Harding (Bill Paxton), shows up with his fiancée and some divorce papers for Jo to sign. But Jo is as obsessed with keeping her marriage as she is with the tornadoes' terrible majesty.Twister is, before all else, a fast-moving disaster movie, squeezing in no less than five big tornado encounters and enough CGI to whet the folks at Industral Light & Magic for the Star Wars prequel trilogy. A decade ago, it was the first film released on DVD, and probably sold a lot of those newfangled gizmos with its amazing sound and visuals.But the film keeps us involved even during the quieter periods with excellent pacing by director Jan De Bont; a clever musical score that veers from Copeland to Wagner to late-period Van Halen depending on what's going on; and solid teamwork by Hunt and Paxton. Both can be off-putting in other roles, but here their intensity and humor blend just so to make us care about them, Hunt especially. You're all crazy, says the fiancée, Melissa (Jami Gertz), and she's the craziest one of all.Gertz does a good job, too, providing us with an outsider to channel the storm-chasers' world while doing double duty as comic relief. When you used to tell me you chased tornadoes, deep down I thought it was a metaphor, she tells Bill. You emphasize with Melissa rather than resent her, a sign of the film's depth.That depth is not always apparent. A rival storm chaser, Dr. Jonas Miller (Cary Elwes), is set up as an unconvincing villain. He went out and got himself a lot of corporate sponsors, is how Bill expresses his contempt, a weird point to make in a film that later asks us to believe that the only soda cans in Oklahoma have shiny Pepsi logos.But all is forgiven when the tornadoes come. Today those special effects still hold up, delivered as they are with style and verve. Watching a farm and silo literally dissolve into static while Jo and Bill race past in their jeep, the silo's roof flying off like a Frisbee and narrowly missing them, is a definite suck zone for us the audience.Did anyone else seeing this picture in 1996 realize that none of the principal cast members would be A-listers a decade later, with the exception of that annoying laughing guy with the freckles and red hair? Maybe it's that Oscar, or just being more used to his outsized performance style, but Philip Seymour Hoffman's Dusty doesn't seem as obnoxious as he did on the big screen Imminent rue-age! The Extreme!But the tornadoes remain every bit as powerful as I remember from the big screen, and they still make for a fine cinematic thrill ride. "},{"Title":"Great action film...","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister may not have done amazing critically, but let's be honest here - not many films have rides based on them built at Universal Studios. Twister has a ride there. And even though the ride is only there because Twister's huge explosions and scenes of chaos would work well at a theme park and frighten the nippers, it's still not a bad film. None of the science makes sense, and even though the invention that our main characters have built is interesting and easy to understand, it isn't the most exciting of things, and the end does get a bit silly - crushed up Coke cans being used as probes, anyone? But as I've said, most people care about it for the explosions only. And Twister sure delivers on the action. The start of the film is brilliantly intense (if a bit silly) - and is explained to us later in the film in a highly emotional scene - it has a link to one of the main characters. And that is the only scene which tries for sentimentality - which is good, because if the whole film tried to be a gory tear-fest (*cough*Saving Private Ryan*cough*), it would have been ruined. Character development is tried upon, but you won't really care about any of the characters by the end - you'll only want to see them going through hellish weather anyway. Some of it is breathtaking and fabulously done - take the scene where the main character scientist guy (I've forgotten his name - that's how much the action rams the characters out of your mind) and his girlfriend (forgotten her name too - and I'm not even sure if she's actually his girlfriend) have to drive straight through a house which has landed in the middle of the road (yes, it really did happen) - and some of it is a bit silly, like the cow flying through the air (this could happen in real life, but not with the results shown), but it is all action-packed and very fun, even if not that environmentally conscious. But things have changed a lot in the past 11 years. Although if this film is anything to go by, films haven't changed much. Twister may not be a masterpiece, but it will keep you entertained and will NEVER bore. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fun from the Midwest","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I happened to see this film in tornado alley. I watched it in Ponca City, Oklahoma in 1997. This is in Kay County, which gets more tornadoes than any other county in Oklahoma. I would venture that most of the audience has seen a tornado, spent a night in the cellar taking cover, or knew the story of the Memorial Day tornado that killed 22 or so in the next town to the west. I thought I would listen to the audience comments on the way out from these harden veterans. I didn't hear any complaints that the scenario was unrealistic. Most had seen similar events. Smoe even knew the locations in the film. Of particular interest was the oil tank in the farm in the opening scene. It was labeled Cross Oil Company, Ponca City OK. The ironic thing was that Cross was a town north on the railroad from Ponca City that was destroyed by a tornado. The story writing is pedestrian, but the action is good. I wasn't expecting Citizen Kane when I went in, so I wasn't disappointed at all. Its a good rental too. The twisters show off the bass on your home theater system quite well! "},{"Title":"Twister","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Is a fun movie and thats really all i can say ... however since i have to fill at least 10 lines i will continue. The effects are stunning even today, the acting from Helen hunt is good however bill Paxton isn't a very good actor. There is so background romance going on in this movie however that is forgettable. the effects make the romance small. This is also i extremely emotional movie with so very sad moments. Corny at points but still very enjoyable. The opening scene is brilliant and very scary. Brilliant cinematography as the landscape are amazing and one particular scene *spoiler ahead* where twin twisters are moving over water and join ... its so amazing.Ovwerall i give twister a massive 4/5 "}{"Title":"This flick has virtually everything","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Most of the flick focuses on the excitement and adventure of the risky job of storm chasing.....in addition to that being a romantic movie too about a storm chaser obsessed with twisters (Helen Hunt) and a meteorologist who is not as adventurous as she is.The big allusion in the movie seems to be the contraption called Dorothy, which was, of course, based on that main character of that name in the Wizard of Oz who got caught up in the tornado. The contraption was intended to be put into a path of a live tornado so when it goes up, it will open up hundreds of sensors that will be released and will detect several factors in the twister--that had never been done by meteorologists or scientists before. Overall, Dorothy's purpose is to find the exact wind speeds not only in the area of the tornado, but every single part of it---from the top to the bottom, and along the sides and the sides near it.Besides the Dorothy contraption, there were several other good parts in TwisterThe scene involving the tornado's near hit on a drive-in movie theater in the evening was also good. Looks like the winds depicted during the near-strike on the drive-in reached about 110 to 130 mph.The part when the red truck tries to outrun two F2 twisters---but can't escape them---and the truck gets embedded into the tornado---had good camera work as well. You actually hope that you never run into this situation--even as a storm chaser.The shocking part was the scene involving the fictional town of Wakita, which was purposely torn up to re-enact a damage a tornado of F3 to F4 can do. The storm-chasers come to Wakita, informed that a tornado was heading towards the town...but it was too late (the tornado went too fast for them)....and the only good thing was to save their friend in Wakita, Meg, a senior citizen--before her tornado-struck house caves in. And they do save her.The special effects re-enacting the dangerous twisters on land were exciting enough--from a gasoline truck on a road picked up in the air, twisting while in the air, and dropping onto the road in an exploding fireball---to a barn being broken up into thousands of flying splinters of wood.But overall, the final part when the last of the 4 Dorothy contraptions finally goes into the last twister brings the greatest release of Helen Hunt---a release in the form of great relief. "},{"Title":"Not Bad at All!","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As someone who has lived in Oklahoma and southern Kansas her entire life, I admittedly found myself watching this movie from the perspective of a person who has experienced countless severe thunderstorms and tornadoes (including the infamous May 3, 1999 F-5 that went through the OKC area.) Which means I found it difficult to watch without noticing the many inaccuracies and factual errors in the film. But for the person who is unfamiliar with the goings-on in Tornado Alley, and/or for someone who just wants to watch a lot of stuff being blown apart, you'll probably enjoy it more than I did. Overall, I think they did a good job with this movie though. If you can watch it with an open mind (I had a hard time doing that), you'll get more out of it. I do recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Silly but lovable","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After 'lurking' on the message boards for this movie and reading everyone's comments, I decided to comment on this movie.The plot is silly. There's no denying it; this movie was obviously made solely for the special effects and not for any sort of plot or character substance. The Helen Hunt - Bill Paxton - Jami Gertz love triangle was transparent from the beginning and probably should have been avoided, but hey. It makes for some funny dialog.The characters were outlines, but overall they were fine. Neither Bill Paxton nor Helen Hunt were particularly sympathetic or effective - the dialog didn't help much - but the supporting cast was decent, though they were trying too hard to make themselves interesting. Jami Gertz made the most of her role, as did Philip Seymour Hoffman.The dialog was useless, no denying that. It IS pretty fun to listen to, however. There's just something about a cheesy line like, Rabbit is good, Rabbit is wise. The movie could've done with a few less Sonofab****s from Bill Paxton, but whatever.The 'bad guy' element that was Jonas, Eddie, and the rest of the 'corporate-sponsored' black-van-driving rival team was completely unnecessary and was obviously put in at the last moment. I liked it, though, and my favorite characters from the movie ended up being Jonas and Eddie. So, no loss there. It's silly, but bearable.I love this movie. I've watched it so many times that I wore out the VHS version and had to buy the DVD. It's a really silly movie with stupid dialog and poor acting, but I can't help but like it. "},{"Title":"won't cure cancer, will entertain for 2 hours","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My My! What a lot of grouching about this film, saw it again on TV a while ago, it's a cartoon, Not every film can be or should be a Kurosawa masterpiece, Hunt is, as always, gorgeous, Paxton's great, Hoffman hams it up brilliantly in a small role, great effects, SO WHAT IF IT'S THE WRONG KIND OF CLOUD!!! it looks good and it's fun, and that's all it's supposed to be.Whenever you see something you know something about in a film, it's almost always wrong, Sean Connery's SAS character in The Rock has been in prison for 35 years, but can simply pick up and use a modern military rebreather and dive with US navy SEAL's ? NO WAY!! But I don't care. Clint Eastwood is leading a climb with George Kennedy in The Eiger Sanction all of a sudden, he's top roping, DOH!! But I don't care. Tom Cruise's tyres change from road to motocross and back again in M.I. 2 Oops! But I don't care. The skydiving in Point Break etc etc, but it's only a film, and for all it's faults, it's great entertainment. I could watch Twister any time. "},{"Title":"A decade later and the film still stands up as a very good romp","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It is an entertaining escapist film and does not present itself as anything but. Michael Creighton and Anne-Marie Martin did a great job of combining fact and fiction in a seamless script that flowed very nicely. A decade later and the film still stands up as a very good romp. They did not try to hide the clichés, which were numerous, and that only added to fun feel of the film. Jan de Bont did a great job of translating what was a two-dimensional script into a wonderful film that took the audience on a ride.The storm chasers were all odd-duck's but were a believable team. Many of us have met someone like one of them. The film is full of wonderful performances and featured a cast that would over the next ten years win numerous awards including some Oscars. Not since the Big Chill have I seen a film that had so many stars and rising stars. Cary Elwes, Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt were stars already, but Phillip Seymour Hoffman (Oscar for Capote) and Jamie Gertz were just starting to rise.In the end it is a great film to relax with, and in our family many of the lines are often quoted as they are still funny today. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film when I was about nine years old and loved it then and I still love it now. The special effects are extremely well-down and there are many a time when you're on the edge of your seat, watching each tornado getting more and more devastating as the film goes on. Even today, I can't get up once I have started the movie and wait until the credits start rolling before I do anything else.Personally, I find the acting to be well-done and even many of the minor characters were well-developed. There's plenty of humor and romance to keep you occupied as well. Overall, I say this is a fairly well-done movie. "},{"Title":"Campy Fun","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I know, the first question anyone who has seen this movie will ask is how I can possibly give a movie with barely written characters and no plot and 8 out of 10. Many other people will say that the only thing this movie had going for it was its special effects, good enough in '96 to garner an Oscar nomination, but far too commonplace now. The movie is silly, defying all laws of physics, human nature, and general probability. By many definitions, those things would make a movie crap.To which I would say, I have seen crap, and crap doesn't put a smile on my face ten years later.So what is it, then? I think what makes Twister different is that it fully embraces and enjoys its improbability. It is populated entirely by over-the-top personalities, who have interesting enough traits that, though not ever fully realized as characters, we still enjoy the time we spend with them. This could not be said for, say, Ethan Hunt, of Mission Impossible. (I still enjoy that franchise, but that is another article altogether. On a totally random sidenote, Philip Seymour Hoffman, villain in the most recent MI flick, appears in this film, which opened in direct competition to the first MI. It's good to see that Tom Cruise doesn't hold that kind of grudge, at least.) The entire movie is set up with a smile, so when it finally dives headlong into silliness, we realize that it is ultimately laughing at itself, and that it's okay to join in.And besides, any movie that understands the innate humor of cows can't be all bad. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie - but don't believe the science","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I work in Atmospheric Science - not only do I study tornadoes, but I chase them as well. There is very little reality in this movie. The science of Tornadoes is very complex and not yet well understood, but to the best of my knowledge, the premise of adding a giant chunk of debris to a tornado in the form of a can of sensors is not only dangerous, but with everything else in there, I don't think it's a good idea. And another interesting point, you can't identify an F5 before it happens - we rate storms based on their damage, not on Doppler wind speeds... And with all that, it's still a Cult classic among my friends - when we need a good laugh, we almost always bust out lines from this movie. So as long as you don't buy the science as reality (not that movies are ever a good reference for reality), it's good stuff. Plus, I do get a kick out of seeing Philip Seymour Hoffman playing Dusty - especially now that he has an Oscar! "},{"Title":"Best Tornado Movie Ever!!!","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" All I can say is this might always be the best movie about tornadoes in the history and future of movies, but what do I know. I once heard they were going to make a sequel, but i was then disappointed when I found out there wasn't going to be one. On the soundtrack my favorites song was Van Halen's 'Humans Being', recently I found out that the song's Dusty listens to in his bus aren't on the soundtrack. There's a museum in Wakita, OK (which is where the movie pretty much revolves around) dedicated to the movie. Here's a link http//www.twistercountry.com/1_twister_museum.htm. That's not all You can also visit the actual farm in which the final scenes of Twister was filmed, here's a link about it.http//eldora.net/twister/index.html "},{"Title":"Rattling good yarn","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" No point in navel-gazing about Twister. The plot could be summed up in a sentence and there are no shades of ambiguity anywhere. It's two hours of almost non-stop action, great special effects and bounding along at breakneck pace. Characters fall neatly into good (Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton), bad (Cary Elwes and his gang in their sinister black cavalcade) and wacky (Philip Seymour Hoffman and Jamie Gertz) and they all get their just desserts. The only twist (no pun intended) missing is Philip Seymour Hoffman hitting it off with Jamie Gertz - but then, we can't have everything, can we? So, revert back to your childhood and just enjoy. "}{"Title":"Good fun...great effects","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is a blast if you take it for what it's worth... A fun summer movie with (at the time) state of the art effects. There are some hysterical lines and it's got a great soundtrack. If you want Casablanca, this isn't the movie for you! Some cast highlights include Philip Seymour Hoffman in one of his earlier roles and Alan Ruck at his quirky best. The subject matter isn't that exciting, but who really wants to think in an action/comedy?? This is the most excited I've ever gotten about Oklahoma--as my wife said to me last night...why would anyone want to live there? Get out...keep your house!! Shine on...shine on! "},{"Title":"Windy science","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, I think this movie should have the banner Inspired by real events at the beginning. When you see this movie the first time you must grab something or hang on something for the wind not make you fly like a bird without control. Jan De Bont is with speed like a moron with a pencil. He likes it, but he doesn't know why was made for. He uses it with no sense, but thank god the result is not bad. The speed of this movie gives it a lot of rhythm, so you wont get sleep on your couch, even with the almost 2 hours of lenght. Is a great disaster movie, and it also has no problems with the predictable plot, because there is almost no plot. Twop groups of scientists want to drop a machine with sensors into a twister. That's it. The rest is Bruuuuuum!!! Ngiiiiiaaaaa!!!! KABOOM!!! It's over. And I find it really great, one of the best disaster movies even made. "},{"Title":"Not very realistic but fun to watch","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is one of those movies that you have to go to and suspend your disbelief for a little while. It opens with Bill Paxton and his bride-to-be going to visit his former wife and her tornado chasing crew. He is about to be divorced and needs her to sign the papers.Well it doesn't take long before Paxton's character is swept back up into the world of the tornado chasers. REAL tornado chasing is nothing like what these people do, but no one's gonna want to see a movie where they drive around bored for weeks until they find a live tornado. The movie takes the usual twists (har har) as the love tension between Hunt and Paxton builds back up.The really disappointing and stupid part of this movie is the ending. Trying to elude an F5 tornado (the strongest type of tornado known), they hide out in a rickety farmhouse and eventually end up tied by a leather belt to some well pipes that go deep underground. Paxton is correct, the pipes go deep in the ground and probably will not be ripped out. However, the flying debris and winds would've left two bloody belted-down meat sacks where Hunt and Paxton were once strapped in. They would've been shredded, no doubt.Other than the ridiculous ending (and the completely stupid addition of Cary Elwes as the bad tornado chaser - I mean, c'mon. A BAD guy? That's so STUPID) this movie will at least keep your attention. Popcorn fare, to be sure. "},{"Title":"Run!","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Written by Michael Crichton and directed by Jan De Bot, Twister has found itself the one true classic that all people love. Who doesn't love a little excitement along with some romance? William(Bill)Harding(Bill Paxton)has just returned to his old trumping grounds to get the divorce papers that his wife JoAnne(Jo)Thornton-Harding(Hellen Hunt) has. Instead he is drafted in for an entire day of twister hunting.Starring Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Cary Elwes, Jami Gertz and Lois Smith as(Meg Green).We follow in the footsteps of Bill and his wife Jo as they track and try to save the day. Keep an eye on the storms. The third is the bomb. But if you liked the third storm you'll love the fourth and fifth. "},{"Title":"Darkness of Nature","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wanna be blown away? If so, I have the perfect movie recommendation for you--Twister. Twister is full of hair raising scenes. Many of which left me breathless. To think there is a force out in the world that can do that much damage is unbelievable. Twister is a movie about a man named Bill (Bill Paxton) and a woman named Joe (Helen Hunt) who married and started an organization to begin tracking tornadoes. However, Bill and Joe separated, and she continued tracking with the remainder of her crew. Bill and Joe soon come face to face to sign the remaining divorce papers and begin a whole new adventure. Joe has created a machine known as Dorothy, one of Bill's earlier designs. Bill then decides to tag along with them for one day to see if the design works. Will Dorothy work or fail them all for good? Movies come and go, but I think Twister is here to stay. I cannot tell you how many times I have watched this movie. However, I can tell you that it has never lost my attention. The special effects were so realistic for its time. Twister is by far the best tornado movie I have ever seen. Twister is not only a movie of survival of the fittest, but also of a relationship struggling to be whole once more. I then ask the question, if I am able to survive the storm outside, can I survive the storm inside myself as well? "},{"Title":"I'm not back!!!","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  OK, I'm a Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt fan. So it is cheesy in parts. Philip Hoffman really steals the show with his wit. Sorry, Jami, that role wasn't very good for you. Lois Smith was, as always, excellent. Alan Ruck Rabbit was good, too--he's a quiet riot. Too bad Bill didn't have a naked part! All in all, not bad. What I did like was the interaction between Bill and Helen; I think a bit more of why they were divorcing would've been more entertaining and enlightening. What was the story between them before the film started? Bill is portrayed as a settled-down almost-divorced-almost married calm guy--or trying to change for the therapist. We gather later that he was not the patient, calm person we see--he's a hellraiser! Helen is still madly in love with him and hiding it badly. A better film for Bill buffs is A Bright Shining Lie. Check it out--you'll be surprised.  "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  i think Twister is a fantastic movie to watch. This movie was made in 1996, starring of course Bill Paxon and Helen Hunt. The movie is about a tornado heading for town and is about to destroy the town by destroying buildings (Houses, offices, and other types of buildings) Everyone has to get out of the town quick and fast before it will become too late. I first saw this movie a few years ago after it was released in 1996. The movie is certificated as a PG (Which stands for Parental Guidence)I give this movie 10 out of 10 because i think it's a good movie and i think it is better than the other movies which have tornados in them. If you like this, then i am sure you will like the movie Tornado which i think is another good movie. "},{"Title":"Twister TWIRLS as fast as STEVIE NICKS","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  All of us know what a tornado(twister) does it spins round and around as fast as singer/songwriter, Stevie Nicks! So it is only appropriate she composed a tune for the soundtrack of this great movie!Helen Hunt and Bill Paxon lead an all star cast about a married couple to be divorced, only their love for storm chasing tornados brings them back together.The love bit fits perfectly in this heart pounding action film.The Tornados look amazingly real. Top notch special effects. (The scene with the cow you'll never forget)The film keeps you on the edge of your seat the entire film, from the very start of the film.This film is a much deserved box office blockbuster, and even though this film is fantastic and grossed millions of dollars, thankfully, no sequals were made, as I  think some films should stand on there own.In the summer of 1996, this was my fave flick! Never boring, always exciting, with a theme(tornados) not previously used for a summer blockbuster intended flick.And the icing on the cake? The great soundtrack(Van Halen, Rusted root, Goo Goo Dolls) which is highlighted by the song, Twisted, written for this movie by rock legend, Ms. Stevie Nicks, and performed by Stevie Nicks her ex lover(and re-united Fleetwood Mac member), Mr. Lindsey Buckingham!!WOW! A GREAT movie and STEVIE NICKS as well! Like I said, this movie is a TWIRLING, rockin' good time!     "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Call me crazy, but i love this movie! I love anything that has to do weather and nature. When i first saw this movie back in 1996, i was hooked! The special effects are insane. There are some pretty funny parts and some good one liners. And yes, i love the soundtrack too. Sure there may be a few goofs here and there, and it may seem a little unrealistic in parts, but hey, arent all movies like that? I've seen this movie over 200 times. (Hey its 2003 and the movie came out in '96) Everytime i watch it, i find something new. If i didnt think it was intesne, funny, and full of cool special fx, why would i watch it that many times? I love it and i know you will too! "},{"Title":"Fantastic!  The One Movie to Watch Every Summer!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Anyone that likes Twister movies, or are big fans of Bill Paxton or Helen Hunt must see this movie.  It was great fun and to this day after watching it at least 30 times and will be more, I still enjoy it and look forward to seeing it.  It has also made my son not be so scared of Twisters and even wants to study them when grown up.So the acting was wonderful, the action great, Keeps you on your seat, and is the best Summer Movie around!!!Trace  "}{"Title":"A Bad Movie I Love","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister contains one of my favourite bits of bad movie dialogue,  ever, when Jami Gertz' character,  Dr. Melissa Reeves,  says to Bill Paxton's character (conveniently also named Bill),When you used to tell  me you chased tornados,  deep down I thought it was just a metaphorI cannot watch the movie (and I do watch it frequently),  without guffawing at that line everytime!They can't all be Citizen Kane,  you know? "},{"Title":"Good disaster movie.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie on a dark, windy night in Michigan and at the time I was only five. The movie scared the holy s*** out of me. What five year old kid wouldn't? So, now, a couple years later, TWISTER is still a guilty pleasure for me. Sure, the acting sucks, stupid dialogue, and an under-developed plot- but, there's been movie that suck worse (good example PYTHON). I like Philip Seymour Hoffman a lot too. So that might be why I like this a lot. This is probably the first movie that I ever saw him in. Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt play a couple on the brink of divorce who are teaming up to try to get a data research machine up into a tornado. The supporting cast includes Jami Gertz, Alan Ruck, Todd Field, Joey Slotnick, Cary Elwes, Jake Busey, Abraham Benrubi, Lois Smith, Sean Whalen and a bunch of others. I know that if you go to the 'goofs' page, you will see a number of goofs that have been written by a person who is quite obviously a tornado chaser himself, and he complains about a large number of things (even has the balls to complain about them stopping to eat in one scene). But, if you just think of it as an action movie, then you will enjoy yourself. The special effects are really good. The twisters are very well done. I know I am not the only person alive who likes this film, so just try not to notice any of the mistakes, and you will have a good time with this one. TWISTER 5/5. "},{"Title":"Perfect summer flick.  10/10","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister, not since Jaws has a blockbuster intended only to make money been so much more.  I know most people look at this movie as nothing more than a big dumb special effect movie, but I seem to get MUCH more out of it.  I adore this film.  Why is Twister something more then just your normal dumb summer movie?  Well there are a few reasons.  One of the main that comes to mind is how GORGEOUS this film is.  No other film I can think of so beautifully captures middle America as well as Twister.  There are over a hundred shots in this film that could easily be made into a postcard -- THEY ARE THAT GORGEOUS!  Take a look at the cast, when was the last time you had an Academy Award winning actress (Helen Hunt), an amazing character actor (Philip Seymour Hoffman), and a Academy Award nominated director (Todd Field) doing entertainment for dummies?  The acting in the picture is much better then this genre deserves.  Twister is a simple film that deals with the chaos of mother nature.  There are no real bad guys, and there are hardly any deaths (surprising because there are so many characters in the film).  This movie is able to keep the audiences attention in an old fashioned type of way.  Very exciting and smart, Twister is a one of kind picture.Perhaps the best Kubrick homage in any movie ever as well. "},{"Title":"Great special effects twisted into a cool movie","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  the special effects in this movie are fantastic.  I have never seen something that cool like that before.  The acting was excellent, I would expect it great from Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, and Cary Elwes.  This movie is an absolute gem of special effects and acting.  They had some not so cool parts but for the most part it was very good.Overall this movie is very enjoyable and had some very excellent special effects.  rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have to say that I'm a weather freak, I love to watch movies on torondoes. When I first saw this movie on a poster, I thought it was a horror flick. However, the moment I saw it I fell in love with it. I would recommend anyone who likes action and flying cows (lol) to go see it. It has to be the best Tornado movie of all time!!! "},{"Title":"Great if you realize what to expect.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Many people seem to complain about the plot of Twister. I am not sure what they were expecting. The movie was marketed as nothing more than a movie about tornadoes and that is what it was. Great effect and even better sound. I think they did a good, not great, job of putting in what little plot this subject could handle. Some of the acting was a bit off though. Carey Elwes seemed to have some strange voice, almost as if he was dubbed. Bill Paxton did great in some, I repeat some, of the scenes but was lacking in others. Helen Hunt did okay with the lones she had. The only other complaint acting wise was that there were too many side characters that the writers seemed to want the audience to bond with even though they were hardly a part of the film. Twister has great visual effects, great sound, and a decent story. It will not make you cry or change your outlook on storm chasers let alone make you want to be one. But if you take it as it is, a movie about storm chasers, that it exactly what you will get and you should enjoy it. Expecting some deep meaningfull plot from a movie called Twister is like expecting a Godzilla movie to be anything more than a monster trashing a city. "},{"Title":"Very Good!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was very action packed and realistic. I've Always Loved movies that Deal with hurricanes and tornadoes. I think it could have been better if they put more tornadoes in it. Overall I think it was very good!  "},{"Title":"Thank you JAN DE BONT...!!!","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is (to my opinion) one of the best movies ever. The special effects are outstanding and the plot is great too. Tornado's are great miracles of nature so it was only logical that someone would make a big movie about it. That someone was the Dutchman Jan de Bont and he did a fantastic job in doing just that. I couldn't have made it better myself...!!! "},{"Title":"Predictable.There's no twists in Twister","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you have any pre conceived ideas of what Twister is going to be like they are surely right. Good special affects, average acting and a lousy plot just about sums it up. I'm not saying Twister is bad because it isn't, its entertaining as long as you take it for what it is for,an action /disaster movie. Bill Paxton is not my favourite actor and he wouldn't have been my choice for the lead role in this (or anything come to think of it!)but Helen Hunt ads a little quality to cast which is refreshing. What is really amazing about the film is that throughout the scenes when they are near the twisters there is an amazing amount of debree flying around them , yet nobody ever get hit . Oh well i suppose it is Hollywood. Predictable stuff. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Don't even get me started!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't know who the critic was, or what they were thinking when they watched this movie and then gave it a bad grade. Obviously, they weren't. 'Twister' has it all. Action, drama, comedy. What more could you ask for? The first time I saw this movie back in 1996 when it first came out, I fell in love with it. And for four years after that I wanted to be meteorologist. Even though I don't want to be a meteorologist anymore, I still love the movie. No matter how many times you see the movie it still gets your adrenaline pumping. The instrumental score is awesome, it gives you goosebumps without even watching the action movie. O.K. so the acting isn't exactly of Oscar-caliber, but who cares? Watch it for the cinematography, the action, and the music. I would give the movie an A-. "}{"Title":"loved it","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  i loved Twister. i have had it since it came out and it never ceases to be entertaining. im a big tornado buff. if i ever happened to be in one i'd probably act like Jo did afterwards! this movie was so awesome. so what if the plot was nonexistent? im in it for the tornadoes!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is totally awesome, granted some of the scenes could have been prepared a little better, however, It was a great plot and I would love to see a Twister 2  I watch the movie so much I am waiting for the tape to wear out.  Bill Paxton and the cast were the best and Bill is definitely an excellent looking gentleman. "},{"Title":"Not the same on TV.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In theater, you really got caught up in this film's hugeness, but on TV something is really lost. Nevertheless, this movie is awesome, I loved it from the very start. Some people say there isn't enough plot, true, but if you don't take it to seriously you'll have a good time. "},{"Title":"brilliant!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the very few action films that can combine good quality action, a plot and some comedy.The special effects are classic especially at the chilling start.The acting is first rate all through the film and gives a good insight into the storm chasers hectic life. "},{"Title":"Sound and fury","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister is a disaster film that's one heck of a ride. Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton star, but they're (along with the rest of the cast) are upstaged by the impressive visual and sound effects. And that was enough for me to flat out recommend this rollercoaster of a movie. Director Jan De Bont delivered a one-two punch with his first two directing efforts (the first was the action hit Speed). Both movies are very exciting. Many people have complaned of a lack of plot in this movie. I do agree that the plot of Twister is weak when it comes to the human characters. But I didn't care. I just went along for the ride and had a great time. **** (out of four)   "},{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Possibly the best graphics ever produced in Hollywood.  Excellent cast with interesting story and terrific scenes. Despite PG-13 rating, a good movie for all ages. "},{"Title":"Twisted nostalgic fun!","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I like disaster movies when they are done right, and while Twister is no masterpiece it is a sort of guilty pleasure for me. I agree the script has its weak spots, the pace is rather pedestrian and the plot on the clichéd and unrealistic side of things. But Twister is nostalgic fun, with some decent direction and acting, complete with some pretty incredible special effects. The cinematography and scenery are also pretty good, and the score is effective.Overall, Twister is no masterpiece in any shape or form, but to me it was fun and a guilty pleasure in some ways. While it could have been better it could have been much worse as well. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"is there a -10?","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the first time I ever went to see a movie and felt ripped off by a canned script on top of a special effects charade. As someone who lived in tornado alley for 20 years and experienced first hand a tornado that destroyed 5000 homes, I'll spare you the comparison with reality - but it is doubtful anyone on the special effects team has actually experienced a live tornado. The Midwestern stereotypes are inane. Flying cows pass for comedy in this movie. I can't imagine what the script looked like before the script doctors got ahold of it, or maybe they're the ones who are responsible for this embarrassment. The director's weak resume - culminating in Tomb Raider 2 - speaks for itself.There is so little content to this movie, there is very little to say about it. See it if you like, but you've been warned. On your deathbed, you will be wishing you had the 90 minutes you wasted of your life back. "},{"Title":"Somewhat exciting but disappointing","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The special effects were kinda cool. But the acting and dialog were incredibly stupid. Jami Gertz is portrayed as a stupid idiot and the chaser crew was totally unprofessional. They came right out of One flew over the cuckoo's nest Hoffman's character was idiotic and not believable. He must have been behind on his rent to take this job or he needed exposure.Also they way Hunt and Paxton ran through those tornadoes was totally unbelievable. They would have been impaled beyond recognition and made into swiss cheese by all of the debris. Those tornadoes moved too slowly also. "},{"Title":"Can a natural disaster repair a marriage?","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If you think The Wizard of Oz is the one thing when it comes to tornadoes, THINK AGAIN! When two storm chasers go after twisters in the Midwest, your talking a serious adrenaline rush. The couple are in a middle of a divorce, and somehow Bill Harding(Bill Paxton) does show some care to his soon to be ex-wife Dr. Joy Harding(Helen Hunt). With a fiancé in tow(Jami Gertz) he tracks the storm down for the last time. However, they deal with a another group of storm chasers who only do it for the money, not the thrill. When the papers were signed, to me it looked liked a wasted effort, because Dr. Reeves(Jami Gertz) calls off everything The wedding, and the engagement! So was it a total loss? I DON'T THINK SO! They use the Dodge Ram truck to do the work, and the crash scene where it hit the flying house, and my father finds that unbelievable. A person gets killed like that. So in this movie, a time of disaster can heal a broken heart, and restore a relationship of any kind. Storms can cause damage, but group effort is a real healer. 5 stars "}{"Title":"From a stickler for perfection","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While most people I know scoff at me for watching this movie (or look at me as if they have no idea what I am talking about), I continue to love this movie. More accurately I love the portrayal of the group of storm chasers. In their brief scenes in this movie the storm chasers make this movie one of the most enjoyable to watch. They provide the comic relief and startling jumps back to reality. The characters of Dusty, Rabbit, and Beltzer are the most memorable and funny in this group of lovable misfits.While some aspects of the plot are indeed a little weak in plausibility (I reference here the final tornado) this film is successful in the aspect that this is an action movie. One must remember the genre when entering into an action movie. This one take the typical bad guy v. good guy stereotype of a movie and alters it- if even ever so slightly.I have been watching this film for nine years now. I can pick out the bloopers and I can recite every clichéd word. But the point is I keep watching this movie. The story is still interesting. The characters are still funny and insane (Rabbit is good, Rabbit is wise.). And the movie is shot well enough that you can believe that you are in this little world for the fraction of time given to you.This movie is no stunning drama or mind-blowing masterpiece- that I willingly admit. But this movie is, never the less, highly entertaining. "},{"Title":"my six years old's current favourite movie","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I don't even know how we ended up with this video but as soon as I put it on my six year old son was hooked. He loves seeing things get totally destroyed and this movie is full of that.Well he's been rationed to only watching it once a week at the weekend and I have to admit that I actually enjoy watching it with him - I guess because I would love to be a storm chaser myself.Characters are asinine of course, especially the evil Jonas, the rival storm chaser, the corporate kiss-ass who's got no instincts, who's in it for the money, not the science. What else can I say. If you have small boys who like destruction (like most small boys do) get this movie! "},{"Title":"Fierce visuals.","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The movie Twister is really only worth seeing for the fierce frightening visuals. If you want to view Torrential Tornado Imagery and feel like you are actually there with the storm chasers, this is your type of movie. I enjoyed it very much on the big screen but something tells me it wouldn't have the same affect on vcr or dvd. Still, if you haven't seen it and like action pics with very realistic visuals see twister, you'll feel like your right there with them. "},{"Title":"A fun ride","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It was a great movie to see in the theater. You really felt as though you were part of the action. What can I really say about the great visuals, sound, etc. that hasn't been said before? Of course, the romantic subplot is pure time filler. What more do you expect in a flick like this? It's still fun escapism, but not the same on the small screen. "},{"Title":"Good movie--What else can I say?","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, for one reason I call it a good movie is because of its special effects.  That tornado swirling in the sky with the cow inside it would almost make you swear it was real.  I do not believe, however, that any organizations for the humane treatment of animals would allow that.  Another great thing was the suspense.  You didn't know what was going to happen to the characters; whether they'd make it or die in the tornado.  This is a good film for everyone to watch, but watching it in the summertime when tornados are likely to happen might make some people nervous. "},{"Title":"An unrealistic but slightly different action movie","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister is certainly a film that looks good. Everything from the tornadoes to the few explosions look very real and powerful. The story goes on all the time and the subject itself is relatively special and interesting.However, this is the most implausible movie I've seen in a long time. Movies hardly show reality; still, explosions do leave a trace, especially on people. Driving through an explosion is of course entertaining but also very unrealistic. And the flying cows? They're in the same league I think. Although the plot keeps you somehow interested throughout the movie, it does leave something to be desired. From the beginning the dramatic need of the characters doesn't come clear as well as I think it should. The whole movie is very stable, even though it contains so much action which definitely keeps you awake.Being so unrealistic and hardly very interesting, Twister is visually worth watching. "},{"Title":"I watch it all the time ...","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The writers of this film have Midwestern living and culture down cold (this, coming from a 25 native of the Midwest.) Bill Paxton is, as always, awesome as the reluctant weatherman drafted by his ex to help with a new science project to monitor hurricanes. He's just as funny and as dramatic as in his other best role - in Aliens. Helen hunt was never more appealing than in this film.These are just the bit players; the real stars of this film are the tornadoes. These tornadoes have such a great on screen presence. I was so glad the movie contained 5 tornadoes, just 2 or 3 would have made for a very disappointing movie. I definitely think that Tornado #4 (the _spooky tornado_) deserved an academy award for best supporting whatever, with Tornado #1 (the home theater tornado) should have gotten an award as a comedic whatever ...I can say that nowadays when I want to benchmark a home theater scene, there is no better film than TWISTER to play on the system. This is one film that puts you someplace that nobody ever should be, and does it with spectacular success and sound effects that will make the hair climb stand up on your back.There are a few somewhat corny parts to this film, but they are easily forgiven and forgotten. This is one of the first efforts by Dreamworks and it is a one-of-a-kind type of movie, a big success. "},{"Title":"Dramatic tedium broken up now and again by gale-force winds...","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Stormchasers Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt track tornadoes in Midwestern America, hoping to get their instrument-pack full of sensors into the funnel of the tornado to measure the wind velocity. Simple-minded thriller written by Michael Crichton (who hopefully cashed a large paycheck) and Anne-Marie Martin gives us bickering romantics in the front-seat, flying cows, and barns being reduced to splinters. This was some viewers' idea of a good time, but with such dullards at the heart of the story, one begins to yawn with an hour left on the clock. The special effects are astounding, but the clichés and director Jan de Bont's herky-jerky pacing make it a bumpy ride. ** from **** "},{"Title":"What can stupid people do with a huge budget?","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What can stupid people do with a huge budget?  They can make film like Twister.  This movie is dumb in so many ways, I wouldn't know where to begin in commenting on it, but I'll give an example The wind is strong enough to pick up and carry a cow around the yellow Jeep pickup, but not strong enough to blow the truck off the road???  How is that possible?Viewers easily impressed with special effects and having an I.Q. below 90 will love this film.  All others should pick something else. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen(small spoilers)","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so bad it not only tells its stupid plot once it repeats itself three additional times. The plot consists of trying to put a machine called Dorothy into a twister.  The whole movie is about that one fact. There are some scenes filled with comic relief but they exist on their own without reaching the rest of the movie up from being a piece of trash. As for the special effects, they are not worth seeing for the torture you will endure if you go see this movie.  Download them from a web site or better yet get sucked into a real twister it's better than seeing this movie. "}{"Title":"Terrible Movie","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Absolutely horrendous. After I saw it, I decided to swear off most big budget action movies. It's a really stupid story, what else can you say? Oh my god, there's a cow flying though my window. Maybe if you were really stoned, and this happened to be lying around so you didn't have to make any effort to get it, you might get some laughs out of the inanity of it all. Let see, what else can I say to fill ten lines about such a dumb movie. Helen Hunt never one of my favorite actresses, she always seems kind of glum. I'm trying to remember more about the plot; I saw this in the theater (I'm embarrassed to admit that my wife and I paid to see it) when it came out in 1996, so it's hard to remember to much about the story line other than &#151; did I say this already? &#151; IT WAS MORONIC. "},{"Title":"The lack of imagination was stupefying...","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If, as one user suggests, this is the perfect example of what passes for 'entertainment' in Hollywood today, then I think I'LL pass... The fact that I believe this to be the exception rather than the rule provides scant comfort. Films such as the oft-trashed Armageddon may be said by some to insult the intelligence, but at least the story attempts to move forward a touch, to provide the characters with a different and more challenging obstacle to their quest. Twister does none of this, and as a result, it blows heartily (Arrrgh, I shall be condemned to 'pun hell' for evermore!)It's not the cardboard script and variously bad acting that makes Twister so painful an experience (Lord knows it didn't hurt Jurassic Park too much...!) Rather, its the complete lack of imagination displayed by the film-makers. Whatever its faults, JP certainly had THAT quality in abundance; and a sobering but thoroughly true fact Dinosaurs are a heck of a lot more interesting to look at than tornados.By lack of imagination I mean the deficiency that, when pondering what to do to make the film more interesting for the audience, comes up with this formula Tornado (pretty darn exciting), followed by BIGGER tornado (OK I suppose, but we've seen this already...) followed by EVEN BIGGER tornado (Yawn)...This is a problem that hampers a lot of disaster films, sooner or later overexposure to said 'disaster' leaves us disinterested. So usually, film-makers try to combat this by having the characters respond to the perils they face in a vaguely interesting manner. What do the characters in Twister do? They run away. Hang on, isn't that what everybody else would do when facing a tornado, as well? The producers want us to say Look! They're running away! Isn't that exciting? No, it's just sensible, we don't want sensibility in a blockbuster, we want mindless bravado! (This is, of course, assuming that you're fortunate enough to be such a safe distance away that you can outrun a tornado, but still...)In fairness, they may eventually do something a bit more proactive than running away, or they may not, I can't remember. Blame this on the horrid dialogue and unsympathetic characters. Ultimately, I remember only blessed relief as the credits began to roll. This truly IS a disaster, but one that all involved should not have survived... "},{"Title":"My Opinion","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I think if anyone is going to sit around with a paper an pen and write down every wrong thing in the movie, doesn't deserve to enjoy it.Now with that said. I had to comment on one person saying about the radio's playing loudly while they was twister chasing.Yes they did have the radio's loud while going on there way. but when they actually got to the scene of chancing a tornado they had the radio OFF, talking back an forth over the CB.Who cares if they movie wasn't 100% correct on every single detail, heaven forbid if someone just sat back and enjoy the movie I suppose.This was a great movie to see the full use of your surround sound system.And kids just love this movie like mad. and hats off to our own weather reporter Gary England for his roll in the movie. "},{"Title":"Not many twists in the plot","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I was a kid aged between 5 and 9, we used to go to Saturday morning pictures at the local Odeon. There we lapped up a diet of cartoons and b-movies and loved every minute of it. Now I dare say that I'd have enjoyed this film if it had been shown when I was that age.  But I cannot believe that anyone over 11 years old could possibly think this film has anything to offer.  If I hadn't have had the misfortune to also see Cruise II recently, then Twister would have to rank as the worst big budget picture ever. One of the other commentators says that the acting & dialogue in this movie is very good - are they serious?????????? This film is devoid of any 'plot' that deserves the name. Don't waste your time unless you want to keep the kids occupied for a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"This is Twisted Fun!!","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Right across the tornado alley, this movie gives a wild and crazy fun for all disaster fans, it came out the same year as Independence Day, and made a lot of money. It stars Bill Paxton, Helen Hunt, Cary Elwes, etc.The movie Twister starts out in 1969 when Jo (Helen Hunt) was at least 9 or 8, there was a tornado coming and starts to hide down the basement, their father was killed in the tornado incident, only the mother and daughter survive, in 1996, a group of storm chasers set out on a run to deactivate the tornado, with a machine that propels the wind to disappear. Meanwhile, another group of storm chasers led by Jonas Miller (Cary Elwes) race to get the tornado deactivated as possible. Some of the tornado scenes in the movie was the drive-in, while there is a tornado coming, they hide in a basement under the garage, and starts tearing things apart, they made it successfully through the disaster, and the scene where they hide inside a small water supply storage building near the barn. Another movie that everyone should see.Twister gets 10 stars "},{"Title":"Twister darn good","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have read people bashing this movie, but in reality, it is very true to form. Meterologists who saw the movie when it came out regarded it as very, very accurate and described the tornado scenes as 85-90% accurate in rating the action and what tornadoes of various sizes in the movie actually do. As far as a plot line, I thought it was very good, and thought the cast did a terrific job. Of course it is not going to go down as a classic, but if you're looking for a good thriller about tornadoes (and let's face it, there isn't too many good, accurate tornado movies out there), this movie is definitely one for you! "},{"Title":"Once again, some people are never satisfied","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a great action film, with moments of fun, but the fact is that these are real people. I have known a few storm chasers and they are a mix of professional and overgrown child. After all, who in his right mind would want to play tag with a tornado. And yet we are indebted to just such people who are learning ways to help save lives. As I write this it is the first part of April in Western Kentucky and the beginning of our thunderstorm and tornado season, which brought this lovely film back to my attention. I had never seen Helen Hunt in anything before (I do not watch any television at all) so was unfamiliar with her work,but thought her character Jo was just like driven people that I have known. Bill Paxton reminds me of old friends as well. And I have definitely known people like Cary Elwes' character, who's failure to listen to the people around then usually end up getting them into trouble. The mix of music also added so much to the film. Finally the scenery and special effects (if you will pardon the pun) just blew me away. It seems as though you never see enough of Lois Smith in the movies she is in. All right all ready, I've gone and said too much but see the film and decide for yourselves. Don't let any critic dictate your choices. Make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"Twister 1 or Twister 2","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am a Okie and I am sitting here watching the movie Twister, and i was just wondering if there will be a Twister 2, any time coming out. We have had some tornado's, again in the past 10 years, they should bring back the same people.........This movie is one of the best movies around, I hope they make a 2 real soon. I hope they do movie quick...... I hope they can fine someone to make the movie.. Twister 2 Please Twister 2 I hope they used the same people..... Lets hope we get a new movie soon... Twister is a Great movie...... The new movie could be made in Moore Oklahoma..... I hope someone will read this and make a new movie.... "},{"Title":"Very suspenseful, nail-biting, and action-packed thrill ride","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In my opinion, TWISTER is a very suspenseful, nail-biting, and action-packed thrill ride. I thought that Bill (Bill Paxton) and Jo (Helen Hunt) made a really good team, especially when they were chasing tornadoes. A couple of things I liked about this film were the scenery and the work from everyone involved, especially Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt. Those things really made me feel good and smile. In conclusion, I highly recommend this very suspenseful, nail-biting, and action-packed thrill ride to all you Bill Paxton or Helen Hunt who have not seen it. When you see it, buckle up and hold on tight for a ride of pure thrills and laughs. "},{"Title":"the film was great","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" the movie is very good . especially Helen hunt she was stunning . bill Paxton was also good , but Helen hunt was the best . i just love the movie . this movie had gave me a motive in my life . it showed the disaster which is not known by the people of different countries . this film tells us that the dark side of nature is very dangerous and we must be aware of it and especially for the people living in coastal regions . i would like to congratulate the producers and directors for such a wonderful job . and wish the co-actors best of luck for their future . and especially Helen hunt all the best for your future . and best of luck the cast and crew of twister and may god bless all of u for making such a wonderful film . "}{"Title":"Awesome Movie Don't Miss This One!","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If you looking for that intense, edge of your seat, thrilling movie than this is the one. I own the DVD and watch it all the time, regardless of what some fools say this is an awesome movie, written by Micheal Crichton and directed by the guy who directed the high-paced movie Speed Jan De Bont. The special effects are outstanding and the cast couldn't of been better. Twister is one of those movies you'll never forget and will wanna see over and over again. The movie is as powerful as a real tornado itself. This movie is as realistic as they come, some people may not agree with me but I believe this is one of the best movies ever made, strictly because its so true, tornadoes do cause that much devastation and a hand full of people really do go out and chase these things. Twister is the best weather movie ever. Twister WOW what a Rush.... "},{"Title":"twister 1995","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i think twister was a great film. i was 8 or 9 years old when it came out and now I'm 17 going on 18 in September and i still watch that movie everyday.i think that Helen hunt and bill Paxton have awesome on screen chemistry in this movie.this movie is a great action movie and with Jamie gertz character there is a A lot of DRAMA let me tell u!!!lol...people have been telling me that there is going to be a sequel to this movie and apart of me wants that to happen but then another part of me don't because its just going to mess up the fun from the first one and its going to take all the fame out of this AWESOME movie.fave quote rabbit is good ... rabbit is wise ;) "},{"Title":"Worth watching over and over, technical errors notwithstanding.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first several times I saw this movie, I had to laugh at some of the alleged meteorological data and SFX. The supposed F-5 that they depict, I thought, was hokey as can be. I changed my mind when, on the Weather Channel, they showed a tornado and it looked almost exactly as depicted in Twister. Okay, I have to give them props for that.HOWEVER, some of the other effects and what's supposed to be happening was just wrong. My main example is toward the end, when chunks of fence are supposedly flying past them, and they don't get pelted by anything ONCE.My major gripe on being unrealistic, though, was when they strap themselves to a cold-water pipe that goes 30 feet into the ground. Sure, I think a leather strap and a deeply-embedded pipe would save them, but these two, supposedly scientists, seem to have forgotten that lightning takes the path of least resistance. A cold-water pipe, out in the middle of nowhere, with two bags of water (read Humans) strapped to it? Lightning would've been hitting that thing right and left.Okay, more props for how the tornado looked on the inside. I was reading a great book about twisters, and the man who saw the inside of one and lived to tell the tale described it just as they depicted. This man, who's name escapes me right now, was known to be intelligent and not giving to wild tales, so people believed him. He described the lightning making the inside almost glow, and little vortices, like tiny tornadoes, oozing out of the insides. And that's how they depict this one.The story itself I like. I love Dusty, he's awesome. I like the other characters too. Rabbit is good, Rabbit is wise. I guess I love this movie, technical errors notwithstanding, because I've seen it at least 30 times, so that's one indicator. For those who aren't weather geeks like myself, you'll thoroughly enjoy it! Oh yeah, one more thing the size of a tornado is no indicator of where it is on the Fujita scale. And the rating on the F-scale isn't until AFTER the storm has passed, not before it! It's based on damage caused, which is after-the-fact. So they can't just look at a tornado and say, for example, That's an F-3. Smaller tornadoes, because of their size and intensity (think of an ice-skater pulling her arms in, making herself smaller but also spinning faster) can be an F-5. Tornadoes with big, wide bases are often way less intense. There're always exceptions, of course. "},{"Title":"Silly but likable","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yes, this movie is by no ways a good movie. It has a paper thin-plot with a lot of completely unnecessary and really cheesy elements like e.g. evil storm chasers who want to make money with stormchasing, now thats a good one and a cliché-struck herd of stormchaser-science-nerds, it has partially awful dialogue, sometimes so forced it hurts, it is as realistic concerning true stormchasing and true meteorology as Alice in Wonderland and even it's tornado-sfx are actually not that convincing (the wizard of Oz-tornado looked far more realistic!). But it is fun, it is a true popcorn-movie and I like it. It has some really good scenes, the prologue although unrealistic (you can't be sucked from a stormshelter!) was chilling when seen in the cinema on big-screen! The soundtrack is OK too, both the score by Mark Mancina and the additional music by Van Halen a.o. Of course this movie is nothing special...if you are not a potential stormchaser like myself! Give it a try and don't expect (and THINK) too much, just let yourself be entertained. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies, Ever!","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Why this movie only has been rated 5.9 out of 10 I just don't understand. It has everything action, humor, drama, a decent story; OK, so, the love story part may be improbable but it has a ton of things going for it. The performances are stellar for an action movie, and even though Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton are the nominal stars, the ensemble cast works wonderfully. Phillip Seymour Hoffman's Dusty is pratically a scene-stealer, he brings his character completely to life. Everybody eventually knows a Dusty, and Hoffman delivers.I can't say enough about the special effects, and if you've never been in a tornado - there's more science than science fiction here.I give it 10 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Where's the sequel?","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My friend and myself watch this movie at least once a week, and can quote most of it by heart as we watch. It's an excellent movie. I personally have worn out my first video tape watching it so much and am now on the second tape (which is dying too) and my best friend has both DVD and tape versions. And after we watch it we always say WHEN IS THE SEQUEL COMING? so if anyone who has the ability to make the sequel is reading this - do it! We want to see what happens next. The effects are awesome, the story is cool. I love this movie! Anyone who has not yet seen it - NEEDS TO DO SO NOW! But be prepared to get hooked. Especially if you like tornadoes causing destruction. "},{"Title":"twisters are really that dangerous. enjoyable","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i really enjoyed this film a lot.i was impressed by the great sounds and special effects. The plot was clear simple and to the point. i think that Helen Hunt and bill Paxton make a great Jo and bill. Dorothy was a smart idea and deserved to finally fly. there is sufficient action in it for all of you action lovers. Cary Elwes as Jonas was a slightly unnecessary but acceptable character.There are some scenes which are shot beautifully against magnificent sceneries. I've never been to Oklahoma and this film makes me want to go. (the town Wakita actually exists its 100 miles NNW of Oklahoma city) overall excellent film with good music soundtracks. "},{"Title":"a damn good fun","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This feature was made when I still thought, Jan De Bont will be a great director - so AFTER the fantastic Speed, BEFORE the terrible Haunted and the more terrible Tomb Raider 2. The Twister is a spectacular, exciting adventure, and I think it's not a simple catastrophe-movie. Why? Because the characters aren't screaming victims, running away from the tornado, no, they are hunters, they hunt these giant, creepy monsters of the nature, and this is a life form for them - they live for this job, live for the hunt, and when I watch the Twister I can feel this joy of the hunt. And this fact give the movie a special taste I guess. Now I know speaking about actors' performances in spectacular, with CGI filled adventure-movie is useless, but I must tell, Helen Hunt shines the whole runtime, she's just so natural she can fill with life even a so simple, stereotyped character, like this. So I think Twister is a damn good adventure-movie; however the finale inside the tornado is very silly - but I could forgive that because the whole feature is so spectacular and exciting. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Twister-Gets better every time","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I truly enjoy this movie. I take it at its face value. It's definitely not a classic like The Wizard of Oz but it has its merits. The special effects are amazing-even with the inconsistencies. Every time I watch the movie I find something I didn't see before. The movie is exciting and the actors are fun to watch-Dusty's character is funny and Helen Hunt is always beautiful. You have to take this movie with a grain of salt. Its content may not be true to life (those who know about tornadoes know what I mean) but the movie is a fun ride! I was wondering why the opening VHS trailer is different than the DVD (there is no Tazmanian Devil sequence). If you have never seen this movie and you enjoy excitement please go out and rent it! Watch it at least twice before you return it! You may be pleasantly surprised! "},{"Title":"Twister had awesome suspense.","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Twister cast picked the right characters for the right movie. Every tornado was different, and suspenseful. Aunt Meg makes great food for them-to get their energy running. Even though the flying wasn't the best, flying cows are. And so is the rest of the movie. The divorce thing was great-there wasn't any other way for them to meet in an interesting way. Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt were the best for those parts. For people the same, they are so different. Melissa also brings out a good part-not wanting to do anything-she is almost one theme of the movie. In a short form, Twister Rocks the ground! And if you can't figure what that means-twisters rock the ground, the movie is called Twister, so it rocks the ground! "}{"Title":"A great movie !","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Twister has a great combination between sound and acting. The actings are excellent, the actors are so attractive, and it was realistic. Twister has a great effort on me. In fact, there was a small mistake, on the second time Will and Jo went to chase the tornado, I had the feelings like it repeated the first one. But, the content was really good, the music is sometime romantic, sometime exciting. It was a happy ending when the tornado was over and the sun rose again, the kiss between Jo and Will. At the beginning, I had the feeling that Jo and Will would be together, and it was truth. But, poor Will's wife, I think she wanted to leave because she thought Will was Jo's. "},{"Title":"some of the best special effects I've ever seen!","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely LOVE this movie, so much so that I bought it on VHS, then bought it again when it came out on DVD! I love it not so much for the so-so plot, but because of the edge of your seat action and mind blowing special effects. Keep in mind when watching this movie that every twister in the movie was computer generated, amazing! If you have a good home theatre system, with a surround sound stereo setup and a big screen HDTV this movie will take you on a great thrill ride. I was just glad I was watching the movie and not *in* the movie, scary stuff! I'm in California so this movie probably amazes me more than it would someone that lives in tornado alley. Those people would probably feel the same amazement about an earthquake movie that I felt about this tornado movie. I think Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt did some great acting as well. BRAVO!  "},{"Title":"Cool cool cool COOL","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't CARE that the tornadoes in this movie usually attack out of a sunny sky, I don't CARE that real tornadoes don't growl...in fact I can ignore just about every scientific impossibility shown because this movie is SO COOL. Hey, I grew up in the south and have never seen a real honest-to-God tornado, and if you're like me you might find yourself wishing juuuuuuust a little that one would come along. 'Course, it'd probably terrify the heck out of me in the real world, plus, you know, all that death and destruction, not fun...so this movie is the next best thing as far as I'm concerned. The special effects are incredible, the actors all look like they're having a great time, it's just a really fun movie.  "},{"Title":"Big, loud and dumb, but hurray for the cow","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Jan De Bont's Twister is better than The Haunting (much better), but when you compare it to the powerhouse known as Speed, there is a big drop off.  Even as a dumb blockbuster, this goes a little far down the line.  A lot of the movie has corny dialogue, pretty thin characters (even is described inbetween hailstorms) and some other weak plot things.  But, it is big and loud, which helps enough for this film to get the grade it gets, but that might be it.  But hey, having a cow fly around in a twister is pretty cool.  By the way, the dumbest thing about this film, is the mpaa rating (PG-13 for intense depiction of weather), which makes me wonder why any kids live in the midwest or in the carribean during hurricane season.  B-  "},{"Title":"Just what am I going to tell them?","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" says the irate father at the beginning of Strange Brew, after watching the beginning of Bob & Doug McKenzie's sci fi thriller about fleshy headed mutants in the forbidden zone. I have similar feelings about Twister. How could I justify the waste of time mindlessly staring at tornado images and listening to the chatter of lovebirds in the cab of a pickup? At least Bob & Doug are funny, and their special effects make a travesty of films like Twister.Beyond that, I was sickened by the cocoon of safety created for the viewer. Especially the images of riding in a pickup truck - which conveyed a death-cheating sense of truck power, science, love and driving skill. It's a pretty flippant attitude in the face of real suffering. How many Katrinas and 9/11's will it take to wipe out this crass genre of movies? "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I liked Twister. Well, I like tornadoes. So it kind of fits. But after Speed, Jan De Bont made this movie. And its a lot quicker than Speed if you get my meaning.Twister tells the story of 2 divorced tornado chasers (Bill and Jo) trying to get a device up in a tornado to create an advanced warning system. But to do so, they must get in the twister's deadly path.This movie is filled with action non-stop and even has humor in it. So see this movie today.Running Time 113 Minutes Rated PG-13 For Bad Weather Sequences and Language. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever!","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Twister has always been one of My favorites films! I am a weather nut and this film in incredible! It has great acting by Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt! I think that both of them acted greatly together! Their characters are very good and I like the way that they dress. Philip Seymour Hoffman was really the highlight actor in the film. He is so hilarious and his character is so colorful which in My opinion is one of the coolest characters ever in a movie! Carey Elwes Jami Gertz, and Lois Smith also put on good performances. Look for Joey Slotnick in a scene very similar like the one in the movie that would come out years later, Hollow Man! I loved that scene at the table at Meg's house where the guys are telling that story/joke. The special effects are tremendous! The structure of the tornadoes and the power that they have and the unbelievable damage that they do is totally accurate in the movie! Mark Mancina, one of the great composers of the Media Ventures composes an extraordinary score for Twister. The score has a great theme and an awesome choir! I think that the score is one of the best ever! The song Respect the Windin the end credits by Van Halen is a beautiful piece of music and it fits perfectly! I strongly recommend this film!  "},{"Title":"Twister","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is quite a simple idea for a film, basically some scientists go somewhere where there are loads of twisters, or tornadoes going on and try to work how they work and stuff. As a kid, Dr. Joanne 'Jo' Thornton-Harding (Helen Hunt) saw her father taken away by a tornado, and now she is working to find the cause of them. He husband, William 'Bill/Billy' Harding (Bill Paxton) is the guy who joins her and her experiments, he has technology of his own. He invented some small microchip balls that can go into a tornado and show the power and size. He called these balls Dorothy (as in The Wizard of Oz), but his not very nice near fellow Dr. Jonas Miller (Cary Elwes) stole his idea of the balls, and called them Dot. Anyway, this is pretty good disaster action, with a load of tornadoes. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Visual Effects and Best Sound, and it won the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"I Feel Slightly Cheated","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  TWISTER is one of those Summer blockbuster pop corn movies so I shouldn't be too hard on it but I kept getting the impression it was nothing more than an overblown TVM like NIGHT OF THE TWISTERS OR ATOMIC TWISTER .There's a lot in common style wise with these latter TVMs featuring a lethal column of wind . The heroes are very nice people but also very superficial and lacking real depth while the cameras disappear when there's some really spectacular carnage on its way . This expensive blockbuster cheats in the same way as NIGHT OF THE TWISTERS when the main characters survive a terrible tornado that devastates a small town , devastation that happened off screen . While the budget of the aforementioned TVM wouldn't have stretched convincingly enough to show us lives ended and homes destroyed TWISTER has far less of an excuse .I often found myself bored watching the tornado sequences on screen . Tornado might be spectacular but there also very similar in appearance and unfortunately the special effects here aren't too special with the CGI explosions being especially unconvincing to a demanding and blasé audience who cry out to be left breathless by FX technology It's an inoffensive film but don't expect too much  "},{"Title":"War of sensibilities","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I'm revealing bias here again, but what good critic doesn't?  Anyway, those who have commented on what a mess this film is need to keep in mind this; the movie was a collaboration between Jan de Bont and Michael Crichton, and this, I think, is a war of sensibilities.  De Bont made a fun movie in SPEED, which was plot driven, yes, but had people to care about, and was exciting(of course, what he's done since isn't that good, but this was then).  Crichton, on the other hand, is completely plot-driven, and while he distills science well, cares nothing about character, and what he writes is so skeletal it has the effect of putting a straitjacket on the story; it has no room to breathe.  The film is a mess, for the most part, because those two sensibilities fight it out, and unfortunately, it seems Crichton wins.The good parts, of course, are the tornadoes, and all the special effects.  I also liked all the scientist characters who are with Helen Hunt.  Usually, when scientists are in films, they're presented as dweebs.  Here, while they are nerds, they're eccentric and funny and human beings.  You also feel the vicarious thrill of trying to chase something like this, which I didn't think was possible.  And while the scientists were after their objective, they weren't callous towards the effects of the tornadoes.  And finally, Helen Hunt.  I'm a big fan of hers, and she projects intelligence, grace under pressure, and humor, plus she handles the emotional stuff well without getting sentimental.Unfortunately, we have the bad parts.  Cary Elwes et al were totally unnecessary to this story(and they're not in it for the money, they're in it for the science! ranks up with the worst lines of the decade), it's merely an arbitrary insertion of a villain where none is needed.  Bill Paxton is good at times, but he's saddled with that line and some other bad lines, which is Crichton's way of spelling everything out instead of trusting us.  And while Jami Gertz was funny at first(trying to do her job during all the chaos around her), she became a bit much after awhile.  In short, this movie doesn't blow, but it's not the great ride I was hoping for. "}]