[{"Title":"At the court of Louis XVI before the guillotine","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This reminds me a lot of Dangerous Liaisons (1988) and Valmont (1989) in its cynicism and sharp wit. Set in France during the same time period (the eve of the French Revolution--that's the eighteenth century, reviewers), Ridicule concentrates not so much on sexual intrigues (although there is plenty of that) but on cynical wit as though in homage to Voltaire, France's master of satire whose spirit is suffused throughout.First a warning. Don't let the rather gross crudity of the opening scene mislead you. That is meant merely as satire, not as a presaging of further crudities to come. It is also meant as a kind of cinematic joke since there is no comparable female nudity in the entire film. Indeed, there is no comparable, shall we say expression, anywhere in legitimate filmdom that I am aware of. So let it pass or close your eyes.Charles Berling stars as Gregoire Ponceludon de Malavoy, a country engineer who comes to Versailles to get financial backing to drain a swamp to save the peasants who are dying of mosquito-borne disease. (Peasants feed aristocrats as well as mosquitos.) He discovers very quickly that a way to an audience with Louis XVI is through gaining a reputation as a clever courtier. Guided by M. Bellegarde (Jean Rochefort), a retired courtier himself, Ponceludon quickly picks up the games of wit and ridicule that reign at court. His quick and clever mind and youthful good looks gain the attention of the king's mistress, Madame de Blayac (Fanny Ardant) who demonstrates how access to the king can come through her bedroom. Ponceludon is sincere only in his desire to drain the swamp and so readily allows himself to become another of Blayac's lovers in exchange for a chance to present his program to Louis XVI.At the same time he meets Bellegarde's daughter Mathide (Judith Godrèche), an idealistic beauty with a scientific bent, who is betrothed to a dying old man of wealth and position. They fall in love, but their differing agendas keep them apart.What makes this film such a delight is the delicious way it satirizes the decadent court of Louis XVI. The dramatic irony is superb and absolute in the sense that at no time does director Patrice Leconte give even the slightest hint that any of the byzantine sycophants at court are aware that Danton and the Terror await them. Throw in the impending Industrial (and scientific) Revolution symbolized in the form of Ponceludon and Mathide, and the ancien régime with its antiquated feudal titles and corrupt privilege is seen for what it was, a parasitic anachronism, ripe to rot for destruction.The sets, the direction and especially the acting are excellent. Veteran Rochefort is particularly good in a part that depends on a directive and expressive face amid the whispers at court. Berling is smooth and believable as a man with a noble mission, adroit at repartee, love and dueling, a modest and earnest hero.Godrèche is good, but seems a little restrained here. She is an impossibly healthy, handsome beauty no man could resist. I first saw her as a 17-year-old in The Disenchanted (1990) where her adolescent charm was carefully and craftily displayed by director Benoît Jacquot. Here Leconte concentrates on her strength of character.Fanny Ardant's Madame de Blayac is a Machiavellian mistress of love's duplicity, very much like the Marquise de Merteuil from Dangerous Liaisons and Valmont. Her performance compares favorably with that of Glenn Close and Annette Bening, respectively, although there is an earthy quality to Ardant that seems most realistic. Her character is also more vulnerable.The sets are sumptuous without being artificially showy. The gray, high-topped wigs and the beaked-nosed masks at ball are charming and, along with the gilded attire, the caked makeup, etc., somehow suggest the true state of costume and personal hygiene circa 1784, reminding me that in those days people did not generally wear underpants or take showers.Some bon motsThe soul of wit is to know one's place.When asked by the king to say something witty about the king himself, Ponceludon returns The king is not a subject. The king asks if this is not a (lowly) pun, but is assured that it is a play on words.When Blayac discerns that Ponceludon is not entirely smitten with her, she responds, Learn to hide your insincerity so that I may yield without dishonor.The film closes with a scene in England on a cliff overlooking the English channel. Bellegarde and another reflect on the changes after the revolution Wit was the very air we breathed. Now the bloated rhetoric of Danton rules in place of wit. Bellegarde's hat is blown off by the wind. His companion remarks Better your hat than your head.By the way, the subtitles (and this is usually not the case) are excellent, inventive and faithful enough, while comfortably brief, to have been done by a professional translator instead of by someone handy who is passably bilingual.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"the thing that can destroy your life...","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ridicule confirms well a thing Patrice Leconte is one of the most talented French film-makers that French cinema has known. His gift comes from the fact that ke knows how to find original and eye-catching subjects for his movies and he also knows how to make them fascinating (watch mister Hire or the hairdresser's wife to be aware of it). Here, he chose to broach a make his movie around a feeling that men always dreaded ridicule. The action takes place in 1780, in the reign of Louis XVI. A young noble (Charles Berling) intends to get a meeting with the king, in Versailles. Indeed, he'd like him to lend important sums of money so as to drain marshes infected by mosquitos. This action will enable to save hundreds of peasants. But what Berling doesn't know is that he's not the only one who wants to get a meeting with the king. Hundreds of nobles like him feel the same thing. Above all, according to an elderly noble (Jean Rochefort), when you're in the court of a king, you have to avoid the ridicule which consequences can be disastrous. Berling will learn it, will face it and will just avoid it.You could compare the court of Louis XVI as a jungle where only the strong survive. The strong are those who are quick-witted and skillful-minded. Ridicule invades the weak and leads them to disgrace, even suicide. With this movie, Leconte's aim is at denouncing vanity and hypocrisy of courtiers in the court of the king who take advantage of their privileged situation.An outstanding and precise film-making, a dazzling performance especially Jean Rochefort and some powerful cues (now, you mustn't make a single mistake said Rochefort to Berling when the last one's going to meet the king). Obviously, the movie doesn't lack ironical humor when the king asks to a courtier I hope it's not a pun and the courtier replies no, Sir, it's a play on words. Play on words and pun mean the same thing.At the end, a brilliant movie rightly awarded in France where it won the Oscar for the Best movie in 1997 "},{"Title":"Malicious Wordplay, and Watch Your Back","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ridicule is a French film which takes place in 1783, a few years before Louis XVI lost the  ability to wear a hat; where ...in this country, vices are without consequence, but ridicule can  kill. The film is about the effect of wit and word play on people's lives and careers.  Malicious, mannered and highly enjoyable. Charles Berling, Jean Rochefort, Bernard  Giraudeau and Fanny Ardant are excellent. A man would be a fool not to want to bed Ardant,  and even more a fool to trust her. The love affair between Berling and his deep-diving  sweetheart is amusing and endearing.The film is sumptuously mounted. The dialogue is so clever a knowledge of French might be  in order, but the English subtitles do a superb job of conveying the witty, cruel, self-serving  word play.  "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say that I wish I could speak better French, simply because this film has such a great sense of humor, it would only intensify the hilarity of the picture. The story was not perhaps the most original, then again, what is? This film had heart and a flow about it that was very interesting and pleasing to the eye and soul. Sometimes I hoped that I could see the lives of the other people in the plot, like that little deaf/mute boy, Paul or whatever happened to the abbot? Overall, I must say that the film is beautifully shot, funny in a very literary, upper minded way and a sheer delight. Not for those with a taste for low-brow humor however.  "},{"Title":"Cutting humor truly a cut above","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that this film is certainly not for an audience with a predilection for sophomoric or low-brow hu-mah.  The action in this film is nearly entirely a matter of verbal cut and thrust and quick repartee.  A period piece shot in pre-revolutionary France in the days of King Louis and Marie Antoinette, Ridicule portrays an era when wit could earn a passport into courtly favor, and one verbal faux pas could ruin a man's reputation and position in society.  Charles Berling's performance as Ponceledon, the rustic nobleman trying to bring his petition to drain the disease-infested swamps of his region before the King of France, is in a word, superb...  Fanny Ardant is also a well-cast Madame de Blayac, the dexterously duplicitous countess who appears disposed towards aiding Ponceledon in his suit.  Ridicule is a genuinely delightful comedy.  I recommend it highly even to those who do not speak French.  My rating 9/10.   "},{"Title":"Best French film of the 1990's","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very very intelligent movie.  From a historical point of view, it's perfect!  It shows how cruel and vain the French noblesse was before the French Revolution of 1789, and why this country had a revolution!  It's also a fantastic movie for the beauty of the French language.  Actors are fabulous, with Berling, Rochefort and Ardant.  For me, French cinema is always at it's peak when they're doing comedy of historical movies, like this one, or Beaumarchais l'insolent, Marquise, or Cyrano de Bergerac.  By the way, I'd like to tell Thefan-2 of Detroit that the Ridicule of the title don't mean Ridiculous. In the Renaissance French language, it means Hard. And that's what is facing Berling, when he wants to get in touch the king to help the poor people of his land. "},{"Title":"Makes it easy to understand why majority of French citizens lead horrific lives","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ONLY ONE SPOILER When I searched the internet for reviews of this movie, I found several reviews by male movie reviewers who seemed to feel outrage, shock and disgust at the opening scene. I thought to myself, how bad could this be? I mean, what DON'T they show in movies these days? Should I allow my teenage children to see the film? What WAS this scene, and were there more like it? No review was specific as to answering my questions, so my husband and I watched it alone. Here is what that one scene is A rather graphic scene (zoomed in and lasting a couple of seconds) of a nobleman's genitalia as he is urinating on an aged, disabled nobleman who had ridiculed him some 30 years earlier. Perhaps the outrage, shock and disgust felt by these male reviewers was due to the fact that instead of the typical female nudity we see everywhere in movies, for once we saw graphic male nudity. Who would've thought men to be so prudish? Now, before all you men out there attempt to perform your own version of witty repartee' and strike back at these comments, allow me to add that yes, while this one scene was graphic and shocking, that it was not done for the sake of shock, but rather to show what lengths people in positions of power went to in order to protect their own positions and sabotage that of others, ranging from ridicule and humiliation to violence and death. While I do not condone gratuitous nudity for the sake of pornography, I do feel this one scene accurately sets the tone of the tale and has meaning in it's ending.For some time I could not understand how the plight of so many French citizens could be so desperate and full of starvation and death while the wealthy did not suffer the same fate, and why nobody did anything to change this. If the portrayal of those in positions of power and wealth in this movie was depicted accurately, it is easy to understand how a once great country failed it's citizens when power and choice was held by those who were selfish, lazy, and possibly worse - silly. King Louis XVI has been written to be by many accounts, a man not able to rule, passive, indifferent to those around him near and far, and unable to repair the damage done by his predecessors, especially King Louis XIV when also abandonment of reason and over indulgence were the rule of the day.Along with the beautiful countryside, architecture and decor, costumes (couldn't they give poor Mathilde more than two dresses to wear during the entire film?) and great depiction of human nature and our inherent weaknesses, this movie was very entertaining and for me much more enjoyable than Valmont/Dangerous Liaisons to which it has been compared. While Valmont/Dangerous Liaisions also contained the above attributes, Ridicule contained an important element they did not - well developed characters and plot. "},{"Title":"Gem of subtlety","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this film recently on video after having missed it at the cinema and on TV. I knew it would be all about cruelty of words and superficiality of elites. Indeed, this film is a true gem, very well played, sharp and quick. It tells the story of a young provincial nobleman discovering the Versailles Court as he tries to get funding for his project. What he finds will lead the nobility to its brutal end 6 years later futility, self-conceit, disinterest to the people's problems, superficiality of relationships (all of which still pervade it modern French elite, to some respects as was evident from revelations of Mitterrand's shameful reign). Of course the political message is important. But equally if not more important -or pleasurable- are the dialogues. French can be so brutal, insidious, cruel, tortured, witty when used a propos that I'm not sure the non-French speakers could get the most of the dialogues. Certainly the absolutely brilliant rhymes contest would be somehow lost in English subtitles. A very good 9/10 for this movie, and a bit less if you don't get the dialogues.  "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Patrice Leconte's most achieved feature. The scenario mixes wit, cruelty, finest ferocious humor, politics and romance with a rare balance. Rhythm is fast, and the movie is served by a wonderful cast (many actors are among the best stage actors in France), notably main character Charles Berling and Bernard Gireaudeau's abbe de Villecourt. Jean Rochefort's supporting performance is outstanding, as is the impersonation of a Versailles court's bird of prey by Fanny Ardant. All in all, i.m.h.o., one of the best French movies of the 90s.  "},{"Title":"Wit opens any door.","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes with movie distribution, as with humour, timing is everything. Patrice Leconte's Ridicule is a long way from the best work from almost anyone involved, yet still proved a major art-house success outside France, picking up Oscar and Golden Globe nomination for Best Foreign Film, winning a BAFTA as well as a nomination for the Palme D'Or at Cannes and winning four Cesars, including Best Film and Best Director, as well as another eight nominations in France itself. All of which leaves you with the suspicion that it couldn't have been up against much competition that year. It's certainly not a bad film, but at times it's almost as slight as its subject &#150; the rules of wit and ridicule at the Court of Versailles under King Louis XVI, where you live or die by the readiness of your wit and where a single misstep can cast you into oblivion. Charles Berling is the impoverished minor aristocrat seeking royal patronage for a drainage project to stop his peasants from dropping like flies only to discover that the only way to get near to the King in a world where wit opens any door is to demonstrate a sharper and more malicious tongue than those around him. Tutored in the rules of engagement by Jean Rochefort's friendly courtier and both championed and checked by Fanny Ardant's court predator, he briefly finds himself a sensation in a world where honesty and wit are so rarely combined, only to find himself heading for a fall.While it's a cut above the usual dry costume drama and passes the time more than pleasantly enough, it never quite escapes the feeling of a safe and predictable morality tale while at times the wit could be sharper and the venom more prominent. There are some fine good moments and Ardant gets a great screen entrance, her servants blowing powder over her naked body, but at the end of the day it manages to be a curious mixture of both a mildly satisfying diversion and slightly less than the sum of its parts. Very much like the Court of Versailles itself&#133; Whereas Miramax's Region 1 DVD is bare-bones, Second Sight's UK PAL DVD boasts a fine 2.351 widescreen transfer as well as a good 52-minute documentary on the making of the film. "}{"Title":"The best French film you'll ever see!","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rarely do we witness an impeccable work of Art. Social issues duly addressed, it also bemuses us, and shows mean and altruistic motives combined in every person, noble or wicked. It is true frivolity doesn't come off very well in this film, but I find the contrast between l'ingénieur and la cour satisfying. I won't dance in our modern cours without having second thoughts from now on...I love Jean Rochefort's roles, this one seems hand picked for him. Intelligence, restraint, frivolity and pragmatism alla Rousseau form this character. I'd love to have a guide in life like him!Judith Godrèche's Mathilde de Bellegarde is fine. Probably too perfect, too much avant garde for the little education a woman was afforded at that time. But well, this and the fact that both father and daughter are brilliant but poor makes me wonder if this superb film does indeed have some elements of a feuilleton, of a pop novel. Like Cinderella, Lagardere and all its Hollywood variations, like, just to name one example, Mona Lisa Smile. Mathilde said the cutting phrase I most liked of this film when observed that our hero started to like the corridors of power a bit for its own sake, mistaking his wit for his destiny. I wonder why Judith hasn't appeared on more quality films. Had her part been played by a lesser actress it would have brought the film to oblivion.Madame de Blayac is just perfect. Beautiful, cunning, devoid of feelings. L'Abbé de l'Epée (Serpent) is extremely well thought of. De Bellegarde's words when he speaks, it's already too late proved to be just too accurate. For some reason, the relationships between the two Marquises is at times like those middlebrow US films of boxers, from Rocky to Million dollar baby. But I don't want to show a demeaning side of my favourite film, so I'll keep to the bright side ).Music is, yes, PERFECT if you like the baroque. So is photography! The foggy duel with L'Officier Duel, aerial views of le marais and some small moments, like the scene of the palace's flowers resembling it to a The cure song (an aspect S. Coppola's Marie Antoinette understood very well the modernity of classic European culture). Any fool can film beauty at Versailles and Vaux-le-Vicomte. It takes a Leconte to show them under a new fresh light, like if we had never seen them before.As usual, Berling is fine. Some actors are born with the gift; it's obvious he's one of the chosen ones. Yes, this film is similar to Dangerous Liaisons, but I find Ridicule is far superior for having likable characters and a human story to tell besides the fireworks.The storyboard is obviously perfect. C. O. DeRiemer in Amazon, Terrell-4 at IMDb said something funny, in the spirit of the film, probably a good ending for this humble review. (On F. Ardant) A man would be a fool not to want to bed Ardant, and even more a fool to trust her. Enjoy!PS It's true that, as this reviewer writes, good command of French is in order if you want to follow this film. It would be like drowning in a marais. No subtitle could do the job, and maybe only in French does detached verbal swordplay appear refined ). "},{"Title":"History 101","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's been a few weeks since I've seen this movie, and I still think about it from time to time. The cover box is deceptively sexual, because the story is mostly about a man fitting in to a new society, the compromises that entails, and the love he has for a girl outside his new circle. The history lesson about 17th century France is worth the rental alone, as you will be exposed to the scientific, environmental, and political climate of the time. And the central theme of how much dignity a person should sacrifice for a greater good is, I think, a universal one and would resonate with most viewers. In short, I really like this film and would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Ridicule -- You are ridiculous, if you choose not to see it","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If life in high school was set in the 18th century French court, we would have Ridicule, a movie about Gregoire Ponceludon (Charles Berling) who realizes that the best way to drain the swamps on his estate is not to ingratiate himself with the courtiers, but to insult them with one witticism after the other. Wit, a friend the Marquis de Bellegarde (Jean Rochefort) tells young Ponceludon, opens all doors and can win King Louis XVI's favor; and once you have the king's favor, he will give you whatever you want. Indeed, one comes away with the impression that the king's generosity towards the witty is so boundless that he seems oblivious to the reality that he is spending money that the state does not have. Only the finance minister knows how bad things are and he grumbles to Ponceludon that perhaps he could convince the king to stop spending so much money on his courtiers for the dignity of France. Well, as far as Louis XVI (Urbain Cancelier) is concerned, dignity can go to hell.Like all high schools, the French court is artificial, cruel, witty and a haven for endless sex. The courtiers subjected to ridicule are weak, insecure and tend articulate themselves rather badly. They could be popular courtiers who have misspoken, thereby providing an ambitious courtier with the opportunity to ridicule them. The women don't believe in love. They will have sex with any man who happens to be the most popular at any given time. When Abbe de Vilecourt (Bernard Giraudeau) falls into disfavor, Madame de Blayac (Fanny Ardant) turns to Ponceludon. She then finds another lover, when Ponceludon inadvertently ridicules her.Now all of this may seem very predictable, unless you were home schooled during your high school years, but it is entertaining most of the time in wicked sort of way. We enjoy hearing the witticism; we enjoy even more seeing people insulted, especially when it is the vile de Vilecourt. But this film also has a serious and a profound side as well. On being ridiculed, Ponceludon condemns the world of the courtier as a farce. It is not a witty remark. But Madame de Blayac realizes he is right. She realizes that she has been duped, because all her life was wasted on an endless struggle trying to be popular, pretty and charming. A life without love and indeed without meaning. It was not too late for Ponceludon, because he was still young and had only stayed in court for a few months. But it was too late for Madame de Blayac, because she had nothing else apart from that pointless life. Perhaps that explains her tears, when in her moment of victory Ponceludon leaves the court for good and the dancing resumes.I could go on about the film. At times it is boring, but on the whole director Patrice LeConte does an excellent job in maintaining our interest. The performances are good too, especially the one given by Fanny Ardant. Finally, the film has a brilliant baroque score which creates the atmosphere of a ruthless and uncompromising court. The sets and costumes are beautiful too, but what is decisive in films like these is excellent direction, a good screenplay and brilliant performances this film has all three. "},{"Title":"Unique story but not very involving","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I did admire many things about this French film I came away thinking that it was strangely uninvolving. Story is about a landowner who wants to start a project in his precinct where the local swamps and canals would be drained so that they can keep the mosquito population down because many people are getting sick and dying. Ponceludon (Charles Berling) heads to Versailles to see Louis XVI and ask him for a grant to pay for the project but Louis XVI is only interested in people with very sharp wit. The society in that area thrives on wit as much as money has value. An older man named Bellegarde (Jean Rochefort) takes him under his wing and advises him on how to use wit. Much to everyone's surprise Ponceludon is very good with wit and he gets to socialize with those near Louis XVI. Ponceludon falls in love with Bellegarde's daughter Mathilde (Judith Godreche) who is young and pretty and bosomy and is conducting research with a diving suit. Ponceludon seduces Madame de Blayac (Fanny Ardant) who knows his intentions but she uses him as well. Film is directed by Patrice Leconte who has always shown great sets and locations and this is a very impressive looking film. The performances are top notch and Rochefort seems born to play these types of roles. The best shot in the film comes near the end with Ardant who has been spurned by her lover even though he killed her previous suitor in a duel. The look of hurt and embarrassment on her face was the strongest in the film. Ardant despite her age is still easily one of the most beautiful women in the world. She exudes tremendous sexiness and the scene where she plays footsy under the table is a very sexy scene. But the film maintains its distance emotionally and it really doesn't allow the viewer to gather up any connection with it. One of the plot lines that should have had more impact is the romance between Berling and Godreche. Her breasts are practically falling out of her dress and he usually just stands there and tells her to be careful with her research. The romance between them just doesn't take off. It's not a bad film, in fact its pretty interesting but when its over you get the feeling that this film should have roped its viewers in better emotionally. All the ingredients are there. Good director, excellent actors, great locations and sets but something was lacking in the way the story was told.   "},{"Title":"An excellent period film.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ridicule deals with the consequences of a monarch or ruler running his empire according to his own personal interests, rather than concern for the greater good of the people. There were also a couple of underlying themes, such as the distribution of social classes overall and the ignorance of the upper classes, as well as the human suffering that comes as a result of arrogance, ego, and social status. A romantic conflict was a significant part of the story, dealing with the pain and guilt that someone may feel from seducing one person for manipulative purposes and actually being in love with a different person. The story is of a man named Ponceludon de Malavoy who needs to drain a mosquito and disease infested swamp, but he needs King Louis XVI's help to do it. He travels to Versailles, but finds that he needs to have the sharpest of all wits in order for the king to recognize his problem at all. He finds himself in a society driven almost exclusively by the measure of each person's wit (or `hew-mah,' as they heard it was called in English), and the seriousness of Ponceludon's plight was second to this point, if it is noticed at all.  It was more important to King Louis XVI to be entertained than it was to drain a swamp that was causing sickness and death even among children.  One scene in particular was very effective in demonstrating the ignorance of the upper class. There was a boy named Paul who was a deaf-mute, and seen as a `half-wit' by the upper class people. Obviously, in this society this is the last thing that anyone wants to be. He is exiled from the kingdom, sent to live with other &#145;half-wits,' only to return later with several other deaf-mutes after having learned to communicate using sign language. They are introduced to the upper class members, who are skeptical about the worth of the half-wits' lives. When they see that these kids are able to communicate, they are noticeably impressed. They even give them a standing applaud when one of them manages to make a `play on signs.'  They see that these kids are not only intelligent enough to communicate, but can even be witty using sign language, and this completely changes their view. They had always seen people like Paul as less important, simply because they are not able to speak or hear, which is clearly a symptom of classical ignorance.Ridicule is a period film, and it was very effective in illustrating the differences between elements of society today and of the society of 1793. Obviously, honesty is very highly valued today. A recent survey showed that honesty is the third thing that women truly desire in a relationship (preceded by affection at No.1 and conversation at No.2). The same survey showed sex to be Number one on men's importance list, and this completes one of the sharpest contrasts seen in Ridicule. Ponceludon de Malavoy, the man seeking to have his swamp drained, is engaging in a sexual relationship with Marquis de Bellegarde, an attractive older woman of much higher social status (!!). When he informs her of his lack of emotional feelings for her, she responds in a way that, in my opinion, is exactly the opposite of the way a woman today would respond, by literally telling him to lie to her. She tells him, `Learn to hide your insincerity so that I can yield without dishonor.' Aside from the fact that this shows that she would rather be bedded than loved, at least by Ponceludon, it also enhances the drama caused by his love for someone else, and his obvious feelings of guilt about sleeping with another woman. Ponceludon does not love her, but knows that she is capable of improving his chances of getting help from the king.Ponceludon, despite having sexual relations with Marquis de Bellegarde, the older upper class woman, is in love with a simpler, poorer woman named Mathilde. She develops very strong feelings for him as well, but she is engaged to a very old, very rich man. She is determined to remain engaged to him, even though he is currently married to another woman, so that he may finance her scuba diving interests. The fact that Ponceludon and Mathilde are both engaged in strikingly similar manipulative relationships makes their love for each other even more effective. There were dancing scenes later in the film where everyone wears masks and huge elaborate wigs, which demonstrated a dire need to be accepted. The fact that all of the wigs and masks worn in this scene were strikingly similar suggested that these people desired to be as much like everyone else as possible, and that individuality is discouraged. The men wore white powder on their faces, blush on their cheeks, and even distinct amounts of lipstick. Aside from being another way of illustrating conformity, it also poses a huge difference between then and now. In today's society, men who wear that much make-up are most often the ones who are actually trying NOT to fit in with the general population.One other thing that is worth mentioning is the fact that the exact words or topics spoken in the film are far less important than the way that they are said. Body language as well as things like costuming and make-up are far more important than the exact subjects that were spoken of. This was most effectively communicated to the audience by the fact that there were a few scenes where the French conversation was not subtitled. This forced the audience, particularly the English speaking audience, to focus more on the way the characters were speaking to each other rather than what exactly they were saying. This is very unusual, but is also noteworthy because it successfully furthers the meaning delivered by the film.  "},{"Title":"Wit is the opposite of lust, the quickest, the best ...","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wanted to says whoever lived by the word, would perish by the word' but among the many lessons Patrice Leconte's Ridicule taught me is that pun is regarded as the death of wit.WIT ELUDES US SOMETIMES In French, there are two kinds of wit the repartee and the 'stairs' wit. One is the ability to come up with the right witty remark as self-defense, while the other always comes to mind, when we're 'going down the stairs' and then the flash of wit blinds us damn, that's what I should have said. The thrilling aspect of Ridicule is that it turns a rather benign theme into a life-and-death situation, when the hero's mission depends on his wit and being ridiculed would be his failure.PEASANTS NOT ONLY FEED MOSQUITOES BUT ARISTOCRATS The tag-line of Patrice Leconte's masterpiece magnificently contradicts a famous French saying, by stating that 'Ridicule can kill', literally and symbolically. Literally, because some remarks can knock down any person and follow him the rest of his life, while symbolically, it can make a social status collapse and undermine the realization of subsequent projects, no matter how noble and thoughtful they are. And the project in Ridicule belongs to a rural aristocrat, Gregoire Ponceludon de Malavoy, more than a gifted engineer, a decent man who cares for peasants, victims of mosquitoes-infested swamps in his region, the Dombes. Ponceludon needs money to drain the swamps, a costly project that only the King, fond on scientific innovations, can fund. The peasants' lives depend on Gregoire's ability to make his place in Versailles, in the King's Court, such a morally corrupted words that the stinks of the swamps seem more breathable.I NEVER LIVED IT DOWN To understand the violent nature inherent to this world where the word can be mightier than the sword, the film opens with quite a spectacular scene. A man comes to visit an elderly dying aristocrat Mr. de Bleyac, confined in a chair, and then urinates on him, a late reply to a humiliating 'bon mot' uttered in the past. Ridicule is indeed the worst curse that can ever strike an aristocrat in Versailles. Bleyac happened to be Ponceludon's contact in Versailles, You'll recognize him by his widow. said the Marquis de Bellegarde (Jean Rochefort), a doctor and eternal admirer (and not bad practicer) of wit and humor, and the widow is Fanny Ardant, magnificent as ever, as Madame de Bleyac, the powerful woman who can use her wits and charms to make any social ascension possible or not. The film is set in 1783, 6 years before French Revolution, when the liberal ideas of Voltaire and Montesquieu were on march, it's ironic that the very minds who were praising them couldn't see their own ends coming. The film works also as a slice of aristocratic life in its last breaths.HONESTY AND WIT ARE SO RARELY UNITED I've always been fascinated by historical movies set in the 18th Century, with all these flamboyant costumes and grandiloquent designs, it seems so unreal that such times ever existed, but I guess their value was to serve as a set-up for the most remarkable metamorphosis the Old World would know, before embracing modernity. Gregoire embodies this new generation, and it's not a hazard that he's befriended by Bellegarde, the doctor, who doesn't just admire the different uses of wit quips, word-plays, retorts, paradoxes but also honesty and decency. He plays a central role in the film as he both teaches Gregoire and the viewers about the Courts' etiquette, the do's and don'ts, like never laughing to one's own joke, and never making puns. Bellegarde's moralilty affected the education of his own daughter, the beautiful Mathilde (Judith Godreche) a free-spirited woman fond of scientific experimentations, and avoiding by any means, the corruption of Versailles court. She's the total opposite of Mme de Bleyac and the mirror of Ponceludon's corrupting process.WE'RE JUDGED BY THE COMPANY WE KEEP A MISJUDGEMENT, JUDAS KEPT EXCELLENT COMPANY Under the mentor-ship of Bellegarde, Ponceludon reveals himself a most witty mind and an excellent match to the wittiest of all, L'Abbé de Villecourt, a corrupted abbot and protégé of Madame de Bleyac, Bernard Gireaudeau in a scene-stealing performance. Beware of the abbot warns Bellegarde He's a snake. He watches in silence. When he speaks, it's too late. Indeed, an insult can take you at anytime and sometimes in the field of verbal sparring, the best defense is still the attack. Ridicule on that level, provides an abundance of verbal confrontations, reaching their pinnacle during a magnificent 'tournament of wit' meant to ridicule Ponceludon. One might lose a battle, but not the war, especially if he still has the last word.THE SOUL OF WIT IS TO KNOW ONE'S PLACE And this is only one of the layers that contribute to the film's greatness, with an extraordinary respect for the intelligence's viewer, Ridicule never takes its wit for granted but uses it to speak much more truthful statements about the way one conducts his own life. We can be our own enemies as sometimes, a beautiful moment in the sun can turn into a stormy disaster, simply with one unfortunate word. Any word said can be hold against its author, and some will learn this lesson the hard way.VOLTAIRE WOULD HAVE WEPT The film provides other unforgettable moments, deaf people proving that even the language of hands can make witty gestures, a suspenseful duel and a splendid climax. To Historical movie buffs and to French Language lovers, Ridicule is a must-see, a modern classic that deserved the Best Film César in 1996, and is so magnificently written that the fact that it didn't win a Cesar for Best Screenplay sadly fits the title. "},{"Title":"Oh France","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I picked up this French film from the library knowing nothing about it. The first scene was shocking, and I didn't know whether I was up for it. I'm not squeamish or grossed out by many things. I mean, I've seen another Frenchie called Irreversible, but it wasn't THAT kind of shock. Okay I'm going to ruin it. A guy urinates on another guy, and it shows it...pee and all. Anyway, I stuck it out (no pun intended), and the movie turned out to be funny and moving in the end. The acting, writing, and visual style were all great. If you can find it, give it a watch. It's a good example of French humor, which is far different than American humor and far more enlightening. "},{"Title":"Stylish Corruption","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Add my voice to those who like this fim and who find Fanny Ardent wonderful. But I think the transformation of Ponceledon du Malroy from someone I thought was at best awkward looking (or homely) to a refined and yes attractive man throroughly convincing. By the time he's finished I no longer considered him homely. The sub-titles of this movie are quite an achievement, managing at one point to rhyme, make the same point and deliver the punchline on the right beat - no small feat. It takes small hits over historical revisionism (uppity female nymphette-scientists?), and the re-use of a ruse mentioned in the early half of the film as the downfall of the protagonist.I don't understand a single reviewer who says the film is hysterical. I doubt you'll laugh out loud once. It's not that kind of movie. But it's pleasures are plentiful. And it's aimed squarely at adult viewers. "},{"Title":"'Vices are without consequence, but ridicule can kill'","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" RIDICULE deserved all the lavish praise it engendered upon its release in 1996. As a period piece (France in the final throes of King Louis XVI) it is one of the finest - visually, contextually, musically, AND it is wonderfully intelligent! Unlike many period pieces that serve as elegant decoration for meager stories, RIDICULE carries pungent statements about the decline of aristocracy and the whispers of the cause of democracy.A poor humanitarian travels from the ill swamps of Southern France to the court of Versailles to seek funding from the Royal Court to correct the deplorable living conditions ignored by the King. Upon arrival he finds a vapid society diverting attention from problems that plague the kingdom by inventing word games whose purpose is to find who can is best able to ridicule the fellow shallow players of this verbal chess game. Finding he has the gift to outclass the court with his verbal wit our humanitarian is 'accepted' into nobility and spars with the finest. For a while our humanitarian's focus is diffused by women, duels, and other diversions of the court until he finally regroups his cause and returns to the suffering sector from whence he came...with the ability to correct the conditions at last.The cast of Director Patrice Laconte's gem is exemplary and includes such fine actors as Charles Berling, Fanny Ardant, Jean Rochefort, Judith Godrèche, Bernard Giraudeau, and the mute role so sensitively performed by Bruno Zanardi (the one constant presence who keeps us reminded of just how absurdly low the court of France has fallen). The costumes by Christian Gasc (especially in the masked ball) are some of the more sumptuous ever created and the musical score by Antoine Duhamel and cinematography by Thierry Arbogast capture the atmosphere of both comedy and underling decay that makes this film so fine.Truly a film for those who enjoy double entendres and acerbic wit, this film grows better with repeated viewings. In French with English subtitles. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"A feast for the mind","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in the time just prior to the French Revolution, this wonderful film gives a view into the secretive world of the Court of Louis XIV, and the ins and outs involved in currying favours. Strong acting, clear plot and characters, and lush cinematography give this film something to seek out for one's entertainment.  The young heroine is one of the most truly beautiful heroines we've seen in a long time, and the witty repartee makes this a feast for the mind, as well. Make time for this movie, and you will not regret it. "}{"Title":"Entertaining, but I wish my French were better","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Ridicule (***1/2) A young landowner who petitions Louis XVI for help in making much-needed improvements on his estate discovers that a talent for wit and invective are the key to unlocking access to the King through an indifferent and corrupt bureaucracy.  Luckily, he has this talent.  In King Louis' court, even an entrenched favorite can become an outcast with just one misguided quip.  Some of the wit must have gotten lost in the translation (the epigram game makes little sense) and the supposedly sophisticated invective is usually along the lines of your butt is as wide as your mouth (or was it the other way around).  However the film is still quite enjoyable with a great looking production and some startling quirks (the opening scene, for example).  Fanny Ardant, as a noblewoman who takes a fancy to the young Baron, brings to mind the deviousness of Glenn Close in Dangerous Liaisons.  I liked the unusual talent of the landowner's true love  she's working on inventing an underwater diving suit. Incidentally, seeing this in the original widescreen Panavision is a must.  "},{"Title":"A little jewel of French cinema","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie should be seen in its original language version.The actors are great and the plot interesting, but what makes this movie so good are the dialogues. In fact, we have here a piece of art in dialogue writing. The subtlety of the French language is well used and, each time you see this movie, you find something new in the conversations. A has-to-be-seen movie for whom fancies the French language. "},{"Title":"Magnifique!","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a real treat in its caracterization, plot, costuming, scenery, camerawork, everything!  I just wish the translation were better - the French version of some of the dialogue was lost, not just because of language nuances but because of random omission of fairly important words and phrases.  Malheureusement, I don't think reading the English does the wonderful film justice.  Autrement, formidable! "},{"Title":"Wit!","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To get royal backing on a needed drainage project, a poor French lord must learn to play the delicate games of wit at court at Versailles.Now, I know what I am supposed to enjoy about this film is the game of wits played between all these wealthy French folks. And to a certain extent I do. I really enjoyed the rhyming contest, for example. And it made me wonder how the translator handled that, because the subtitles rhymed, but could not possibly have matched the original French.But what I actually liked most was the diving suit. That may be stupid, but as a genre fan, I love seeing makeup and costumes, and this old suit really looked great... sort of a sea monster meets robot look to it. Very cool. "},{"Title":"Direction Clouds The Film's Chance At Something Special","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From the eye-popping opening sequence, one could misinterpret Ridicule as a joke and maybe even a satire; thankfully that's not the case. The opening scene has a tone that differs from the film itself, to catch our eye or to draw our interests in a particular direction, as long as you keep your head above the spice of two minute experience, you will adjust to the rest of the film with ease.The lack of focus and direction is the problem with the first half of Ridicule. The film has trouble identifying its plot and characters to the audience, not artistically introducing them or having significant meaning underneath the mise-en-scene, but in the simpler ways of tell the story itself to the viewer. The jumbled editing, mixed with the fast pace directing, leaves the viewer in ambiguous territory. Ridicule does redeem itself in its second half by continuing to grow and play with its characters. The characters are well penned, as are the ideas of the story. To comprehend the absurdity of the film's context is to understand French culture at the time Ridicule takes place and the upper class's failure to conjure up a meaning of life other than trying to defame other people of stature. I enjoyed Ridicule and respect it more as I think back on everything that went into making the film. The sets and costumes fit the time well, it's a pleasant film to look at, and the acting (though nothing sterling) meets the requirements of the script. Take your time, have patience, and Ridicule could be a respectable film. Rating 7Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Good but social messages mess it up","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Court of Louis XVI 6 years prior to the Bastille. A country Baron Gregoire Ponceludon de Malavoy wants to drain swamps on his land and needs help from the government he is turned down and appeals to the King. What trying to do that was like is the gist of the film.Wonderful portrayal of the decadent lives lived by courtesans at that time. Wit (Esprit) was an admired quality often leading to-- Ridicule--of the victim(s). There are too many wonderful scenes to count but here is where the movie messes up = it gets into womens lib (Matilde the scientist) and social justice themes (the deaf) too much they were not needed and extremely unlikely.Although life at Versailles was exaggerated that can go as an artistic point (to make things funnier and more outrageous)...but the odds of Ponceludon succeeding in his swamp work during the decade after the revolution are zero.If you can over look these story flaws it is an entertaining movie.Recommend "},{"Title":"Excellent Foreign Period Piece","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ridicule is a fabulous French movie of the mid-90's that I recently checked out for viewing. It runs a brisk run-time replete with sharp characters and a highly interesting theme of Wit, and how it seemed to dominate the atmosphere and subject of French Aristocratic social occasions. I thoroughly enjoyed the whole cast and direction on all levels of support. The protagonist was mostly admirable less one complete lapse in judgment and plan. (spoiler) The duel was mesmerizing, and the relationships all built on one another. Perhaps best of all was the early third of the movie with the father Belgarde aiding Malevoy in his quest to a greater cause, not out of honor or cause, but for the wit he saw in him. The layers of superficiality are stunning. This movie is as good or better as Amadeus. A great watch that starts out a bit slow of pace. "},{"Title":"Cultured rights-of-passage feel-good period melange","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A period drama set in the world of the salons, cliques where wit or at least an acid tongue rule.Le Marquis Grégoire Ponceludon de Malavoy comes to court as an idealistic 'nobleman-engineer' hoping to secure royal funding to drain the marshes that afflict the local peasants with malaria.Redolent of Dangerous Liaisons but with a cause. Gregoire arrives thinking that his cause speaks for itself, is politically educated by the totty's father, shines, engages in the sexual intrigue, gets the girl, saves a bit of the world.Very, very enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"the virtue of wit undone only by dignity and love","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A period piece drama, 'Ridicule' unfolds as a man (Le Marquis Grégoire Ponceludon de Malavoy - Charles Berling) tries to assist the desperate and dying people that struggle in the swamps of southern France.  What ensues is an enthralling ascent up the ranks of the French court at Versailles by this clever countryman, once dismissed as a backward rustic, in an attempt to consult the kKng. The name of the game is wit.  Aside from the malicious Abbot, the stuffy imbred aristrocrats can hardly keep up with the Malavoy's punishing tongue. Unfortunately, most of the invigorating wordplay of the script is lost in translation.  Still, the film is comprehensible and the story holds, though the French is at times delicious. The women of the movie are well portrayed a sinister Madame de Blayac intrigues, a lovely Mathilde de Bellegarde enchants. An 8, all in all.  A good story, impressive production detail, persuasive historical recreation, solid script, honest photography. Serious where Dangerous Liasons was slight - the details. Plus, the lead women are meticulously rounded and the film's aftertaste speaks substance not sap-opera. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie a couple of times and I think it is a great presentation of a different world (the world of Louis XVI).The wit and humour is great, although I saw it subtitled and the modest French I know helped a lot because the spoken language is a big part of the movie.Even has a happy ending! "}{"Title":"rich portrait of doomed decadence","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  On the surface, this film  examines the culture of verbal cruelty and the strange sport of making people into unwitting buffoons as these evolved over generations in the court of the Kings Louis of France. On a deeper level, however, it is a tableau of doomed decadence the courtiers and Royals inhabit such an isocentric world, so arrogantly contemptuous and unconcerned with the citizenry over which they rule and so passionately obsessed with gaining status within a frivolous internicine hierarchy of their own making that, as you watch all this, you get an almost chilling realization of the inevitability of the bloody revolution to come. If nothing else, it's a marvelous sort of diagram of a social dialectic and it's presumably all based in fact. The film it most reminded me of, oddly enough, was the American high school based black comedy Heathers, in which a similarly corrupt social hierarchy is toppled, but in a more artificial, movie-ish fashion. "},{"Title":"The Right Wing is bankrupting the nation.","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ridicule was deadly in the time of Louis IV. This Oscar-nominated Best Foreign Film (losing to the excellent Kolja) explores the aristocracy before Louis lost his head.One could scarcely imagine those who were so idle that they prized wit above all else, and had rules for displaying it. Wit, to the French, was different than the English humor.A baron, Ponceludon de Malavoy (Charles Berling) is trying to get the Court to pay for draining the marshes on his property. The old Marquis de Bellegarde (Jean Rochefort), takes him as a protégée and teaches him that wordplay can be more powerful than swordplay in appealing to the aristocracy.Patrice Leconte (Monsieur Hire, The Hairdresser's Husband) has another winner here. The story of language and court intrigue is funny and fascinating. "},{"Title":"Laugh Like A Drain","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Leconte followed this with Une Chance sur deux as if to emphasise his versatility and mastery of all genres. On the one hand an ultra modern piece involving two over-the-hill iconic 'hard' men taking on the highly organized Drug Barons with all the car chases, technology and explosions that go with that territory and on the other the ultra sophisticated world of Versailles where the biggest crime is to utter a sentence that falls flat. Out of a premise that finds a Nobleman caring about the peasantry enough to journey to the Court and attempt to gain the ear of the King in order to win Royal investment to underwrite an engineering project to drain marshland Leconte has concocted a confection to delight both the eye and the ear in a world where the ultimate goal is neither money or sex but the perfect epigram. There are four principals and all shine and if Fanny Ardant and Jean Rochefort come out marginally ahead of Charles Berling and Judith Godreche well, she IS drop-dead gorgeous and he IS an all-round consummate Actor's Actor. Not for everyone but even here the usual excuse of not speaking French is flimsy given the excellent subtitles on the DVD. A soufflé prepared exclusively with Faberge eggs. "},{"Title":"French uppity aristocracy back with a vengeance.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Refreshing perspective on aristocratic code of honor fares better at captivating audience than the sumptuous breasts of Judith Godreche or the love innuendo advertised on the movie's jacket--which is just an excuse for the rest of the film turns of exquisitely ridiculous moments and unblinking vicious cruelty. The seriousness of the matter is well-carved out, and although the nature of the story is comical, the end product is flavored with melancholy. I remember Jam being a fresh movie which in the same way as this one took the art of verbal communication to a level beyond mere dialogue, and essentially a driving force for the movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"For English speakers the beauty is in the subtitles","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's not what you say, it's the way that you say it. I found the combination of the beauty of the spoken word together with the start of science as we now know it the strength of this movie. The semi-happy and obligatory ending was a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Wit was King in pre-revolutionary France.","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite films. There are several story lines - the primary is about a young noble named Ponceludon wishing to drain his swamps in the Dombs, and seeking help from the Court of Louis the XV. What makes the film so memorable are the quips our hero makes. What a wonderful script! Although the film does not explain the differences between the peasants and the nobility which eventually led to the French Revolution, it does include scientific interests of the day and references to Pascal's writings, and the discovery of sign language for the deaf.See it for the sumptuous costuming, the script, the gorgeous art design and the beautiful leading ladies. "},{"Title":"Witty and fun. A sumptuous feast for the senses.","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ridicule is one of those movies that begs not to be taken seriously, which is rather easy to oblige when one is shown a male's penis as part of a comical introduction to the film. However, it's quite easy to note that the use of witty remarks is almost entirely damaging to someone or everyone so there appears to be a serious social comment in the works. Me? I mostly sat back and enjoyed the show. I got a kick out of the humorous lines, enjoyed the beautiful photography and richly detailed costumes, and delighted in the well above average performances. "},{"Title":"Good film, strong cast","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film... I found it to be deeply engrossing andwitty.  I have never been a huge fan of French cinema, but Ioccasionally something very wonderful spoken with no  consonants.The characters breathed and lived for me... the atmosphere wastense and palpable... and the camera work was phenomenal(really evoking that feeling that we all have when we have saidsomething truly stupid, or over-the-line).The plot did not particularly interest me and the strange asideswith the SCUBA gear were a little distracting (although I am surethey must parallel the action of the main plot somehow, but I amunsure how).  However, the rest of the film was nearly flawless...Definitely worth a rental... especially if you enjoy verbal repartee. "},{"Title":"It has its good points","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a lot to like about Ridicule. Splendid costumes, gorgeous Versaillais architecture and painting, and a pretty historically accurate portrayal of the absurdity and the confusion playing out at the Versailles court on the eve of the Revolution (on the one hand, they will all maintain that they are devout Catholics; on the other hand, they court libertine philosophers and more or less openly engage in grotesquely immoral--often sexually charged--war games of wit). The premise is interesting, the acting is grand and the atmosphere is terrific.Where the movie loses points is in its philosophical moralizing. The film does not make it a point to distinguish the character of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette from that of their courtiers. Although the film does not actually portray them doing anything they would not actually have done (they were, indeed, deeply ingrained into the life of their court), by not holding them out the film does give us the impression that they were every bit as trashy and apathetic as the courtiers (in fact, they were most certainly not) and that they deserved their ultimate lot in the French Revolution (and any historian even slightly to the right of Karl Marx agrees that they most certainly did not).Near the end of the film the protagonist, the Marquis de Malavoy, countryside aristocrat who has learned the court games simply in an attempt to petition Louis XVI for help with his land and for his feudal tenants, castigates the courtiers for their hypocrisy. He cites their invocation of Voltaire, a man filled with compassion! as evidence. But anyone who knows anything about Voltaire knows that he was quite the snob himself.Moreover, the ending, which implies that Malavoy, the compassionate aristocrat, now lives well in Revolutionary France, gives the false impression that it was his openness to liberalism that had permitted him to stay rather than go into exile. In actuality, it was precisely in places such as Malavoy's holdings, where feudal ties were strongest and aristocrats remained landed rather than absentee, that resistance to the revolution was also the strongest--and most tragic. Anyone ever hear of a place called Vendée? The people there stood in defense of their patriarchs, their Church and the House of Bourbon--and hundreds of thousands paid the ultimate price for not wanting to recognize a Parisian regime they regarded as criminal as having the right to unilaterally redo the physiognomy of their socio-political landscape.And speaking of physiognomy, let me just comment on the... ugly faces. I don't know whether it's the makeup, but Fanny Ardent looks as though her face might kill as humiliatingly as ridicule does. The court of Versailles must have been teaming with fresh flesh, and I'm not at all convinced a priest would break his vow of celibacy for the likes of her. And, My bedroom is known to lead to the throne room? Uh... yeah, THAT line really makes up in charm what she lacks in looks. Uh-huh. And Judith Godrèche, who is normally quite lovely, is done up just horribly... her face and hairdo are so tomboyish that it's a wonder she survives at a place like Versailles. And while the makeup on the men may be historically accurate, it is not applied in a very charismatic fashion, as though the filmmakers were trying to give us something to laugh at.The ambiance is good, but the script is disappointing and nauseating. I think one can do better for a quiet evening alone. "},{"Title":"Tedious Liaisons","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" **Bien sur** the biggest reason to watch this movie is Paris-born blonde Judith Godreche. Not a great actress but oh, that face, and those boobs so generously displayed in period costume. She was twenty-three when the film was shot but looks younger. Mlle. Godreche was to appear opposite superstar Leonardo Di Caprio in The Man in the Iron Mask two years after this. Had she been easier to work with and taken a few acting lessons she might have made movies in Hollywood earning ten times what the miserly French would pay. She does not have enough scenes here--one of this ornate and overlong film's several shortcomings.Apart from the obligatory love triangle sub-plot, the story concerns a country gentleman **cum** engineer who decides he must petition King Louis XVI, France's last absolute monarch, to obtain financial backing for his scheme to drain the swamps in his home region and so rid it of the mosquito infestation and fevers that make life there near impossible. While nearing the Royal Palace at Versailles this young man, played adequately if not electrifyingly by Charles Berling, is the victim of an eighteenth century mugging.The hero is next seen at the house of a well-connected doctor, who later agrees to take him in and instruct him in the art of witty repartee which will be his **entree** to the royal court. Played by cinema veteran Jean Rochefort, the doctor as a physician is no better than his times and treats the young man's injuries by thoroughly, almost fatally, bleeding him. The hero, however is well ahead of his time having apparently made the connection between mosquitoes and malaria, at least fifty years before anyone else!The doctor has a beautiful daughter (Mlle. Godreche) but she is betrothed at the film's start to a very wealthy noble not twice but three times her age. The reason why she and her father agree to this union is not credible but it does lead to a brief scene in a notary's office, authentic to the last quill pen, where the three of them hammer out what would today be called a **pre-nup**.Essential for any period film, the **decors**, costumes, makeup all are faultless.After an endless succession of parties, formal dinners, royal audiences and a masked ball, it all works out for the best--apparently. We know from history that the rainwater pools of the Dombe region were significantly reduced in extent and life there improved just after the Revolution. It is worth mentioning that the third side of the triangle is a Pompadour-type character, a political mistress to the King, played well enough given the material by the tall and elegant, forty- something Fany Ardant. "}{"Title":"la dolce vita ala francaise in the Court just before the lights went down","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very fine movie clever and witty.If the morality of the French courtiers was the one that the film shows it to be then the Revolution did very well to destroy the Old Regime. The film is a good evocation of the epoch with lots of esprit and world-play but such callousness towards other people's problems deeply offended my moral sensibilities and made the character played superbly by Fanny Ardant, despite her beauty and wit, repugnant to me.The same applies to the smart alec Abbe and the callous military officer. The central hero is a responsible and progressive fellow whom I liked very much as well his scientifically inclined fiancée.The movie is about the clash of the mores of the courtiers and those seeking a more rationalistic order of things. I side with the second.It is a splendid movie which displays the moral climate of the privileged of the privileged, that means according to sources the tiny portion of 4.000 presentees, that is the cream of the nobility which was 2% of the population anyhow.How could the French people put up with such drones remains a mystery to me, there must be some historical explanation which eludes me, but this is a film, not a historical treatise. As such it must be judged and it comes out very well. "},{"Title":"Mild With an Occasional Punch","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interesting, sometimes startling, amusing, but a little arch.  A slight film, entertaining, but not for every taste.  Rarely does the film deliver the kind of punch of the opening scene so don't let that induce any expectations. "},{"Title":"Pretty to look at and well-made but not something I'd like to see every day","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is pretty to look at and well made, but I have always felt very indifferent from costume dramas--particularly those involving a lot of rich French aristos who spend all their time talking and congratulating themselves on their exceedingly high sense of self-importance. When I watched the old MGM film, MARIE ANTOINETTE, I found it to be dull and when I saw more recent films like DANGEROUS LIASONS, VALMONT and RIDICULE, I also thought they were awfully dull. Now I know many have enjoyed them and I wish them well, but these films all place so much emphasis on costumes, hair and the irrelevant trappings of extreme wealth. By the way, I am a history teacher and often I love historical films, but perhaps it's the annoying American in me that isn't particularly interested in noblemen and women--I much prefer films about REAL people--REAL people I can connect with. I am not saying that the vacuous people in these films aren't real but that it was sure hard to care about them or get into the films. In fact, I really think the best value in RIDICULE is illustrating just how worthless the aristos were in France and how ripe they were for revolution--sort of like a non-surreal and non-humorous version of a Buñuel film such as THE DISCRETE CHARM OF THE BOURGEIOSE.If you ask me, I'd much rather watch an old classic about the French Revolution, such as A TALE OF TWO CITIES or THE SCARLET PIMPERNELL--they're just a lot more interesting and I care much more about the characters. "},{"Title":"Subject is good and thats it","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An engineer just before French revolution is trying to find his way up in the court. He has wits and guts but the game is bigger than his assumption.The subject of the film is very good but the story line is very trite, banal, old, done a 100 times etc etc. Hope you know what i mean. Engineer falls in love with one girl and a countess fancy him as her next best ticket to court. Movie becomes a yawn because of this 4000000 years old plot and loses its novelty after 20 minutes. Except for a few scenes movie has nothing to offer. Technically even subject is not very original because if you get to see it 'Vanity Fair', 'Shree 420', 'Raju Ban Gaya Gentleman' are based on the same concept but its a period drama and talks directly about cartoons of french courts so its funny. First scene is very powerful. I hope all french people did that on Louis 17th and his maniac wife. Back to film. Film doesn't hold any water. It goes haywire and becomes boring after 20 minutes. I wonder what this hoopla about 2 thumbs up three thumbs? Still!! rent it for the first scene.There are very few international films in which you are distracted by technical mistakes. This is one of those. Editing is very bad. Childish mistakes like a man looking in two directions. Camera work is artsy and very distracting. For example Camera is moving from a man's point of view while he is riding a horse but the swiftness of the camera is of airplane. Its worse than amateurish. I couldn't identify characters even until the end of the film. Prettly lame. All the actors are also just OK. In my opinion its very passable. Rent it watch the first scene and send it back. Don't bother about the rest because you know everything already.By the way why 90% of the poster is Judith Godrèche? I think thats just another inconsistency. Its like putting Karen Alens pic on the raiders of the lost arc poster instead of Ford. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good movie but not great","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This really was a good movie. Not a disapointment. It was everything that could be expected from it however it did not go any further. Overall it was pretty tight and well acted directed and performed. There were some really great shots as well. eg. one near the start where a guy rides a horse along a sloping but flat hill and the horison looks to be at an angle. Great original shot and also some very nice women to look at. Other then that though the story is not that spectacular. It seems the movie suffers from the directors indecision whether to make this outrageous and hilareous and over the top or to subltly slide in well worked wit and keep it fairly serious. I would have prefered to see the latter just because I've seen a few ridiculous over the top French movies. It is a good insight into Versailles and 16th century France but again does not quite do the trick for me because it does not quite feel real. The film does succeed though in the end I think. Although I just think it could have been a tad better.  "},{"Title":"Dubitative about this movie. Some great ideas but...","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the most terrible thing in the movie is, in my opinion, the bad acting of Charles Berling, and the very bad acting of Judith Godrèche. They're romance is not very well exposed, except maybe the scene of the knee underlined by Steve Rhodes in his review.The rituals in the french court, the manners, the languages' game are interesting. The dialogs are pretty well written. There are some great scenes, like the one of the duel. Some characters are well played, first of all the Jean Rochefort character, very moving. Bernard Giraudeau is also great, and Fanny Ardant as well (but I have a personnel problem with her acting in general).The systematic construction between the scenes is a bit annoying, as well as the false return of Grégoire in the middle, before his too-much predictable come-back.The movie is alright, the directing correct (sometimes great), but it misses something to make it a film I'd like to see again. "},{"Title":"Lipstick & Pee","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In an opening scene to _Ridicule_, we get to see a presumably actual penis pee presumably actual pee, unconsenting golden shower-style!We also get to see men wear lipstick!Those French!I love, 'em!We also see a woman who's rather too beautiful to convincingly play a 1700's female science nerd on a quest to invent the diving suit.But she needed to be pretty or the film's hero would not have taken a love interest in her.I must say I did enjoy this nice period piece all in all, however.  I vote 7.Off to buy some lipstick!  (As soon as I pee.)  "},{"Title":"Only half witty.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ridicule is a not-to-be-taken-seriously French period piece (circa 1780's) which tells of a young hydraulics engineer who seeks royal funds to drain foul marshes to protect peasants from disease. His problem is to work his way into the King's court where the witty repartee of aristocrats rules the day. The film is an excellent period production though a bit stilted, somewhat bland and lacking passion, and not as witty as one would expect a film about wit to be. Most filmgoers will likely be bored with the meager story and so-so humor. Recommended for devotees of Euro period flicks only. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It takes place in pre-revolutionary France Where Louis-whoever ruled, but wit was king.  The French have a long, long way to go in the wit department, if this movie is the best they can come up with.  According to this movie, at any rate, their idea of wit is peeing on an elderly stroke victim who once insulted you, and such sparkling exchanges asCourtier A You're not as stupid as you look.Courtier B That's the main difference between you and me.In the next scene, Courtier B is congratulated on his cleverness. Too bad Courtier A didn't come back with, Are you suggesting that I AM as stupid as you look?  Then they'd've congratulated him instead. "}]