[{"Title":"An Adequate Adaptation...","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...for a King work  they've always had a mixed track record. Generally this one is a tribute to the F/X wizardry as Robert John Burke goes through multiple transformations.  That in itself is pretty horrifying.  Most of the King subtleties have been sucked out of it, but what's new?  It's basically a decent supernatural thriller.  There is a slow, relentless horror to the whole thing, which doesn't rely on huge jump out of the closet shocks (although there are a few of those).  Basically a horror movie for adults. "},{"Title":"The Gypsy Curse","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When a gypsy caravan arrives in Fairview, the conservative judge Phillips (Howard Erskine) forces the gypsies to leave town. Meanwhile the gluttony lawyer Billy Halleck (Robert John Burke), who has difficulties to reduce his weight, successfully defends the mobster Ritchie Ginelli (Joe Mantegna) in court; during the night, he celebrates with his partner and wives in a dinner party. While driving back home, his wife Heidi (Lucinda Jenney) makes oral sex with Billy and he runs over the old gypsy Suzanne Lempke (Irma St. Paule), the daughter of the patriarch Tadzu Lempke (Michael Constantine). During the trial, Billy omits the reason of the accident; the chief of police Duncan Hopley (Daniel von Bargen) perjuries; and the bigoted judge declares Billy not- guilty for the accident. On the next day, Billy, Duncan and Phillips are cursed by Tadzu that puts a hex on each one of them. Billy gets thinner and thinner and while seeking out Tadzu to ask him to remove the spell, he suspects that his wife is having an affair with his doctor and friend Mike Houston (Sam Freed). Billy feels that his life is running out and asks for help to Ritchie to convince Tadzu using his method to call off the jinx. The creepy Thinner is an underrated and one of my favorite horror movies based on a Stephen King's novel. The special effects and make-up were state-of-art in 1996 and even thirteen years later, they are very good. With the exception of Billy'/s daughter, all characters are corrupt in some level and deserve their fate. A couple of months ago, I saw another good movie based on the same theme - a gypsy curse &#x96; Sam Raimi's Drag me to Hell. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Maldição (The Curse) "},{"Title":"One of the Better King Stories","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy Halleck (Robert John Burke) hits an old gypsy woman with his car, and with the help of his lawyer and judge friends gets away without even a traffic fine. Unfortunately for him, he cannot use legal maneuvers to get the gypsy curse off of him! Stephen King has one of the worst track records for film adaptations. For every great film (Green Mile, Shawshank Redemption, Shining) there are some real piles of rubbish. And any number of films in between. This one, luckily, is closer to the good end. Some have pooh-poohed it, but I found it pretty enjoyable.Beyond the main story, which was average, the film comes alive due to Joe Mantegna's portrayal of Richie Ginelli. Mantegna, who you may know from Criminal Minds or as the voice of Fat Tony from The Simpsons, is pretty great as violence incarnate. When he unleashes his vengeance on the gypsies, you almost have to feel bad for them, as you admire his tenacious bloodlust.I have heard people complain about the ending, which apparently varies from the novel. I have also heard that the novel has more intricate subtleties that the movie overlooked. I do not have the novel, so I cannot comment on that, beyond saying that I really enjoyed the ending. I can't say what it is, but I found it very appropriate.Burke's Clint Eastwood voice may be a bit dramatic, but I did not mind... oh, and Kari Wuhrer appears, as well... though does little more than provide a dash of sex appeal. "},{"Title":"Decent flick but WAY over-dramatized","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have always been a big fan of the novel Thinner, by Richard Bachman (Stephen King). It strays from the typical horror/gore plot, and focuses a lot more on issues of class warfare and social injustices. I have always seen this book as the story of a WASPy rich white lawyer having his bubble burst and being forced into a sort of compassion for the Gypsies and drifters of this world.This movie was decent, not great. If you're going to watch it because you liked the book, be warned that almost every major plot event has been exaggerated and Hollywood-ized to the point of ridiculousness.For example, instead of Richard Ginelly being the gentlemanly and sophisticated Mafia don from the novel, the movie portrays him as a bloodthirsty maniac who can't be stopped once he's started his work. I noticed this in the film adaptation of Shawshank Redemption as well.. It's a shame that filmmakers feel that the average moviegoer won't enjoy subtlety or sophistication. They obviously feel that they need to whack us over the head with their films in order to get their points across.Rent this flick if you're a fan of movies like Sleepwalkers or the more recent films in the Hellraiser series... definitely entertaining, but unfortunately, not something I can take completely seriously. "},{"Title":"Decent Thriller, Doesn't Live Up to Book","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie on TV a few years back. I'd read the book before seeing the movie, and I've read the book a second time recently, after seeing the movie. And I think I can safely say that 'Thinner' is a decent attempt, but doesn't live up to the book.The movie is based on Stephen King's 'Thinner'. It is based around an obese small-town lawyer, Billy Halleck (Robert Burke), who has a curse put on him by a gypsy (Michael Constantine), after running over his daughter with his car. Halleck leaves his wife (Lucinda Jenny) and daughter (Joie Lenz), to find the gypsy and get the curse that is steadily making him thin reversed, before it is too late.Like another reviewer said, this movie seems really TV movie-ish. The only actor I recognize in this movie is the typecasted Joe Mantegna. The rest I've never heard of before or since this movie. For the most part the movie is faithful to the book. But, it lacks much of the vivid detail of the book. Also, the main character is far more tame in the movie. Though, as I said, most of the actors I've never heard of before or since, they do a very good job in this movie. After seeing the movie, I can't picture anyone else playing the roles they did. And the make-up effects are amazing.Overall, a decent movie. Could've better captured the spirit of the book. You could find a worse way to spend two hours.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Macbre Weight-loss Film","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you're a big fan of Stephen King and want to see a film that stays true to the book, then this one will please. Thinner is the story of an obese lawyer, Billy Halleck, who kills a gypsy woman with his car. When the local judge and sheriff cover up the accident and let Billy off the hook, a gypsy curse is put on all of them.One of the big things about this film that gave it it's publicity (besides Stephen King's name) was in the costume work done on Billy Halleck's weight-loss transformation. I think, given how daunting a task this was, that a good job was done. I did notice they forgot to augment his fingers to compensate with his body mass.Thinner is delivered with what might be described as (forgive me) a second or third-string acting class - actors who deliver good roles but aren't chart toppers or as well known (Joe Mantegna, Kari Wuhrer, etc.). King's story teeters a bit when Billy and the gypsies begin playing a game of tit for tat. And the ending, although poetic with its Edgar Allan Poe touch, comes off as oh brother! 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not the worst King adaption, but definitely not the best either","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From what I've heard, this is a fairly faithful adaption of the Stephen King story of the same name, but I've never read the book myself. The plot is decent, but somewhat ridiculous... and the pacing is awful. I was bored for most of the other half of this movie, despite it only being about 90 minutes long. The acting varies, but it's mostly bad... Kari Wuhrer displays a particularly obvious lack of talent, and Robert John Burke proves that he doesn't have the charisma or talent to carry a movie. Actually, Joe Mantegna pretty much steals the show, and every scene that doesn't involve him has you bored and wanting to see him again. The humor in the film is actually surprisingly good. There are some pretty good exchanges of dialog, and, as a nice variation from the typical King film-adaption, most of the laughs are intentional(though there are a few parts which still seem lame and make you laugh, as opposed to seeming scary and frighten you). The special effects vary, but for the most part, they are quite good. The films gore and violence may be a little over the top, and is definitely extreme, though there isn't terribly much of it in the film(but when there is, it's very graphic), but it didn't bother me as much as I had expected, from hearing it described by someone who has seen the film. Since I haven't really seen any other films by the director, Tom Holland, I can't say if fans of him will like this film. One thing that the fans of King will surely enjoy is that he himself has a role in this, and a pretty easily recognizable one, at that(not the typical somewhere-in-the-immediate-background cameo that writers/directors typically have). All in all, fairly enjoyable horror, but not something that you'll want to see many times. I recommend it to big fans of Stephen King, huge fans of the various actors, and people who just enjoy watching somewhat uneven films just for the heck of it. 5/10 "},{"Title":"One Of The Better King Adaptations","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This creepy, unsettling thriller is one of the more under-rated movies that have been adapted from Stephen King's stories (Lord knows there have been plenty of absolutely horrid ones).  There are some gruesome scenes, but credit director Tom Holland (who also wrote and helmed the classic horror-comedy Fright Night) for lending what could have been hoary B-Movie material a heaping helping of style....there are moments where what is suggested is far more dreadful than what could have been shown.  And I appreciate Holland's fight to keep the book's bleak ending after the studio supposedly tried to bully him into shooting a happier, more upbeat one.  Robert John Burke is very good as the afflicted man, but Joe Mantegna almost steals the film as a gangster (once successfully defended in court by Burke's lawyer character) who tries to repay the favor by helping Burke get payback from the gypsies who jinxed him.Like the book, the movie has scenes which will stay with you long after it's all over.  Recommended.   My rating  ***stars "},{"Title":"Lead Actor made it work...","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" King adapted movies either work or they don't. Horror type flicks are very hard to do well. This did have a made-for-TV feel about it similar to other King flicks, but imo, the reason this was acceptable was in large part due to the acting and casting of Robert John Burke. Can you imagine seeing this man walk his dog at night? He seems outside the human race somehow&#133;I guess that's why they choose acting as a profession. He so not normal. His voice quality was over the top, Simpson-esq in quality like in a cartoon&#133;but that worked here.Joe Mantegna and Michael Constantine were excellent. As stated previously, Kari Wuhrer is smokin' hot. Too bad she looks exactly like that Doritos girl who is on a UON stupid sitcom now. I guess you can't have two Doritos girls in Hollyweird.You gotta love IMDb.com to look up all the work these actors have done. I knew I saw Burke and Wuhrer's face before but couldn't place them. I thought Michael Constantine was James Coco&#133;but only tonight I saw Constantine in The Hustler w/Paul Newman, one of his first roles. IMDb confirmed this.Even found out Joe's wife owns a pizza place in Burbank...need to stop by. "},{"Title":"Supernatural terror for a curse against a fat  lawyer","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The corpulent Billy Halleck(Robert James Burke)is a successful advocate in law. While he's driving along with his wife(Lucinda Jenney), he accidentally hits a gypsy with his car and run. Then he's cursed by an old gypsy(Michael Constantine) and his gorgeous daughter(Kari Wuher) with a continuous weight loss. With the complicity of local judge and the sheriff (Daniel Von Bargen)Billy is absolved. Furthermore, Billy is friend of a local mobster named Richie(Joe Mantegna) who is determined to save him, originating a cruel vendetta.Thinner was written by Stephen King in 1984, based on horror master bestselling novel of the same name, under pseudonym Richard Bachman . Early the 90s, Warner Brothers attempted cinema rendition with John Candy, but death actor made the pre-production failed. The Paramount Pictures took the production with interesting script by Tom Holland(Langoliers) and Michael Mc Dowell( screenwriter of Beetlejuice and Tales from the darkside). Casting is frankly decent, Robert James Burke(usual of director Hal Hartley), recently his success in Robocop 3, Joe Mantegna(usual of David Mamet,Things change,House of games,Homicide),the beautiful Kari Wuher(Anaconda,Sliders). Besides, as always, habitual cameo by Stephen King as Dr. Bangor. The film displays adequate musical score fitting to terror and suspense by Daniel Licht The motion picture is professionally directed by Tom Holland(Fright night,Child's play), a director expert in horror and suspense movies. The result is better than previous Stephen king adaptation, the mediocre, Running man. Rating  Acceptable and passable picture, well worth watching for Stephen King fond. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as the critics say.","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie opens with a caravan of gypsies (complete with campers, station wagons filled with belongings and small trailers) driving into a small town.Your lead character Billy Halleck, played by Robert John Burke, is obviously wearing what the movie industry terms as a fat-boy or fat suit. The witticisms exchanged between the family members is shallow, hollow and plastic. There is no feel of family there at all.I won't detail the movie, scene by scene, but the courtroom scene which follows is convincing and believable, as is the bonding scene which comes after between Billy and the Italian business man.That's where the movie takes a turn for the worst.Again, if you do not read Stephen King's books, then these points won't bother you at all. There are way too many holes in the story. There are entire scenes from the book, omitted from the theatrical work.It has a definite Hunchback of Notre Damme feel to it in its gypsies are evil, sexually promiscuous, caucasian-hating parasites way of treating those of Romanian/Carpathian descent, as did the book, but it was the effects that kept me amazed.When things start to go wrong in the storyline, so do they go wrong in the effects department. Nothing looked as it should. As the lead character begins to lose weight, so does the script and the effects. His fat suits look better as he begins to return to his real weight, but then as he begins to grow thinner, the baaaaaad effects are back; and with a vengeance. I won't even talk about the lizard-like judge. His effects were even worse.Good story, bad direction, horrible effects. Read the book, THEN watch the movie so you'll understand how nasty this movie was, complete with bad fat jokes, insensitive jibes and poor taste.I like the movie, but I wanted to love it like I did the book, and just couldn't.It gets a 5/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Hard to believe a film can be so thin, yet so thick","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You'll notice that the chemist, who appears in two scenes and gets to speak, is played by Stephen King.  Don't give up your day job is the standard thing to say, but that's not fair.  King acquits himself reasonably well he's no worse than any other member of the cast, and better than most.  The story, on the other hand, is pure rubbish.  Please, give up your day job.Never have I seen so many dreadful performances - of which the lead actor's (the LEAD ACTOR'S!) is probably the worst - gathered together in the one film.  Everyone acts hammily, but not in any entertaining way; they all somehow manage to go over-the-top without expending, or manifesting, energy.  I blame screenwriter/director Tom Holland.  It can't be that ALL the actors are REALLY this bad.  What are the odds against that?  Admittedly, I've never heard of any of them before, but still, I don't think I could walk into a talent agency and walk out with this many bad performers if I tried ONE actor, despite my best efforts, would turn out to have talent.  So what's more likely - that Tom Holland rolled a dozen consecutive snake-eyes, or that he wrote a lousy script and then directed it poorly?  That would also explain why actors are bad in direct proportion to their prominence in the script.  The more direction an actor got, the worse he performed.  (You want me to bend over like a hunchback, talk from the back of my throat, show all my teeth, and look bored, all at the same time?  Okay...)This theory is confirmed by the fact that Holland undeniably managed to co-write a lousy script.  Several writers here have commented on the fact that Billy Halleck is not a likeable character, but that's a misleading way of putting it.  He's not a knowable character.  All we find out about him before the supernatural stuff starts happening is that he's fat, and that all he can think about is food.  (All I can think about is food, he tells us, helpfully.)  And in the end...(Sigh) I suppose I ought insert a spoiler warning here...In the end he becomes evil.  Why?  I can only shrug.  Perhaps he's under some kind of enchantment.  Yeah, that's probably it.  By evil perhaps I mean inexplicable - it's not so much badness as a socially undesirable suspension of ordinary means-end psychology.  Anyway, his actions at the end make no sense, nobody's actions make much sense, and this is despite the fact that the characters do little but explain their motivation for the benefit of the audience.By the way, here's my nominee for hammiest line/delivery I don't think you'd like it.  IN FACT... big dramatic pause ...I don't think you'd like it at all. "},{"Title":"Extremely Underrated Horror Film.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When a successful lawyer from Maine (Robert John Burke) accidentally killed a old gypsy woman. Then her much older father (Micheal Constantine) puts a curse on him by losing weight instantly but also dying slowly from the inside. He can't losing weight until the curse is broken.Directed by Tom Holland (Child's Play, Fright Night, The Langoliers) made a terrific thriller. This has excellent make-up effects by two time Oscar-winner Greg Cannon (Bram Stoker's Dracula, The Lost Boys, White Chicks). Burke pulls off an amazing performance in this. This was not see by many people, which this is a underrated film. This is a cult classic to be sure. Based on a novel by Richard Bachman (The Running Man), which is actually Stephen King.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an strong-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an behind the scenes feautrette and an entertaining commentary track by the director and actorJoe Mantegna (Who has an supporting role as a gangster). This is a fascinating horror film is loaded with dark humor. Written by the director and Micheal Mc Dowell (Bettlejuice). (**** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Great Horror-Comedy from King","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anyone who can seriously watch this movie and not take it as a more than just a fun horror romp is reading too much into the name of KING.Stephen KING has a sense of humor, folks. Otherwise, he wouldn't have concocted such a nutty yarn as this! If you take him absolutely seriously, then you miss a wonderful part of him. Probably the part that I most admire, in secret.I thoroughly enjoyed watching this. The story was fun, the story realistic enough for me. The make-up was fun to look at. The weight loss, the diseases, the violence...it was all so comical, as it SHOULD BE! As a genre, horror is a laugh for me. I haven't been scared or frightened by a movie since THE SHINING. And of course that was directed by an outright MASTER of the cinema (Kubrick).So, sit back and think you are watching a light-horror movie...and I promise you it will be fun! "},{"Title":"not terrible but the book was  much much better.","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SPOILERS FOR MOVIE AND BOOK THINNER AHEADI am not a major King fan but have read some of his stuff and Thinner was always one of my favorites. I held off on seeing the movie for a long time as I'd heard it wasn't all that good and I think that a lot of King's work is not, for some reason, as good when their turned into movies. But after seeing it, I have mixed feelings. On the plus side, the basic story is the same. On the minus side, it was not anywhere near as good as the book. I thought the book was an 8 or 9 on a 10 scale but the movie was about average. Just my opinion.Here are some things I noticed. Number one is that, at times, the movie seemed almost campy. The fatsuit that Billy wore looked totally fake. And it also seemed that some of the dialog, which was so powerful in the book took on an almost campy tone in the movie. The movie version had nowhere near the intensity of the book and many of the characters did not have the multi dimension aspect they did in the book. It wasn't awful, I mean the movie sure did keep one's attention but it wasn't great either.In the book, one gets to know the turmoil that Billy Halleck experiences as a lot of the book focuses on his thinking. In the movie we don't get that. Honestly it seemed at times, like the character of Billy was channeling Jack Nicholson's character in The Shining. The building of tension was not nearly so compelling and though I'm aware that this movie could have been a lot worse(And honestly I thought it would be) I still wish it had been better.And then there's the ending. THAT was not done well at all. First of all in the book we do not see what the results of Heidi's eating the pie are., That was one thing that made the book ending so chilling. One really did not know WHAT happened and that was eerie and rather creepy. But in the movie it takes on a horror movie aspect, as the movie shows us what happened to Heidi which I didn't think it should have done. I was really surprised at that.And then there's Billy's motivations himself. In the 'book version Ginelli is killed by Gina and THAT'S what sends Billy over the edge. You clearly are made to understand by the writings of the book what happens and when. In the movie it is all about a possible affair between Heidi and the doctor which wasn't done that well and lacked believability. Another disappointment.And then there's the CAMPY aspect again. I mean the last line at the end was something like white doctor from town. It didn't sound serious, it sounded almost absurd. I was really disappointed by the end especially considering the power it had in the book.Ginelli was played very well by Montegna but also lacked the complexity he had in the book. In the book version, the scenes between Hallack and Ginelli were very interesting and in the movie they really did not have that compelling aspect. Not the performers fault but still a letdown.Now the things I liked. The photography was excellent. I love the fact that King's books take place in New England and they picked up the small town New England feel wonderfully. I also like that the gist of the original story was kept pretty much the same. And the same characters were still in the movie. The story itself was still compelling enough to hold my interest for the length of the movie. And it is thought provoking. So I'd still give it an average rating.And if someone watches this who isn't familiar with the book they might like this better because it IS better then a lot of other movies that are made from King's books. The last King movie I saw was the Secret Window which I absolutely hated. This was much MUCH better then that to be sure and I might even watch it again sometime but it was still disappointing overall. My vote is 5. "},{"Title":"Mr. King must be satisfied!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good adaptation of a Stephen King's novel, this movie is almost a exception, along with The Shining by Kubrick, in an effort to turn out the grim and uncanny world of Mr. King in images. The cast is perfect, especially Burke who gives a convincent and not far-fetched perform in the leading role of the lawyer cursed by a group of gipsies. Mantegna is excellent, too, as a mafia's boss who helps the lawyer to find a way out of his troubles. I give a 6 (six) to this.  "},{"Title":"Exactly what you'd expect","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Look, I was entertained for 90 minutes, long enough for a few brewskies and some popcorn, and that's all I asked of it. It's not a masterpiece. It's a simple story, simple characters... but why would you expect anything else? Just look at the DVD cover for f***'s sake. I'm baffled by the people who come on this movie's forum and are surprised by what a bad movie it was. Uh yeah, don't get me wrong, it's a RIDICULOUSLY stupid movie, but that's pretty much what I was looking for when I rented it. Had I gone into this movie without any former expectations, I would have given it 5 stars overall. The acting was way over the top, the directing not so great, and the writing wasn't spectacular either. However, the story was moderately clever, and it gets points for keeping a fairly tongue-in-cheek humor about it; at no point did I feel like it was trying to take itself seriously. I give it another star based entirely off the strength of it's makeup effects (yes, they're that good, considering it was made in a time before digital makeup). Finally, I give it 7 stars, simply because it met my expectations as a cheesy, over-the-top, horror romp, and I would've expected nothing less from Stephen King's Thinner. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The novel Thinner is one of my all time favorites by Stephen King. This movie is awful in every way. It stays faithful to the book in terms of the story, but it is completely trashed by a ghastly cast and horrible direction. The acting is beyond bad. Robert John Burke is a clown. The wife and daughter (no names) are plastic and completely fake. The only famous face is Joe Mantegna, but by the time he appeared in the movie I had lost interest. The makeup work is laughable. The fat suit and fat face are so poorly applied that I thought I could see the makeup lines on Burke's face. He never looks thin enough for you to believe that his life and health are in danger which is what created a lot of tension in the book. I think I can honestly say this is the worst Stephen King adaptation I have seen. There is not one redeeming quality about it. If you enjoyed the book, stay away. If you hated the book, stay away. Just stay away from it. There will be a much better B movie on a different channel that you can waste your lazy weekend on. "},{"Title":"B-grade cheesefest","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A fun concept, but poorly executed. Except for the fairly good makeup effects, there's really not much to it. There are obvious problems; for example, after taking what seems to be weeks and weeks to get from fat to normal size, the main character seems to go from normal size to deathly thin in days... and once he's deathly thin he stays pretty much equally deathly thin for what seems to be a long time.In any case, the movie has far worse problems than that--the cinematography is decidedly low-budget-TV-show quality and most of all the acting is pretty awful all around. Robert John Burke seems to always be trying for some kind of weird snarling Charlton Heston impersonation and is literally painful to watch... the only scary thing is that Lucinda Jenney and Kari Wuhrer are both even worse.The only reason why I'm giving this movie as high as I am is that once the movie enters its last 1/3 or so and Joe Mantegna's character takes over, the movie develops a fun, campy 'cheesefest slaughterhouse' feel, and the gangster's crazy schemes for tormenting the totally obnoxious gypsies are somewhat fun to watch. The ending, if predictable, is also nicely mean. Avoid unless you're a King-o-Phile or are REALLY psyched up at the idea of the voice of Fat Tony from the Simpsons terrorizing a gypsy camp. "},{"Title":"Tom Holland does a passable job","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tom Holland's last big screen film, in which he states that the studio gutted the dark humor and changed his warped ending after test screenings, but what's left is a playful enough horror entry. Robert John Burke chews the scenery, but brings some much needed energy to this film as an unscrupulous obese lawyer who starts wasting away from a gypsy curse. It's a makeup fx heavy film and some of the lighting in the film works against the makeup, especially the fat suit - which isn't very convincing in some scenes. The skinny effects are more effective and the makeup on Michael Constantine as the elder Lempke is top notch. The cinematographer normally worked in TV movies and the film is very bland and overlit and Greg Cannom's excellent makeup deserved a better DP. Thinner isn't a classic by any stretch of the imagination, but it's an entertaining time. "}{"Title":"Intriguing plot","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I liked the movie because it is about basic human things like revenge, greed and gluttony. On top of that you have nice special effects and OK actors. The script is reasonable, although I don't know how true it is to the book, since I haven't read it. There is a fine line between feeling sorry for the gypsies, who are shunned by society and taken advantage of, and sympathizing with the white man, who is cursed by them, and who has to deal with them living outside the norms of society. This is a clever story. I also like the cameo role by Stephen King as the shop keeper. Finally, you get an untraditional ending, were the main character dies, and we are left wondering if neither the gypsies or the white man comes out on top. Both suffer losses, but I think the morale of the story is that revenge is never a great idea, and that greed makes it easy to take advantage of people who are different. Although it can all come back and hit you in the face. "},{"Title":"Better than the rating","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" **SPOILERS AHEAD -- BEWARE -- SPOILERS ALERT** This film is much better than the 5.6 rating it has on this site. Rewatching it recently, the film really is a good solid adaptation of one of Stephen King's lesser-known works.Like the novel, the film is short and punchy with a good pace. No part of it drags and the growing (or reducing in Billy Halleck's case, played perfectly by Robert John Burke best known for his Robocop role) of the gypsy's curses on the men involved in 'stepping around' the death of Tadzu Lempke's (Michael Constantine in a fine role) daughter. Tadzu is the chief of the gypsy troupe and is 106-years old ... a much younger but very experienced Constantine does a great job with this role and the make-up work for him was perfect as it was for Burke's character who goes from a huge man, nearer 400 pounds than not, to a literal shadow of himself late in the film.Each of the three men (the judge and the police chief along with Halleck) involved in the 'stepping around' of Halleck running down Tadzu's daughter has their own unique curse and each is done up proper in make-up that doesn't for a moment look fake or half-assed. The heavyweight version of the make-up for Burke is excellent and just as effective as the sagging skin left after the curse has nearly run its course.Lucinda Jenney plays Billy Halleck's wife, Heidi, and does so, in the beginning, with that sparkling peppiness she carries off so well. She is an underrated actress imho and gives a first-rate performance here going from a peppy and supportive wife trying to help her grotesquely huge husband to a deceitful adulteress who, along with her lover's help, tries to have her husband committed when he hits the road to try and find the gypsies to have the curse removed.Even with the good pacing of the first half of the movie, it really picks up steam once 'the white man from town' finds the gypsies and has a rather unpleasant encounter with the group. This results in his calling in a 'marker' he has with a mafia-connected client -- Richie The Hammer Ginelli, played with great delight by Joe Mantegna. Mantegna just makes you smile and even laugh out loud as he sinks his teeth into the role. He is perhaps the best 'mob actor' around imho. When Halleck calls The Hammer asking for help and saying he needs a doctor, Richie replies he'll have someone there by morning ... not exactly a doctor but close. You just have to laugh with the thought and his delivery of the line.That just starts the ball rolling and it really picks up speed as the movie shoots straight on target to its climax. It isn't disappointing either and stays faithful to the King book and ending. And, if I may say so, this is one of King's best endings.This is a film that you could watch with your junior high kids these days I imagine. It is suspenseful but not overly gruesome -- not a slasher film but some brief moments of gore (a large ball bearing shot thru the palm of a hand and a very unique pie that will have you skipping desert for a week are the two most gruesome parts and they would really only rank a one or two on a scale of ten when considering the most gruesome films around today).Oh and watch for Stephen King himself as the pharmacist in the first part of the film. Also this was filmed in Camden, Maine, and it shows ... the region just has a special look to it that is special and the Irving gas station is a dead giveaway for the northeast USA and southeast Canada for starters ) Give it a watch and a fair chance and I think you'll be pleasantly surprised.He was a mook but he was MY mook. -- just one LOL line from The Hammer. )take care, cormac_zoso "},{"Title":"A Rehabilitative Review -- could be the BEST King adaptation","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In other reviews strewn over IMDb I have perhaps said some less than flattering things about KING (which I stand by) and even less flattering things about the many men in suits who have tried unsuccessfully time and again to bring his work to the screen. (Including King himself, which is a strange irony, but I digress). Then I remembered this film, and felt compelled to add this review to set the record straight. Back in King's early days, when he was not so much writing as channeling a prodigious amount of quality fiction, his own agent refused to take his output for fear of alienating his publishers (there was at that time a strange notion that if an author turned out TOO MUCH, it would overload the system and reduce demand. A concept that Miley Cyrus, for example, would have trouble with today). King would have none of it, legend tells us, and insisted that that the overage be published anyway, but perhaps under a different nom de plume. This work, if memory serves, was published under the name Richard Bachman, and is surprisingly pure, at least for King, most likely because it represents his early period, when he did not allow his zest for characterizations and nostalgia to take control of the actual narrative. So, to be sure, it not typical king, but a tightly controlled and highly focused story of the infamous gypsy curse. (Also the best title ever used in any Kind novel -- brilliant!). With this backstory understood, it may then be argued that director Tom Holland did not have to jump through the usual hoops to bring this story to life, because the story was pre-washed, like a pair of Levis, and ready for adaptation. That is my theory anyway. Bottom line, hands down the best King movie ever, direct, unfettered, uncluttered, and very un-nerving. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally funny","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see this movie at the cheap theatre with some friends, and we could not stop laughing.  Everything about this movie was terrible, from the acting to the script to the novel on which it was based, but it was done with such earnestness that it was fun to watch.The main character (wearing the fakest fake fat suit I've ever seen) is this obese lawyer who accidentally mows down an old gypsy woman while his wife has him 'distracted' in the car.  Of course the gypsies lay a curse on the fat man and he begins to lose weight uncontrollably no matter how much he eats.  He enlists the aid of a client of his, mobster Joe Mantegna (acting much like he has no idea of how bad this film is) who gleefully helps him enact revenge on the gypsies.This movie is hilarious in a Plan 9 sort of way.  Everything about it was so ineptly done, and with such conviction, that it is hard to hate the film. Watch it with friends, if one of you is holding a crap movie festival or something.Also, don't mess with gypsies.  "},{"Title":"Thin on scares, fat on laughs!","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't know what to expect from Thinner. Firstly when I saw it in the What's On TV magazine I thought of it as a serious horror film, that sounded quite eerie. You know, a man slowly getting thinner and thinner, and then of course it's Stephen King which is never a bad thing, and then it had 4 stars and so i thought that this film could have potential! But then I look at IMDb's rating and it's very below average so I was wary. Thankfully I was relieved when I turned it on and the first thing I saw was this clearly slim man in a ridiculous fat suit and I laughed.I pretty much laughed all the way through. There's no denying that Thinner (unintentially or not) is a very funny film. You only have to look at the man and laugh at those incredible hamster-type cheeks! The fat suit is hilariously bad, not a patch on the one that Eddie Murphey wears in The Nutty Professor. The man's facial expressions also had me rolling down the aisles (well, 'the sitting room') in every shot his eyes were wide and gleaming like he's just seen a massive slice of cake! His smile was also hideous. He looked like The Joker out of Batman. Even when he's eventually thin, he still wears those awful eyes and smile. The guy's a slug.The special make-up effects are very special indeed. A film like Thinner relies on the make-up effects. That's what made David Cronenberg's The Fly so amazing. Yet, the effects on Thinner are almost as bad as the fat effects. One man has terrible rubber boils over his face and his hand looks like a dinosaur stump. The 'thin' effects are also quite horrendous too. Thanks to Thinner's visuals you're always sure of a laugh. I can't tell if we're meant to be taking this film seriously or not.And then there's the awful screenplay that always seems to fight for the chance to see Mr.Lawyer literally stuffing his face with food. Though, it doesn't help that all the actors are terrible, with the gypsy looking like 'Grandad' out of Mrs Brown's Boys only with hair more luscious. Every character is a stereotype and the actor's seem to live up to that. No one asks questions like, Why have you bought home a pie? They just accept that and eat it.In all seriousness, Thinner could have been a horror classic rather than a horror cult classic. It could've been a chilling fable of greed and the price you pay for it. Instead we get a hugely entertaining film that offers no scares what so ever. Thinner is a hard film to rate because critically it's awful, but then again I had a ball watching this film and would happily watch it again. Thinner never bores, and the ending is actually pretty good. For guaranteed laughs, don't miss Thinner. "},{"Title":"Bad movie. Good book.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie was incredibly boring. Not exciting or scary at all. The book, however, gave me some chills. I happened to like the book. This movie just had poor acting, it was less scary, it was short, it was boring, and the part where he tried to convince the gypsy to take it off was really lame. I don't give this movie any credit at all. It was awful. The book was awesome. "},{"Title":"An Emaciated Calorie Potboiler . . .","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" No, I haven't read the Stephen King novel Thinner, but I choked down the film version. Horror movies are an acquired taste. Regular movies give an audience a hero to applaud as he strives to achieve a goal. In horror movies, audiences are invited to savor the demise of characters. In director Tom Holland's low-fat but tasteless revenge chiller Thinner, nobody wins and everybody deserves the bite that is put on them. Gluttonous New England attorney Billy Halleck (Robert John Burke of Robocop 3) has a weight problem. Although he rocks the bathroom scales at 300 pounds, he appears happily married to a trim, delectable wife, Heidi (Lucinda Jenney of G.I. Jane) with a yeasty teenage daughter.Fat doesn't mean stupid here. Halleck displays his sagacity in court when he wins an acquittal verdict for sleazy Mafia chieftain Richie Ginelli (Joe Mantegna of House of Games). Driving home from a victory feast, Billy hits an old gypsy woman crossing the street and kills her. A cover-up occurs, and Halleck's friends get him out of the soup. The disgruntled gypsy father Taduz Lemke (Michael Constantine of Skidoo) retaliates with a curse on the corpulent lawyer and the two town officials that exonerated him. Suddenly, Halleck finds himself shedding pounds no matter how much chow he chomps. When he begs the vengeful Gypsy to lift the curse, the old man refuses. Desperately, Halleck resorts to Richie. While Halleck struggles with the gypsies to remove the hex, he learns that his loyal wife has turned his attentions to the town's hotshot doctor.Thinner qualifies as not only laughably inept horror flick, but the filmmakers also rely on stereotypes of men and women. Tom Holland, who directed Child's Play (1988), and scenarist Michael McDowell, have served up such a slipshod script that you cannot relish watching Billy get his just dessert and shrivel up. Thinner boasts few shocks and fewer surprises. The filmmakers may have regurgitated King's novel, but they have filleted whatever sense of horror and humor it contained. Holland and McDowell introduce characters, such as the Mafioso, then inexplicably let them off the hook. One minor character shows up long enough to die and have a chicken's head stuffed in his mouth.The stereotypical behavior of the characters may offend audiences, too. Thinner depicts women as oversexed vixens and men as swine. When Halleck sneaks home from a clinic, he finds his doctor's sports car parked at his house. His suspicions ripen into jealousy and he cooks up a scheme to get the curse transferred to this wife. Even the premature ending lacks any satirical flavor. Oscar-winning special effects wizard Greg Cannom of Van Helsing and make-up artist Bob Laden do a fabulous job beefing up actor Robert John Burke to look obese. They succeed, too, in making him shrivel.Only die-hard Stephen King fans will be able to stomach this misogynistic gooledyspook. "},{"Title":"Maybe referring to the plot?","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So 'Thinner'... Yep.. This Steven Bachman (read Steven King) yarn about a man who gets his just desserts from a Gypsy Elder who he just killed, The story itself is there, no doubt about it, but I don't know why I didn't enjoy it more than I could have. I guess what really distracted me was the actors. I mean, who's the lead? Robert John Burke? Who's he? And fer crying out loud, can someone please stop hiring Joseph Mantegna for every Italian Mafioso role there ever is? And while we're at it, does every Mafioso have to have a pasta cooking Italian mother? The only good acting job done here is under 10 pounds of makeup, Michael Constantine as the Gypsy elder. He's pretty good. But the rest, I make you all, better actors... "},{"Title":"Pretty terrible","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've never been a big fan of Stephen King's horror works (he does fantasy much better IMO), and the movie adapation was even worse than the novel in this case. The plot could have easily filled a half-hour Twilight Zone episode A fat, obnoxious lawyer runs over a gypsy woman and gets off, but is then given a 'thinning' curse by the woman's father. As he wastes away, he enlists the help of a mobster friend to reply with his own curse (in the form of a loaded AK-47) on the gypsy camp. In the end, he gets rid of the curse, loses his family and becomes evil. The plot is potentially interesting, but the acting is pretty poor and the main character is simply not likeable enough for people to root for him or care what happens to him. The only performance I enjoyed was that of Joe Mantegna - I instantly recognized his voice as Fat Tony from The Simpsons, and he was the best character in the whole film. Kari Wuhrer also makes an appearance as the old gypsy's grand-daughter (and provides a nice skirt-lifting shot) but the rest of her role is mainly spitting and cursing a lot. The ending attempts to provide a 'twist', but I found it contrived and unsatisfying. Overall, this was a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Only Stephen King can take an antiquated plot device like a gypsy curse and actually make it frightening.","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thinner (1996) was a fun enough outing; I'd give it an 8 out of 10. You can easily tell that this story originated with Stephen King. Only he can take an antiquated plot device like a gypsy curse and actually make it frightening.I do get the sense that screenwriters Michael McDowell and Tom Holland stuck closely to the original novel (which I have not read). It seems like a character-focused story; I'll bet the original prose really explored the incongruous friendship between Robert John Burke's mild-mannered attorney and Joe Mantegna's apparently psychotic mobster. I'll bet that King's unique style would have perfectly rendered certain plot points in the movie, such as one key conversation being overheard early on.I feel like an idiot ... For the life of me, I thought that actress Kari Wuhrer was Marissa Tomei. Her resemblance in this movie is striking. I can't be the only one who made that mistake, can I? Anyway, I really panned Wuhrer's performance in 2005's disappointing Hellraiser Deader. But she is damn terrific here in her role as the beautiful banshee adversary -- she damn near steals the movie. Also outstanding is Michael Constantine as her haggard, curse- casting gypsy father. "}{"Title":"Nothing a salad won't fix.....","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An obese Lawyer finds himself growing Thinner when an old gypsy man places a curse on him.Now the lawyer must call upon his friends in organised crime to help him persuade the gypsy to lift the curse.Time is running out for the desperate lawyer as he draws closer to his own death, and grows ever thinner......There was a time in the early nineties when every other film released was based on source material by King, thanks to the roaring success of Misery.Some where okay, at least two are regarded as modern masterpieces, and the others were made for a quick buck to cash in on the success of the name.It didn't help that the man himself appeared in the majority of them, because we can't even say that he disapproved of the quality of the films.This is an average entry, that has no right in being a feature length film, it would have worked much better as an episode of The Twilight Zone, because the film really fills itself out with pointless plot arcs, and narrative.There's a ten minute dream sequence for heaven's sake!!.Burke is fine, but he looks like fat b******* richer brother from Austin Powers, and Joe Magntena is just doing a live action Fat Tony.The last scene is pretty unsettling, but when a film has dawdled through it's narrative, you are just glad it's all over, rather than being shocked.Not bad by any means, just another cash generator for a greedy studio. "},{"Title":"Thick Storytelling.","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thinner (1996) Dir Tom Holland / Cast Robert John Burke, Joe Mantegna, Kari Wuhrer, Michael Constantine, Lucinda Jenney Gruesome horror film about evaporation. It stars Robert John Burke as a lawyer with an eating disorder. On his way home one evening he accidentally hits an elderly woman with his car and she dies. Seeing that Burke is a respected lawyer he is rendered innocent by the judge and arresting officer but outside the courthouse he is touched by an old gypsy with a curse that will evaporate him regardless how much he eats. To add to problems his wife is having an affair. The judge and arresting officer are cursed also but he is advised to seek revenge. Interesting concept is quite detailed but wayward. Directed by Tom Holland who previously made one of the best vampire films of the 1980's in Fright Night. He also made the doll possessed Child's Play. Burke plays his role with subtle humour despite plans that don't quite fan out. Joe Mantegna is interesting as a client who owes Burke favors. He is a criminal who answers Burke's problem by disrupting the gypsies. Kari Wuhrer plays a gypsy girl given a unique interrogation. Michael Constantine steals scenes as the old gypsy who may have met his match. Lucinda Jenney plays Burke's cheating wife who may meet karma. Clever horror about consequences that evaporate our senses. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Now that's a diet that works...","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have never read the Stephen King story upon which this movie is based, so how true the movie is to the book I can only speculate about. I have, however, seen this movie three times by now, not because it is my favorite movie or anything, just because I have had the chance.The story is about a guy who kills a gypsy woman in a car accident, an accident he walks free from because of his legal connections. As he walks out from the courtroom and old gypsy comes up and puts a curse on him. Being seriously overweight and on a diet, the weight starts to quickly come off, but at an alarming rate, and soon becomes a physical danger to his very life.I will say that the story is interesting enough, although it isn't particularly scary, so not really a typical movie version of a Stephen King story from the mid 1990's.The effects were actually quite good and still hold up by today's standards. The whole weight-loss process was quite good, as were the prosthetics of the corpses. Just bear in mind that the movie is not heavy-laden with special effects though.As for the cast and the acting, then people were doing good jobs with their given roles and characters.All in all, then Thinner is an adequate movie, although not the best of concepts to have sprung from the creative mind of Stephen King. "},{"Title":"Undeniably Entertaining to watch","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie may not deserve an Academy Award by today's standards, but that's no way to measure a film. I had fun watching it the entire time, and the whole adaptation exudes Stephen King in spirit.Although the story is undoubtedly cheesy at points and the acting is as expected from a 1996 Stephen King adaptation, the whole production comes together into a charming piece of film that can (at the right moments) leave you in shock, and by the end you can't help but have a big sadistic grin on your face. I cannot recommend this more for an interesting night in. It's star rating doesn't do it justice. Simply entertaining. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have yet to read the book.I didn't I had seen this movie before but as I got hear the end of the movie.I did remember that last few scenes fro years back , which I forgot about.So that already tells you it a forgettable movie I did like some of the make up effects to make him look k ThinnerThe fat make up was to much and found it looked far to fake , it actually looked really bad The acting in this was really good.I didn't really liked how the movie ended at all, I don't know if story Ended I the same way.I found that Really silly way to end it "},{"Title":"Not a whole lot worse King adaptations out there","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Managing to get off on a murder charge, a lawyer suddenly learns his weight-loss is the result of a curse placed on him by the gypsy he helped to screw over and tries to find a way of ending it before it consumes his world.This here really wasn't all that great and had a lot wrong with it. The main thing against this is in fact the central premise, as this one takes up the idea that what's going on here is scary when it really isn't as the concept of a curse causing an obsess person to drop off weight no matter what he does. This is simply not a scary proposition at all, and to make this be the root cause of fear in a ninety-minute movie is simply ridiculous by forcing this one to become completely dependent on such lame scenes as the arguing with the family over first losing weight and then how much he's lost as quickly as he is, the different tests and methods being done to try and figure out what's going on and the behavioral change in going from loving his new look to from all the compliments to being terrified of how much he's going to shrink next, and none of this makes the film any better at what's going on here as this one manages to become deadly boring here with this one concentrating on these issues for such a large majority of time here that it's not so interesting as the main point of the story here. Even the supposed adultery subplot here is just excruciatingly dull with absolutely nothing of any interest happening here and just making this one feel like forever before it really gets to anything decent or interesting and this manages to fulfill the fact that doing this makes for an enjoyable time here. The far more interesting and creative scenes apply to his cronies which actually feature the opportunity for scares and other chilling moments as they're damaging to the body which would've been a lot more fun rather than watching him run around the countryside chasing after the group. These here really bring this one down while it does have a few decent moments along the way. The biggest factor going here is the rather enjoyable final half, which not only gets the really enjoyable but also has some solid action within the mafia assaults on the gypsy camp set-off by the early ambushes before the decent shootout to be found here that certainly sets this going rather well. The only other part that comes off nicely is the whole concept of the curse and what it does, as the method for this one coming into fruition is nice enough and all the different rules and rituals for this are rather nicely explored. Otherwise, there's not a whole lot that works.Rated R Adult Language and Violence. "},{"Title":"Thinner remains one of my favourite Stephen King adaptations.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A lawyer is cursed by a gypsy to lose weight...and lose weight...and lose weight... A fat Lawyer finds himself growing Thinner when an old gypsy man places a hex on him. Now the lawyer must call upon his friends in organized crime to help him persuade the gypsy to lift the curse. Time is running out for the desperate lawyer as he draws closer to his own death, and grows ever thinner. This creepy, unsettling thriller is one of the more under-rated movies that have been adapted from Stephen King's stories. Robert John Burke is very good as the afflicted man, but Joe Mantegna almost steals the film as a gangster. Thinner remains one of my favourite Stephen King adaptations. I have never seen anything quite like it before. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable horror yarn","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The films made, based on Stephen King's books, have always been a hit and miss affair. In fact, more have tended to miss than hit. However, 'Thinner' is a real treat. It's nothing totally new - at least, not by today's standards - but, in some ways, it was a little ahead of its time.Today (and ever since the US remake of 'The Ring') there have been a type of horror movie where something bad/supernatural happens to the protagonist, they don't know what's going on, they research the phenomenon (normally involving the help of a convenient expert), before finally confronting the evilness in the final act. Thinner is basically one of these, only made about 5-10 years before this sort of film became the norm.It's about a fat man who gets cursed to lose weight. Then lose some more weight. And some more. Basically, if he doesn't stop the curse he'll end up looking like Posh Spice without any make-up on (and no one wants that!).The film is generally nothing new, but it's major plus points are the special effects used for making out unwitting hero look thinner and thinner. Plus it's not for the faint-hearted. This is definitely an adult's horror film as it gets pretty dark in places.If you think you can handle a darkly disturbing King film at its best, give this one a go. I haven't read the book, so I can't say how faithful it is to that (only that the ending is apparently different if you believe all the comments on Internet message boards). "},{"Title":"Not Bad Horror Adaptation!","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert John Burke, Joe Mantegna, Lucinda Jenney, Bethany Lenz, Kari Wuhrer and Michael Constantine star in this 1996 horror film adaptation of Stephen King's novel. Burke (Robocop 3) plays obese lawyer, Billy Halleck who has a wife, Heidi (Jenney) and daughter, Linda (Lenz). Soon, he gets into a car accident with his wife where they hit an old gypsy woman. Constantine (My Big Fat Greek Wedding) plays Tadzu Lempke, the woman's father and gypsy king who places a horrific, body curse on Billy as justice for her death. Billy's weight begins to reduce rapidly and he becomes ill. He desperately tries to get the curse taken off even if he has to take extreme measures. Mantegna (Criminal Minds) plays mafia boss, Richie The Hammer Ginelli, Billy's client & friend who helps him, Wuhrer (Anaconda) plays Tadzu's great granddaughter, Gina and King appears as usual as a pharmacist. This isn't bad, Burke & Mantegna are great in it as well as Greg Cannom's make-up effects. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Why won't someone stick to what King wrote?","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This review contains spoilers.While this movie seems to cling more to the King novel than other adaptations of his works, the screen writers and producers of this movie chose to highlight the physical horror of a man shriveling away rather than the mental horror of the characters' panic as the curses slowly unfold on them. King's story is one of his few to contain a moral One must accept one's own responsibility for what has happened instead of blaming others. King's story actually shows how almost every character was not intending to be bad, but had some culpability in the initial accident and how it is handled - yet those most guilty sought to place blame on everyone else. Ultimately this destroys everyone.The movie instead makes everyone rather despicable and inserts an unexplained paranoia into the main character that makes him want to kill in addition to trying to remove his curse. The ending therefore misses his realization of what his actions have cost him, and instead makes him merely a deranged murderer. The ridiculous final horror of him setting up to murder the man whom his paranoia has caused him to believe is having an affair with his wife by welcoming the man in to have a piece of cursed pie has to be one of the cheesiest, most abrupt, and poorly executed final scenes ever to have been in what was major motion picture.It really is sad that such a great story got trashed by trying to turn it into a gore fest. "}{"Title":"the diet that wont quit","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you wish to compare this film to the book then it wont be as good. If you want to compare this film to other King films then it's pretty standard fare. If you don't wish to compare at all and instead just watch the film (which I urge you to do) then you will be pleasantly surprised. What you will discover is an intense film with great special FX. Mantagna is excellent in a typical Mafia type role and turns out to be the most likable character. The most pleasing aspect of the film is the storyline. It's a simple idea that King has made good. So there we have it. It's good but could be better, but isn't that the same for every one of Kings films? "},{"Title":"All Right","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ill admits this movie is not the best but it is all right. It's a terrific Idea. What's scarier then something you can't stop? Something that takes a while to realizes and even once you do realize it you don't want to believe it. The novel is much better, like always. That's because the movie doesn't rely enough on the clues to add to the scariness. Clues like the other victims of the gypsies, or casual weight loss. This movie has those things but they jump to them to fast, and don't focus enough on them. It seems the director knew the audience all ready new the plot so he didn't get much into how scary such a thing would be. instead he relies too much on his average make up work. Average because like the plot it is too rushed. The thing that makes this situation so scary is that it slowly happens and you would slowly realize it. Example It would have been a lot creepier if he had lost a pound a day instead of 7-10 a day. I lost three pounds since breakfast? the man character asks. That's puzzling and ridiculous not scary. Still this movie is all right a 6 out of 10. I think it is because of the main characters performance. He realistically portrayals what it would be like to lose that much weight that fast and that is not an easy thing to do. Having to look sick and scared and angry and confused and determined and sorry all at the same time. He does a very good job. Joe Mantega is OK a role that doesn't look that hard but he does a good job with it. Overall an all right movie worthy to be up there with the other king movie like Christine and The Stand but not Misery or IT.  "},{"Title":"Average Stephen King's novel","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  screened in Hong Kong in Jan 1997 and released by ERA Films (HK)limited.Categorized as IIB movie. Selling points include Stephen King's previous novels Shining, Misery.  "},{"Title":"Consummate Cringe-Fest","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Horror Movie can't decide what it wants to be. Gore Flick, Psychological Thriller, Black Comedy, etc. It is all over the place and never really settles in for some scares or disturbing Drama.The Acting is awful, the Script is just slightly above that, the Make-up Effects are cheesy, and the tension is virtually non-existent. It is an ugly Movie and that seems to be its intent, but it can't even pull that off because it has a candy coating like TV-Movie Production. It is all kinda slickly sick but doesn't even manage to be repulsive, just cringe-worthy. This one is for the Stephen King Fans that need to complete their checklist and only the most curious Horror Movie Cultist.It is disappointing to the extreme and the ending is very unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not great.","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are a handful of King movie adaptations that are better than his books, and while this is not one of them, it stands on its own as entertaining with no cringe-worthy scenes and plot holes you can forgive. Having read the book over 20 years ago, and just now seeing the movie free on Cinemax, I have difficulty comparing the two, but I did enjoy the ending to this movie. There's no gore, but a sense of foreboding throughout. A good time killer matinée. I went in expecting something to at least hold my attention, and I was not disappointed. The only thing that's is truly retina-killing is the fakey fat suit. Give it a rest already. "},{"Title":"Such a silly movie that I can't help enjoying.","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thinner is just one of those movies that I always enjoy watching when its on. It's basically a great way to spend 90 minutes.I think the foremost reason why this is such a watchable movie is thanks to its wonderful concept. Its highly original and you just can't go really wrong with it. The story nevertheless is quite silly in parts, which is I think also mainly because there are some difficulties with the book translation to the screen. What works in a book just doesn't always work for a movie. Another problem with movies based on books is that a book has a beginning and an end, with in between a couple of hundred pages to lay out the story and characters and everything that happens in between. You then next have to try to put this all in an under 2 hour movie, without loosing the core and essence of the story. This most of the time has as a result that some things get rushed in the movie to get from point A to B.The actual ending is just great but there are also still some problems with it. Problem with the ending is that it's totally unclear why the main character is suddenly freaking out so bad and why he suddenly turns into psychotic murderer. Apparently a real returning theme in Stephen King novels; the main character going psycho toward the ending. He blames his wife for everything that has happened but this is totally unbelievable and unlikely this would ever happen. She at least most certainly did not deserved to die because of it. They try to 'justify' his killing of her even more by implying that she cheats on her husband with doctor Mikey. But again; now way that that justifies the thing happening to her in the end.No way the story would had still worked out as good if the make-up effects weren't as good. Robert John Burke goes from extremely fat at the start to extremely thin toward the ending, all with the help of make-up.The movie looks like a made for TV movie, which is obviously due to its restrained budget. So don't expect anything big or surprising camera movements and innovating directing or editing.The movie also doesn't have a too great cast but each actor serves its purpose and fits its role. Actually quite silly and nothing too great but it's a perfectly watchable and enjoyable little movie.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Weight Loss Plan That Does Not Know When to Stop.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A strangely tense horror flick that struggles with outrageous situations and odd plot twists. Small-town attorney Robert John Burke runs over an old gypsy woman with his car and kills her one dark night. Needless to say, he was distracted by his seductive wife as the accident occurred. A lightning quick trial gets Burke off the hook as the judge and the police chief are all close friends with him. The woman's father (Michael Constantine of My Big Fat Greek Wedding fame) puts a curse on the very over-weight Burke to disappear off the face of the Earth forever (he also puts another type of curse on the judge and the police chief). Burke then starts to lose weight uncontrollably and at first it appears to be a blessing, but soon he comes to the realization that the curse must be taken off or he will be no more. Attempting to get the spell broken, Burke enlists the help of Mafia kingpin Joe Mantegna and continues to have disturbing run-ins with exotic gypsy Kari Wuhrer. Stephen King's novel is all over-the-map to start with and is even more so in this production. Typical cliches and an oddball ending detract from the few good things accomplished early on. 2 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"As a stand-alone film, not very entertaining","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Unlike other reviewers, I haven't read the book, so I don't have that comparison. My opinion is based solely on the film, just FYI.The premise focuses on revenge. One problem with the film is that there isn't anyone genuinely likeable except for the teen daughter who isn't given much to do. Another issue is that the story -- especially the ending is disturbing -- and not in a thought-provoking way, either. *SPOILER* What ultimately happens is that a man who was unquestionably guilty of manslaughter proceeds to commit murder (his wife) and manslaughter again (his daughter -- and he's not that upset about it) and murder yet again (his doctor). The bottom line? A cast of not likeable characters in a story without redemption (in all meanings of that word). "},{"Title":"Ok for Stephen King","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For Stephen King it was a good movie. The special effects were really cool. The plot was good. It's about a guy who by accident runs over a gypsy women and her husband put a curse on him for it. A curse that makes him lose weight until he dies. Anyway it was pretty creepy. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a Stephen King movie, and likes a good horror movie. "},{"Title":"Crypt Keeper","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This move reminded my of Tales from the Crypt Keeper. It has the same sort of idea of people get what they deserve. I think that's always the them in a Crypt story. The same goes for the bad acting. Very bad acting. I enjoyed the movie knowing that most people didn't like it and I wasn't expecting much. Whenever I watch a stephen King movie I don't expect much because all his movies are awful compared to the genius of his novels. I have read The Shining and Carrie and they were great books. I love how Carrie played out like it was a true story and the whole book is a bunch of reports and theories and such. It was so good. But I noticed that both of the novels were nothing like the movies. The endings were very different then the movie versions. I assume from those two novels that all of his novels are changed greatly and the endings are always cheesy. I ending of Thinner is the worst. So Cheesy. I want to read the book to find out the real ending. I suggest everyone who intends to read stephen King's novels to watch his movies before hand so that you may compare. And that way you will be greatly satisfied in the book. I intend on doing so with all his novels that were made into movies. I'm sure if they were made into movies they were real good books... and the screenplay went terribly wrong. "}{"Title":"the book was fabulous...","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...but this adaptation is not.  the premise of the story is that a lawyer has an auto accident, resulting in the death of an old gypsy woman.  after the good old boy law system gets him off scott-free, the gypsy woman's son puts a curse on the good old boys, the lawyer's curse being that he will grow 'thinner.'  he's a hefty boy to begin with, so he has a long way to go.unless a technique was used like tom hanks did for 'castaway' (shutting down production for a year so he could lose weight), there is no other way to show the weight loss that wouldn't look cheesy.  well, have some cheese.  this guy has on a fat suit that is SO obvious, i thought for a second that i was watching jiminy glick!  even when all of the fat suit is gone, he still looks like a plastic man.like i said before, the book was fabulous.  this is one of those stories that should never have been adapted for the screen.  my imagination came up with much better images when i was reading this book than they portrayed on the screen. "},{"Title":"A faithful adaptation of the novel, but I guess some stuff just doesn't translate to film very well.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Stephen King has obviously had more success in having his books made into movies than any other author. Sure, a lot of his movies are pretty much bottom of the barrel drivel, such as many of his earlier horror films (such as Creepshow and Night Shift and It, to some extent), but there is a distinct brand of horror films that come from his books that are not only better than average, but that stand as classic horror films and probably always will (such as The Shining and Carrie). It should also be noted that Stephen King has not only come out with horror stories, but that he has come out with some of the best dramas out there. Note, for example, that The Shawshank Redemption is at #2 on the IMDb's Top 250, and has been for as long as I can remember, and he has also provided the stories for such great dramas as Stand By Me, Hearts In Atlantis, Dolores Claiborne, The Green Mile, and Strawberry Spring (MAN I can't wait until that movie comes out&#133;). Clearly, Stephen King has earned enough respect to have filmmakers be faithful to his material when adapting one of his stories into a film, but while that is the case with Thinner, I just don't think the material translates very well.It's not exactly one of King's best books ever, but Thinner is an entertaining and fast paced novel. It's one of those ones where something new is always happening and it's really hard to put down, which is why it seemed so strange to me that while I was watching the movie I seemed to be just waiting for it to end. I had already read the book, so I wasn't exactly hanging on the edge of my seat to see what happened next, but there's something thin (no pun intended) about the delivery of the movie that took away from the excitement of the story as a whole. This is not a typical horror film, in that it doesn't really rely on shocks to get you to jump out of your seat, it relies more on just horrifying stuff, like Billy Halleck's torturous weight loss and the old gypsy man's nose and that KISS at the end of the movie my GOD. Unfortunately, the film version of Thinner just doesn't capture the fascinating quality of the book. My theory is that this is the kind of thing that is much better imagined than seen. You just can't show something like this and have it be convincing enough to be a really great film. Granted, the special effects are impressive, to say the least, but there are many instances in the film where it's just all too obvious that they are just that &#150; special effects.Robert John Burke's performance was less than spectacular at some points, even once or twice bordering on becoming clownish (`I'm being&#133;erased!'), but I haven't seen many of his performances before (except for his performance in the ridiculous RoboCop 3), so I don't even have much to compare it to. Joe Mantegna is completely out of place in this film and pretty much the rest of the cast is on auto-pilot. The film is worth watching just to see Kari Wuhrer lift her skirt up in one of the most breathless but unrevealing scenes I've ever seen (rivaling even the tremendous sensuality despite the nearly total lack of nudity in The Hairdresser's Husband), and Stephen King fans are sure to enjoy it, but this is not a King film for a wide audience. "},{"Title":"Disappointing and unsuitable adaptation.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Disappointing and unsuitable adaptation. The acting was overdone; especially that of he lead character. The F/X quality was good, but Robert John Burke's facial expressions were too comical for this genre. I was really looking forward to seeing the Richard Ginelli character brought to life, but once again, as with the gypsies, the acting was exaggerated. The subtle-to-intense horror present through the novel was sorely lacking in this representation. The best performance seemed to be that of Josh Holland, but his sleepy-eyed sensuality was totally out of place in this film. Overall, a very cringeworthy, predictable film. "},{"Title":"Very Poor Adaptation","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I hardly know where to begin. Not at all true to the story, really, except in the most superficial ways.The screenplay writers took a fairly scary and almost believable yarn and ruined it. Billy Halleck was reduced to an unsympathetic, fat and selfish clown, a waddling caricature of the tortured protagonist in the book. The Gypsies play out the facile racist stereotypes of nastiness and evil incarnate instead of mysterious bohemians with a paranormal approach to vengeance.The most egregious change, however, was the re-worked ending. The story's real conclusion was never going to win a popularity contest; had the writers remained true to the original plot, the authentic ending would have seemed as precisely chilling as it was intended to be, instead of comedic twist on a Tales From the Crypt episode.King was probably more ashamed of this than Kubrick's version of The Shining. If you saw this mincemeat of a film first, I hope you will give the book a chance someday. "},{"Title":"oh god what have they done?!","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was really looking forward to seeing this film, but after watching it I was really disappointed. The best bit was when Stephen King was in it. Rober John Berk cannot act to save his life and neither can any of the others. A few of the performances even made me laugh out loud! The film was was not as I imagined it, after reading the book which was awesome, I imagined it darker and a lot scarier. If i was Stephen, I would be really mad!I don't know why they changed the ending, I thought the ending of the book was very good. If you just found out the pie killed your daughter, you wouldn't feed it to anyone else would you?!Book was so much better! "},{"Title":"Pretty skimpy...","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To call a movie like Thinner bad is like calling the earth round or Pauly Shore un-talented.  No news, but how they got that way is what people want to know.As far as this movie....  The book was good, even if it was a little derivative of other stories from the be careful what you wish for genre.  Burke plays an overweight lawyer who kills the daughter of a gypsy and is cursed by her father (Constantine from TV's Room 222) to several pounds a day.  Like I said, it starts out good, but why involve the mobster (Mantegna)?  Why fire automatic weapons so much?  Why turn it into something so heavily dependent on FX?  I thought it would have been much more effective if it focused more on the subtle ramifications of weight loss crazes, diseases, death, gypsy lore and such.  But no, it's not to be.  Remember, this is Stephen King we're talking about.And the ending... almost the same as the book, but a little too talky.  In fact the whole movie talks too much, feeling it has to explain every plot turn to us.  Not that I expected The Dead Zone, but I could have done without another Pet Sematary, thanks anyway.One star for at least trying to do a halfway decent makeup job.  However, the rest of the movie is left to be... say it with me... Thinner. "},{"Title":"Every time Michael Constantine says White Man from Town, take a drink","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Have you ever played the Thinner drinking game?  The movie isn't good for anything else, although the stunning Kari Wuhrer does flash us her thong panties.  Basically, every time Michael My Big Fat Greek Stereotype Constantine says White Man from Town, indulge your inner waterbaby and imbibe with your alcoholic beverage of choice.  Between this movie and Baby's Day Out, Joe Mantenga pretty much kissed his career as a serious actor goodbye.  Although his performance here as Richie The Hammer, is fairly amusing, it's Robert John Burke who sinks the ship, he clearly has no idea what kind of film he is in, although he is a trooper when it comes to makeup effects. "},{"Title":"Best. Film. Ever","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Simply stunning, I needed every one of the one hundred tacos I bought as sustenance specifically for this feast of horror.It is hard to pick a favourite scene from so many, but for me it has to be the defining moment of the film (and perhaps all gypsy horror films), when the fat man is confronted by his magical gypsy nemesis. Thinner.The aftermath of this simple event will have you reeling from start to terrifying finish. I simply couldn't look for large portions of the film as I cowered behind my fridge.I recommend the blu-ray for the ultimate in high definition thinning. "},{"Title":"Dares you to like the ugly lead","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy Halleck (Robert John Burke) is a fat arrogant defense lawyer. His wife Heidi (Lucinda Jenney) and daughter Linda (Bethany Joy Lenz) are trying to get him to lose weight. He wins a case for his mob boss client Richie Ginelli (Joe Mantegna). The police runs off a band of gypsies that had descended on the town. After a night out, Billy runs over an old gypsy woman. In the coroner's inquest, Billy gets off as various people cover for him. The gypsy elder Lempke places curses on the three men involved. Judge Cary Rossington (John Horton) is cursed with Lizard and his skin slowly turns to scale. Police Chief Duncan Hopely (Daniel von Bargen) is disfigured and commits suicide. Billy suspects Dr. Mike Houston (Sam Freed) of cheating with his wife but he's just trying to force him back to the clinic. He tracks down Lempke but his great-granddaughter Gina (Kari Wuhrer) shoots her slingshot through Billy's hand.This movie is a dare to root for this arrogant douche. It's much more likely that the audience is rooting for an ugly painful death. That could have been an interesting twist on the usual narrative. Instead, the movie keeps pushing this ugly character on the audience. The thinner he gets, the meaner he is. He's an ugly character that shrivels up into an even uglier character. A full length movie is probably too much time to spend with this guy. Nobody can truly take it for that long. "},{"Title":"Thinner no Winner","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK, I have to say this first the acting was deplorable. From the lead actors on down it was just absurdly bad. Half the actors seemed like they were on some type of uppers and the other half were just set pieces. The lead actor, Robert John Burke, got better as he got thinner. As funny as that may sound, it's true.As for the story, it was OK. The concept was mildly interesting but the execution was poor. Billy Halleck (Robert Burke) hit and killed a gypsy woman and incurred a gypsy curse. The curse, as the title of the movie clearly states, made him thinner. The movie plodded along at 'B' level status until close to the end. Without giving anything away, I'll say that the movie became far more interesting when Billy Halleck got deathly thin.Like I said before, the story is OK but could have been done better. The first step to make the movie better is to fire the acting coach. That or shut down the acting school they all went to. "}{"Title":"OK, but a bit pedestrian","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Obese Billy Halleck, on the receiving end of a bit of how's-your-father while driving, runs down a gypsy woman, and finds himself on the receiving end of a curse whereby the weight falls off him for no reason he has to try to find a way to get the curse taken away before the weight loss kills him.The first of Stephen King's books to be published under the pseudonym Richard Bachman, Thinner is a pacey suspense story with mild horror/supernatural elements and no frills. The film adaptation is faithful to the book and workmanlike enough, but it is fair to say that, like the book, it does little beyond telling an enjoyable but unexceptional story with efficiency.The fat costumes and prosthetics are well done but, inevitably, they aren't wholly convincing. "},{"Title":"Thin Entertainment.","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Based on the novel by Richard Bachman(Stephen King) and directed by Tom Holland, film involves an overweight lawyer(played by Robert John Burke) who accidentally runs over and kills an old gypsy woman, prompting her family(led by Michael Constantine)to curse him by causing him to lose weight. At first a welcome thing, this really does become a curse when the weight loss doesn't stop, no matter how many calories he eats, which of course is highly dangerous, prompting the lawyer to beg for the curse to be removed, and when that doesn't work, takes other, more lethal measures...Bad film is devoid of suspense, interest, or point, focusing on unpleasant characters you cannot empathize with in an increasingly empty film, with a grim ending. Forget it. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not interesting.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There was really nothing wrong with this film, but it had a very made-for-TV feel to it. Not terribly exciting, not insightful enough to really get in the characters' heads. The makeup effects were good, I confess, and the acting was decent, though no one stood out. "},{"Title":"Cut yourself a slice of Gypsy pie.....","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When i saw the cover of the video jacket, i knew i was in for a cheesy but probably enjoyable flick. It is a watchable film, and follows the plot of the novel pretty well all told. The actors were adequate, but not noteworthy. Some people have commented on the fact that William Halleck does not seem like a likeable character, and this is true of the film, but the novel delves more into his relationship with his daughter, and gives us a far more rounded character who isn't just motivated by hatred and revenge; we see that this is a man who loves his daughter deeply, and is terrified by what is happening to him. All in all, forgetable but worth watching just to see King in a cameo as the pharmacist.   "},{"Title":"Only one good moment during this film.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It was a slow night a few years back when I screened Thinner, originally a Stephen King novella. I'm not into horror, but the storyline seemed intriguing. A group of lawyers are having a feud with gypsies (?) over some dispute. One night, one of the lawyers (who is grossly overweight) is getting oral from his wife while he's driving and he hits the gypsy leader's wife, killing her. He gets off scot-free by his lawyer cronies. The leader angrily come up to him after his acquittal, touches his face, and says Thinner. The lawyer doesn't know what that means.The overweight lawyer, who has been trying to shed weight but to no avail, suddenly sees that he's losing weight, and rapidly. He's losing three to five pounds a day, and he can't put any weight on, no matter how much he eats. So the movie deals with him trying to find a way to break the curse, going from bribing the gypsies to relying on a bounty hunter.The shock value in this film is weak, the storyline isn't frightening enough to rely on corpses or extreme violence. Pretty much every character in this film is unlikeable, and even though the movie is about 90 minutes, it's slow.The only redeeming segment is provided by the gorgeous Kari Wuhrer, who plays the leader's granddaughter. When the lawyers come out of their office for lunch, they notice the gypsies, particularly Wuhrer. Wuhrer does a little sexual teasing for them, hiking up her long skirt to reveal a very nice set of thong panties. After that, she acts as if she's going to blow them a kiss, but instead she spits at them and gives them a nasty look. All men will get a rise from the first half of that scene. Sadly, Wuhrer's lines are nothing more than her screaming, ranting, and being totally incoherent, which is par on the course for her anyway. Other than that, this film is mediocre. "},{"Title":"Richie the HAMMER","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Never before impressed me a movie character as much as Richie did. I simply like this guy and his style. I guess people who are into magic should get that they cant stop people like Richie the hammer. I guess this movie is a good lesson for those teenage wannabe witches! "},{"Title":"A TYPICAL STEPHEN KING MOVIE","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not as good as the book but a pretty good movie, it`s not the best King movie but it`s good enough. It`s not the easiest job to adapt a King movie!!! If you like Stephen King or just the movies like It, Langoliers and Cujo you will probably like this to. But if you love King movies this is a must for you!!! I know that it is for me... "},{"Title":"The Good, The Bad, The Ugly, The Skinny","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a great horror movie, but if you are expecting the something of the slasher gendre you will be disappointed as were many who have commented here.  This is not an in your face movie even though it appears to be. The horror that we see has nothing to do with external circumstances but rather the horror that those circumstances bring out of the deep dark recesses of our psyches!.  The lead character begins as a fat, dopey buffoon, and as the movie progresses turns into a horrific monster whose appearance reflects not so much the drastic weight loss that he experiences but rather the dark spectre of guilt that has corrupted his very soul. This is a masterpiece that MOST people will dismiss without bothering to take a deeper look at.Not to be missed is Michael Constantine's performance of the elder Lemke, the centegenarian patriarch of the gypsy clan.  His slightly over-the-top, yet believable performance literally steals the show.The only complaint I had was the ending.  Considering the many other King works I have read and subsequently watched at the theatre it seems that he has trouble ending a story.  Otherwise, I recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of the Better King Adaptations","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thinner (1996) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Terrific adaptation of the Stephen King story about an obese lawyer (Robert John Burke) who accidentally runs over a gypsy and killing her. When he gets away with the crime her family puts a curse on him to make him thin. It sounds great at first but soon the lawyer starts to fade away to nothing. Tom Holland does a really good job at bringing this story to the big screen and I think he has the perfect mix of tragedy, dark humor and horror. This is a pretty amazing film to watch on a couple levels but you have to give a lot of credit to the special effects department. It's rather remarkable watching the transformation of this lawyer as he starts off at 300 pounds and then quickly melts away to basically a skeleton. I really thought every level of the effects were terrific and what really blew my mind were the shots of the lawyer's face and the way they were able to work with it to bring this rather scary story to life. The scenes of the lawyer as a skeleton were remarkable to look at and I think it helps a lot that the screenplay is so good at making you feel bad for him even if you don't agree with him getting away for what he did. The performances are another major plus with Burke doing a terrific job in the lead role. I thought he was perfect whether he was playing the overweight guy or the more tortured one as his life starts to go by him. Joe Mantegna is also good in his role as one of the lawyer's clients but I will admit that everything dealing with his character in the final act was a bit overblown. Even the cameo by King is handled pretty well. THINNER has an easy story that anyone could connect with and the questions it raises about revenge and the downfall of it are very entertaining. This here certainly ranks as one of the better horror adaptations from King and it's also worth noting how much DRAG ME TO HELL ripped off several key plot points. "},{"Title":"Risky oral pleasure and the white man from town.","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thinner is directed by Tom Holland who co-adapts the screenplay with Michael McDowell from the novel written by Stephen King (as Richard Bachman). It stars Robert John Burke, Joe Mantegna, Lucinda Jenney, Bethany Joy Lenz and Michael Constantine. Music is scored by Daniel Licht and cinematography by Kees Van Oostrum.When obese lawyer Billy Halleck (Burke) kills a gypsy woman by way of his careless driving, the gypsy community are stunned to see him escape punishment due to his connections. Approaching Halleck, gypsy elder Tadzu Lempke (Constantine) strokes his face and simply utters the word thinner.........Stephen King adaptations to the screen are many, a sure fire fact that accompanies this well mined source is that for every good one, there are ten bad ones. Thinner falls some way in between. On one hand it's a deliciously creepy premise (curse on the guilty) that's well acted and has a mean streak constantly running through it (treble doses of revenge). On the other it's a wasted opportunity to explore certain themes (gluttony, crooked law people) whilst proving dishonourable to Gypsies (they end up the baddies here!). The make up effects veer from the awful (Burke in fat suit with latex face), to the better (Burke emaciated). It is, all told, a very mixed bag of a film, a thriller more than a horror, yet always entertaining and holding the attention as we wait to see how it will pan out. With the finale very much worth waiting for.You will search in vain for someone to actually like here, and you are asked to ignore some very mixed messages. But if taken on its basic low budget thriller turns, Thinner is a decent King adaptation. 6.5/10 "}{"Title":"Wonderful Stephen King adaptation","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a great movie with a lot of re-play-ability potential. I didn't read the book, but I could almost Stephen Kind writing every line and every character's actions. What a fun-filled movie filled with suspense, intrigue, and loss. I loved this film, I am only sad I wasn't turned onto it sooner. It was one of the Horror Genre what-if's? by far. Loved it loved it loved it. Solid from the start to the finish. One of the best Stephen King books transposed into a film. Only the movies Pet Semetary and Christine moved me as much as this film did. It was OK, but was so wattered down for the TV viewing audience. Misery was a masterpiece who's actor's made up for the serious subject line gap. "},{"Title":"Stupid, but strangely entertaining...","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Stephen King's Thinner is about an obese man who starts to lose weight at the rate of three pounds a day. He loses so much weight, in fact, that he starts to become too thin. I'm being erased! he yells, saying it just right so that they can slap it on the trailer for the film (which I would not be surprised to find that they did).The fat man is played by Robert John Burke, who looks painfully funny in his fat suit and painfully unfunny as a sickened thin man. When the movie opens, we meet Burke's character, who is a waddling hot-shot lawyer. After winning a legal case for a friend, he goes out and eats. He always eats. Perhaps that is why he weighs over 300 pounds.One night after eating at a fancy restaurant, he hits a gypsy woman running across a street in the opposite direction of a pharmacy (run by none other than Stephen King himself). She is hit by the car, goes flying into the air, and dies. Since our fat buddy has friends in the way of the law, he gets off easy. But the gypsy's father (Michael Constantine) takes justice into his own matters, by putting a gypsy curse on the man who killed his daughter. Thinner, he whispers, running the back of his hand along the man's cheek.The next day, the strangest thing has happened. Fatso has lost three pounds--and this rate continues for quite a while, until he finally decides to find the gypsy man and command him to take the curse off. Otherwise, he will be erased from existence and he might never be able to eat again!There's an amusing character on television by the name of Jiminy Glick, played by Martin Short. Jiminy Glick is basically Martin covered in a fat suit. He then interviews celebrities in a humorous manner and stuffs his face with donuts--even if he's choking he's still eating. It's sad to think that the makeup in Thinner are less impressive than a television show. Martin Short looks like a fat man on Primetime Glick. Robert John Burke looks like he's trying to be funny. The fat on his cheeks are so obviously fake, while his stomach is nothing but, methinks, some stuffed pillows and bedsheets. It looks as if they weren't quite done working on him when filming started--when he walks, you can practically see the ragged edges of the cushions sticking out from his extra-large clothing. And when he talks and smiles...let's just say the rubber on his face doesn't exactly hold together.But that doesn't matter, because I had fun watching Thinner. There are some much better horror films out there to be had, for sure, but this movie, though ludicrously low-budget, is fun to watch, and it does keep your interest for the most part. It gets a bit strange towards the end, but the very final climax of the movie left me a bit startled and a bit surprised. It wasn't expected. Thinner is just like all the other Stephen King horror adaptations out there. But there's some fun to be had in this one.3/5.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Read the book.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Reading Thinner the book about 2 years ago before the movie came out. When I heard a movie was coming out about this book, I though that it would be as good or better than the book. How wrong I was? Everything is the same as written in the book. The film lacked feeling of the characters in the story. Do not waste your time watch this movie. Read the book instead. "},{"Title":"White Man from Town says check it out","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alright people, what's up with all the negative reviews for this flick? Coming from a horror fan, I loved Thinner...simple as that. Working from a story by Stephen King, this is Tom Holland's return to kick-ass horror. Billy Halleck is a very overweight attorney who is cursed by a Gypsy after an unfortunate automobile accident. That's the set-up for this cautionary tale about accepting guilt. Greg Cannom's (Bram Stoker's Dracula) make-up is superb, the guy has two academy awards for Christ's sake. So lighten up. Joe Mantegna is hilarious as Ritchie the Hammer and Robert John Burke is intense (I'm being ERASED!). There might be a little hammy acting here and there, but what would a horror movie be without that? The story is just superb and the line between good and evil is very blurry here. Having no good guy makes it a very interesting film and a little more realistic. It's a perfect thriller in the Tales From the Crypt vein. "},{"Title":"BLEH","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  boring, annoying characters, BAD ACTORS. good thing this movie wasnt in the movie theaters! whoaaa it stunk! the main character...the fat guy..is so annoying. ugh. and the scene where they hit the old woman was acted out so badly. i mean, the wife could have looked a little more shocked. bad movie in my opinion...... "},{"Title":"not worth getting drawn in","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Caught this on TV, and was curious or bored enough to watch to the bitter end.  Anyone ever in a similar position, I advise skip it.It was amusing (and appropriate?) to recognize the voice of Fat Tony from The Simpsons (Joe Mantegna).The fat and thin FX were fair.  The problem I had was that evil is all powerful in a lot of these hack horror pieces by King, Saul, et. al., and innocent people get horrible, horrifying things they don't deserve (like in real life), but not only is good powerless, it is completely absent and nonexistent.At the end, I suppose we are supposed to identify with the main character as he serves pie to the man he (rightly or wrongly? it wasn't clear) suspects of cuckolding him ala Hannibal in SotL or moments in Psycho, but we simply never found anything in the character to like or find interesting in the first place for that to work. "},{"Title":"thinner needs to GAIN public exceptance","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'd have to say that THINNER is the worst movie known to the IMDB and public viewing for that matter, as is can barely call itself a thriller/horror the only thing that rattled me in the film is how someone can be so repulsively OVERWEIGHT! Although that can't even be classed as scary since the fat wasnt even believable! For a 1996 movie which was an odd 7yrs ago with technology nearing its peak this movie still embodied fake blood, bad makeup and poor special effects. I found movies such as Rosemary's Baby, the Omen, Carrie and Psycho scary which were made years and years ago if this trash i.e. thinner is what we have to expect for modern day films be very afraid! I'm warning - you watch this movie if you are starting an EFFECTIVE diet plan. -10000000\10  "},{"Title":"you'll end up wanting to watch the whole thing","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     From the reviews here, it's hard for someone who hasn't seen it to make an informed decision about the film. Some people say there's too much talking, but the make-up's really good, some say the make up was so bad and not enough explanation-dialogue! Whatever.....(I'm sure most people who read this anyway have already seen the flick...    Well, what can I say? I don't read books, so I can only go by the movie <Thinner>. With 2 words, I can describe it as creepy and engrossing. The main character is never shown as a likeable guy (at least in my POV) and I don't want to ruin anything, but...he's really mean! You'll see what he does when you watch it... I don't remember how good or bad the acting was....probably 'cause I got it into my head that I would be seeing a horror movie; I guess the acting was pretty good. The more the film progresses, the more you want to see the outcome and just how thin the character will be getting.  As far as gore, there isn't much (THANK GOD!), but there is an eerily yucky scene that I can still remember...when he is very thin and the gypsy comes back to him and gives him a pie to give to someone to reverse the curse.   Anyway, the main character is never likeable(but that's ok), and this movie doesn't do the usual 'horror movie thrills -n- chills' to 'ya, but it's actually kinda' funny sometimes and has a GREAT ending.( albeit a mean one!)-Sep  "},{"Title":"Waste of  time","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The plot of The Thinner is decidedly thin. And gross. An obese lawyer drives over the Gypsy woman, and the Gypsy curse causes him to lose and lose weight... to the bone. OK, Gypsy curses should be entertaining, but the weight-losing gone bad? Nope. Except Stephen King thinks so. And Michael McDowell, other horror author and the screenwriter of this abysmal film, does so, too. The lawyer is not only criminally irresponsible, he is fat too, haha! The Thinner is like an immature piece of crap for a person who moans how he/she has never seen anything so disgusting than fatness. Hey, I can only say Well, look at the mirror. "},{"Title":"Undercooked (sic) Bachman/King story, hamstrung by poor acting and production values","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It seems to me that Stephen King's Bachman pen-name was a way for him to put out some of the grimmer, rawer, more mean-spirited stuff that he wanted to write without 'contaminating' his 'brand name'. If you look back at the Bachman Books (Running Man, The Long Walk, Roadwork, Thinner) you notice they have a sealed-in feeling of airlessness and hopelessness about them that is distinct from mainstream King. I realize that we are talking about the guy whose first novel featured a humiliated, blood-covered, emotionally crippled teenage girl slaughtering everyone at her high school prom...but mainstream King always at have characters and plot elements that leaven the grimness of the proceedings a bit, and mostly have endings that offer at least a glimpse of hope and human feeling. Bachman books are just plain mean and always end badly. (BTW, Pet Semetary could have easily been a Bachman book if King hadn't revealed the alias by then. And The Dark Half seems to be at least partially about his Bachman persona.)Thinner was the last Bachman book, and man, with its themes of class warfare, revenge, and death by starvation, it is nasty. So it should be no surprise that the movie follows suit. What is a surprise is that the adaptation seems to be filmed at a TV Movie Of the Week level of talent instead of something worthy of a theatrical release. (These days, something like this would probably go directly to DVD or cable). The makeup work and the striking motif (starving to death in the midst of plenty, a metaphor for the overfed, undernourished American middle class if there ever was one) is all that keeps you watching this misfire. What went wrong? My first thought is that the director was going for the nasty Bachman vibe, but he also somehow sucked all the interest out of the movie with poor casting choices - the actors here (with the exception of Joe Monetegna) simply can't carry the movie. And then he squished the warmth and life out of the rest of the movie with awkward pacing and scene structure. Plus he couldn't leave the plot alone, and his changes don't really help. The script and dialog ought to work, but mostly the movie just lies there. Everything is muffled, dull, airless, and no fun to watch...with the vivid exception of the spectacle of the main character getting....thinner, and thinner, and thinner. As other have pointed out, Thinner is by no means the worst King movie ever made (or even the second worst). And it does have a dreadful, compelling fascination owing to the theme and the careful makeup work. But first time viewers should approach this one with lowered expectations. "}{"Title":"Something is wrong with this movie-surely it is.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is not as good as I hoped it would be.In fact,it is really lame.There are no actually scary parts,a lot of slow,boring scenes.The cast is awful,these people simply can't act at all(with the possible exception of Joe Mantegna),even no gore to satisfy gore-hounds(just a little bit).Director Tom Holland(Child's Play)fails to create any atmosphere.The film is dull,the first fifty minutes is pure crap,where almost nothing happens.The climax is pretty good and interesting though.Some time ago I saw Night Flier and that adaptation of Stephen King's story looks like a masterpiece in comparison to this trash.All in all I was bitterly disappointed with this one.I'm fairly concerned that Thinner is another mainstream horror garbage without any scares or invention.Don't waste your time unless you are a die-hard Stephen King's fan.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"I've seen cadavers in med school who looked healthier then you!","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" **SPOILERS** Thinner is a Steven King inspired film that's somewhat like the 1957 Sci-Fi thriller The Incredible Shrinking Man that has to do with a big big man being cut down to size. This time with a gypsy curse not a radioactive cloud or mist.The movie has to do with this 300 pound lawyer Billy Halleck, Robert John Burke, who while driving through town kept his eyes off the road, while having sex with his wife Heidi (Lucinda Jenny), and slammed into and killed Suzanne Lempke, Irma St. Paule. It turned out that Suzanne was the daughter of Gypsy Chieftain Tedzu Lempke, Michael Contantine, who's caravan was passing through town.Having the right connections by knowing the judge who's presiding on his case Billy gets a clean bill of health, or not guilty verdict, in Suzannes death. It's then when Billy's troubles really begin.An outraged Tedzu not only puts a gypsy curse on Billy by touching him and whispering Thinner but judge Cary Rossington (John Horton), who handed down the not guilty verdict, as well. Billy who's been trying to lose weight for years ends up getting his wish but not exactly the way he hoped it would be!Dropping weight at an accelerate rate Billy at the same time stuffs his face with cream pies chicken drumsticks beef patties and everything else that's in the fridge and food cabinets. Billy also has five course meals when out dining with his wife and fellow attorneys even wolfing down whatever is left before the waiter could clean it up! Feeling wonderful at first Billy soon realizes that something just isn't right with him dropping from an obese 300 to under 100 pounds in a matter of weeks!It becomes apparent to Billy that Tedzu had put a hex on him when his friend Judge Rossington who found him innocent comes down with a serious skin condition, looking like a gila monster, not long after Tedzu confronted him and whispered in his ear lizard!Realizing that he's going to end up an emaciated cadaver at the local medical school if his weight drop dose't end and end soon Billy tires to get Tedzu to call the curse off. This has Tedzu's hot blooded gypsy granddaughter Gina, Kerri Wuhrer, attacking the confused and now skinny man with a sling shot, using a steel ball bearing as a rock, almost tearing his hand off.Knowing that talking or bribing Tedzu won't help Billy gets in touch with his friend local Mafia bigwig Richie Ginille, Joe Montegna, to talk or beat some sense into him. It's then that the movie starts to get very very interesting. Going solo, like an army commando, Richie does a number on Tedzu's gypsy camp ending up killing Gabe, Terrence Kava, Gina's husband. Still Tedzu refuses to call the curse off with Billy, who's weight now dangerously dropping to Nazi concentration camp levels, now days if not hours away from attending his own funeral. Giving Billy a chance to stop the curse from finishing him off Tedzu feeling sorry, or wanting to stick to him even farther, for what he calls Billy the White Man from Town finally gives him a way out. It turns out that the way out of his pressing and shrinking problems is for Billy to makes them someone else's and guess just who that someone else turns out to be! "},{"Title":"Keep Your Eye on the Road","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Enjoyed viewing this Stephen King tale from his State of Maine and the great scenery in Maine with its great Victorian homes and small towns. Robert John Burke, (Billy Halleck) is a man who loves to eat food constantly and hit the scale of 300 lbs. and his wife, Lucinda Jenney,(Heidi Halleck) is after Billy to cut down and go on a diet. Heidi is a very petite pretty woman who looks like an ant next to poor Billy. Bill Halleck defends a big mobster named Richie Ginelli,(Joe Mantegna) and Joe is very grateful to Billy and after the trial tells Billy he owns him a big favor. Billy and Heidi are driving home from a party and Heidi decides to go down on Billy while he is driving and he kills a gypsy woman and from that point on in the film everything gets quite interesting. There is plenty of blood and gore and even strawberry pie is brought into the picture and some kind of a gypsy curse is placed on Bill Halleck. Even Stephen King appears in this picture as a drug store pharmacist who has a great deal of trouble trying to see people with his very thick lenses. "},{"Title":"White man from town","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed Thinner. A number of my friends are extras in this movie as it was taped in Maine (as King's movies should be) and talked about what they did everyday at taping. Because of this I had to see it. Even though I love King, I don't always like his movies, but this one stood up as a really fine movie. The actors did a wonderful job portraying the every changing characters. It might be a bit kitchy in places, but you want to watch to the final to find out what happens to all the main players. Personally (and this is saying a lot) I enjoyed this movie more than the novella it was taken from. It was also very cool to see some beloved friends on the big screen. I hope King stays true to his roots and tapes more good films from his solid writing in his beloved home state. "},{"Title":"Fun Thriller...as long as you don't expect too much.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, okay...so the acting was bad, the makeup wasn't quite awe-inspiring, and the cinematography was pathetic.  But how fun was this movie to watch? If you prepare yourself by getting in a Creature from the Black Lagoon mindset, expecting cheap attempts at scariness and cheap dialogue, you will love this movie.  Joe Mantegna pulls through as another hardcore italian that gets the job done.I like this movie because it's short, it never drags, and the plot moves along efficiently.  Sure, you can say I saw that coming all day long, but the way it was presented was thoroughly entertaining.  Just sit back, enjoy, laugh, and have a good time.  Don't expect an edge of your seat thriller.9/10 Mark Ramsey "},{"Title":"die clean","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've seen a lot of the movies based on Stephen King stories and I must say that Thinner is one of the best ones. It's not a horror film per say like Carrie but it's not a drama like The Shawshank Redemption either it's somewhere in between. What Thinner has is great direction by Tom Holland who has done quite a number of good horror films like Child's Play. He keeps the action flowing from one scene to the next and keeps the pace up without slowing down and getting the audience bored. He keeps the viewer interested and makes you want to see what will happen next. Michael McDowell did a fine job with the the screen play all the characters from Robert John Burke to Joe Mantegna all have great dialogue and are interesting enough that you care about them. I don't know how faithful the screenplay is to the book because I never read it but even if it wasn't faithful to the book I wouldn't care because it's so well done.Michael Constantine who plays the old gypsy who puts curses on people was great. He has some nice memorable lines and the way his voice sounds and the way he speaks is just so memorable that you will never forget him. Great makeup job on him too. Joe Mantegna who plays Richie the gangster so cool and calm and collected he steals every seen he's in. Robert John Burke who plays the fat lawyer who gets cursed is decent but not outstanding. I think he goes over the top a bit. He certainly is not as good as Constantine or Mantegna but their acting is so high level it's hard to match up to them. The only bad thing I can say about this movie is that their is a scene with 2 gypsies and they do something that I think is completely out of character for them. Are gypsies murderous people I don't think so.Thinner doesn't have a ton of blood and gore just a little bit so you won't get all queasy from watching it. Their are certainly bloodier Stephen King movies than this but not many that are better. If you want to see a good horror-drama and are a Stephen King fan you should see this. It's one of the best Stephen King movies I've ever seen I wish I'd seen it sooner. the surprise twist ending is great too. ***out of****. "},{"Title":"An Average Stephen King Horror Movie.","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Thinner is an interesting movie by Stephen King,its got all the strange twists and turns,its just so different than any other horror movie.This movie lacked in many ways,the movie didnt have enough detail into the storyline,it was very blank. The good things were the actual twists,i liked the strange characters,the makeup was awfully done to make the main character fat,you can see the mask around him,thats why this movie also slumped.The gypsy story itself was a little confusing,yet it had its moments,the thing that i really enjoyed about this film were the revenge scenes,they were intense and well done.The other characters espcially that of his wife and daughter was very well done,the film was scary in its own way,it didnt have any SHOCKS or loud noises,it was just there,but this movie didnt do enough to make it anywhere near a masterpiece.IN OVERALL I GIVE THINNER    ( 6 out of 10)GOOD POINTS OF FILMInteresting Dialogues/Intense at times/Similar to great book.BAD POINTS OF FILMNot enough detail in story/Unrealistic Makeup.  "},{"Title":"OK so its not a classic but you cant say its not great","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Is movie Thiner is based on the book by Stephen King . Watable movie to almost all horror fans . It is about a really fat (F A T NOT PHAT )He just cant lose weight . He has been on so many diets its not even funny . Well one day when his wife is in the car with him he is gets a blow job . ( They dont show anything ) By accident he runs over a gyspy . A few days later a gyspy goes up to him and toachs his head and says Thiner or thingthing like that . Days go by and he is gets thiner , thiner , thiner , and thiner . Well he still keeps eating but he is still gets thiner . His wife and family is very worried about him . His friend starts killing all kinds of the gypys family . Finally the leader of the gypsys tells him away to get the spell off . *** Spoiler coming up *** If your going to see the movie dont read this part . Welll he has to give the spell to someone else to tyake it off . The spell is in a cake and he give the cake to his wife to eat . *** stars out of four . Watch this movie if your a horror fan .  "},{"Title":"He never takes it off","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To those who say this is the worst movie they have ever seen, try sitting through Sunset Park, Con Air, or What Dreams May Come. Those are bad, horrible, socially unredeemable movies. Thinner, while no Shawshank Redemption, is not the worst movie ever. Every role is a perfect example of over-the-top camp. Every line has a perfect, deliberate delivery. Every character has a purpose in the film. This film is not scary, this film is not great, but this film is fun. Watch it with a smile on your face and watch it with the intention of making fun of it, a little Mystery Science Theater if you will, and I guarantee you'll be happy to see it next time it is on late night cable. "},{"Title":"Loved the movie and I loved the book","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a classical Stephen King story where an unsuspecting every-day-man encounters something supernatural and scary. Through an accident that was arguably not entirely his fault, mostly not his fault, a gypsy dies and he gets cursed by the victims family. When he realizes he is cursed he tries to apologize and repent but they basically tell him to go suck it.And this is the part I find most awesome. He fights back the way I would fight back if I were put in that situation. He says he puts a curse of them. The curse of the white man from town. The curse of the white man from town involves, among other things, a mobster assassin . And highly corrosive acid of course. "}{"Title":"Average entertainment","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I haven't read the Stephen King novel on which this was based so I can't judge it as an adaptation but as a stand alone film it on the whole quite average with the odd eye opening moment scattered throughout. The story of a fat man dying by becoming emaciated is itself enough to tempt a hardened and cynical viewer to dismiss the film almost immediately but strangely enough I found myself compelled to see how our hero would break the hold of the Gypsy curse. The special effects and acting are actually above par with special mention deserving for Joe Mantegna and Kari Wurher (Anaconda). The latter also provides one of the more eyebrow raising moments in the film. Finally I should add that the DVD commentary is interesting in that it explains the considerations that went into selecting the ending the director and producers finally went with. 6/10.    "},{"Title":"By the book adaptation","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am not one of those who think King is a great writer, his books are fine distractions for a few hours, and often have interesting premises, however they, in my opinion, fall apart pretty rapidly if you give them any serious thought.This film suffers from being a pretty exact re-telling of King's story. If you have read the book, there are zero surprises, no changes, no altering of scenes or characters. This is a film made by King fans for King fans.For the rest of us, there is nothing terrible about the film, it is a 'gypsy curse' horror, with its twist being the curse being something many people wish for, to become thinner. The final third has some severe structural problems, and the slightly forced ending seems to break the rules of this genre a little.There are worse ways to spend 90 minutes of your life, but you might as well read the book, because there is nothing new here... "},{"Title":"Underrated thriller","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I bought and saw this movie two days ago, I wanted to buy it because the I really thought the plot was interesting, and Joe Mantegna acts in one of my favourite TV shows, Criminal Minds. I supposed that I was going to like it, but not as much as I did. At least for me, it's not an horror movie, it never scared me, but it was very disturbing and the main actors (Robert Burke, Michael Constantine and Joe Mantegna) were great. I was in tension during the 90 minutes of the film, though it has some funny moments, especially when The Hammer begins to help his lawyer. P.S I'd give it a 7/10, but I've give a 10 because I think it deserves more than a 5.2. PS.2 I'm Spanish, so, sorry for my poor English. "},{"Title":"a Stephen King novel that actually translates well to the screen.yay!","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" as far as Stephen King adaptations go,this is one of the better ones.the story is very creative and inventive.it's dark and mysterious and very creepy.i wouldn't call it scary,but i could see how some people might think it is.there's a lot of mysticism in this one.it's a real morality fable.it basically shows that everything you do,good or bad,comes back to you.in this case,it's bad,very bad evil,in fact.even though an innocent act is to blame for a deadly occurrence that act comes back to haunt the characters involved,in spades.the innocent act which starts the chain of events is actually very amusing.anyway,i really liked this movie.for some inexplicable reason the story translates well to the screen.don't ask me why.have no idea.but the thing is,it works.For me,Thinner is a strong 8/10 "},{"Title":"disturbing but lame flick","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  disturbing but lame flick has decent acting but it gets much too silly for it's own good shoddy direction and the weak ending hamper it this had a lot of potential instead this is just a passable flick  that is not worth your time *1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe this movie only has a rating of 4.9 it should be higher these people are idiots. This movie has a great story and all the scenes move along well. Kari Wurher is hot too! In this movie Billy, a 300 pound lawyer runs over some nasty ugly old gypsy when she walks out in the middle of the road so a 106 year old gypsy puts a curse on him that makes him lose weight really fast, he tends to lose about 3 pounds a day. Joe Mantegna does a great job too he's got a cool voice. Overall this movie is better than it's current rating of 4.9 I'd give it at least a 6 or 7.  "},{"Title":"Great concept","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A fat man, actually a very nasty lawyer type, gets a curse put on him where he loses 7 pounds a day.  At first its great, but latter on it becomes a slow burn, or as he puts it I am being erased.  It is not horror in the conventional way, where a man jumps out of the closet with a butcher knife, it is way more psychological.  A slow death, where he has to do anything or he will die.  This is a great concept, and the viewer slowly watches the fat man, become anoretic.  This move made me want to eat after I watched it, because its one errie feeling watching the transformation.  True horror because the victim punishment is so severe.  "},{"Title":"a very good movie","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i don't under stand why this movie has such a low rating because its one of my favorite movies its really good like plus anything that has anything to do with Stephen king should at least have a seven well all in all i really enjoyed this film and i bet u will twothis definitely isn't Stephen's kings best work but its still good and better then a five rating and if u don't like this movie there's something wrong with you sorry but its just to good for anyone not to likeyou all should see this movie its very good and i still don't under stand the low rating but its from people comparing it to the book the book was geart but so was the movie even though it doesn't have every little detail that was in the book "},{"Title":"Bad attempt at horror","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is quite possibly one of the worst films I've seen so far.  The word cheesy doesn't even come close to describing this.  A major disappointment. The only half-way entertaining thing was the idea that the fat man's wife was giving him oral sex.  But that's only good for perverts such as myself.  =) "},{"Title":"Has two or three good points, but that's it","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I do like Stephen King's work, but this film adaptation didn't work for me. I did like Robert John Burke(though I do think Billy Halleck, despite Burke's charisma should have been much more tortured in characterisation here), the makeup/effects which are surprisingly good and Joe Mantegna who steals every scene he's in, but that's it. The production values are alright, but there are some transitions between scenes that looked rather choppy and some of the lighting is so dim it is hard to make out what's happening in some scenes. The dialogue is fairly stupid and clunky, and the story is rather slow moving with an ending that felt reminiscent of a badly done parody of Tales from the Crypt or something or other. I think because of the slow pace and the laughable dialogue, not to mention the weak characterisation of most of the characters especially the negatively stereotyped Gypsies, there is a lack of genuine atmosphere in Thinner. Overall, just didn't work. 3/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was disappointed by every part of this movie shy of make-up. A start to finish snoozer. Rent this movie only if you are a blood relative of Stephen King.  "},{"Title":"Sweet as pie.","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first started watching this, I thought that the beginning was really cheesy. There was this smiling fat lawyer who ate and ate and bobbled up and down the steps. The movie started to get good when the lawyers wife got his mind off food and into his pants. Billy is driving along and then before he knows it, he is cursed. The fat smiling, bobbling man becomes a bean pole of his former self. By the end, the fat and jolly has turned into revengeful and waif-like. I really enjoyed watching him change because it wasn't just the gypsy man getting revenge, Billy wanted revenge as well. I also really enjoyed the movie after I got past the cheesy parts in the beginning. I also like how the lawyers client gets involved in the ending. The last half of the movie is just great because I really like revenge movies and this one has revenge inside a strawberry pie. "},{"Title":"have something to eat","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Though far from the best adaptation of a Stephen King novel, Thinner is certainly worth seeing. After Maine lawyer Billy Halleck (Robert John Burke) accidentally kills a Gypsy woman, the woman's father (Michael Constantine) puts an emaciating curse on him. Slowly but surely, Halleck thins to a dangerous level. In my opinion, probably the neatest character was Joe Mantegna - who turns sixty today - as Halleck's friend he came across sort of like Mantegna's mafia characters written by Stephen King! So, this is a movie that I think people should reconsider. It's got that real sense that something isn't right, and slowly but surely the ugly truth gets revealed...with some pretty unpleasant scenes along the way.Also starring Lucinda Jenney, and Stephen King in a bit part. "},{"Title":"Kind of strange flick.","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Odd (but genuinly entertaining) horror movie  about a man that is cursed by a gypse, slowly turning him into a evil creature.......Rather odd flick does have some excellent make-up effects and  some decent gory moments. But it has some disturbing (and useless) scenes that tend to hammer this otherwise decent movie. "},{"Title":"Finally a good Steven King adaptation","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by how well Thinner was produced.  It wasn't anything special, but it did stick quite closely to the book, which, after the Stand, is my favorite of King's.  But unlike The Stand's horrible TV-movie translation, this one had fine acting and a good, clean script that stuck to the novel quite well and conveyed Billy's desperation and hunger (pun not intended) for revenge against his wife.  Having loved the twist ending in the novel, I thought they did a great job with it in the movie. Rent it! "},{"Title":"AVERAGE FLICK!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An average Stephen King novel adaption. Not a great movie. The story follows a fat Lawyer who finds himself growing Thinner when an old gypsy man places a hex on him. Now the lawyer must call upon his friends in organized crime to help him persuade the gypsy to lift the curse. Time is running out for the desperate lawyer as he draws closer to his own death, and grows ever thinner.  I didn't really like this film, although it did have it's moments, watching the lead actor go through certain stages of weight lose was done well. The gypsy man was done well and the friend in organized crime was a great charcter. Not a horror for it's violence and gore but for the themes involved more of an adult horror, a thinking horror. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all....","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A lot of Stephen King's stories have been destroyed in transition to the movies, so when this came on my cable channel I started watching with my thumb on the remote. Surprisingly, I never pressed a button. This really was quite good as adaptations of King's work go. Very watchable, decent performances, great makeup, never boring, and from what I remember about the book, reasonably faithful to the source material.Worth watching. Beware the Curse of the White Man from Town. "},{"Title":"He was a mook, but he was my mook!","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have only read a couple of Stephen King's books, so I can't comment on whether this is a great adaptation, but it certainly was an interesting movie.One has to stretch their imagination to believe in curses, but if you suspend belief for a while, this film is just plain scary. Not since The Machinist, have I seen such a figure as Robert John Burke (Good Night and Good Luck) as he went down to 120 pounds.Joe Mantegna was great as the mob buddy. Michael Constantine was really a believable gypsy, and his daughter Kari Wuhrer (The Hitcher II I've Been Waiting, Hellraiser Deader) was one of the best parts of the movie. For Stephen King fans, he was in it also. "},{"Title":"I wanted to hate it but alas......","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There are lots of things i can criticise about this movie, far more than i can praise but when all is said and done Thinner is an Entertaining movie if you dont take it too seriously. The acting is poor , the screen adaptation from the book is no great shakes and the make up ( especially when the guy is fat)is poor at times but its short and it has the basis of a great story. you cant help but like it! 6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Plot Thinner","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Welcome to KingLand! Please note that you are parked in Dopey 96.  First stop is Phony Baloneyland, where a gypsy camp is set up in the townsquare! Cockfights, fun and fortune-telling for all!  Bring the kiddies!  Uh oh! Watch the Gypsy King's old-as-dirt daughter go back for her coat for no apparent reason!  Ten points!  Hit her!  Now we're deep into KingLand where curses are complimentary and spread around like margarine on dry toast. Follow our Tubby hero as he waddles about and then wearily wanes to nill. Be careful, though, when Gypsy King turns to Betty Crocker!  Blood pudding? Feh!  Try the yummy strawberry pie!  Now we're cooking with gas!  Sorry to wrap up so quick but gather your personal belongings, take small children firmly by the hair and hope for better times at KingLand.   "}{"Title":"Good, good, GOOD!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A surprisingly good adaptation of King's early novel! In fact, among the TV movies - not cinema releases - based on his work, this is probably the best. Good acting, fair effects - with the amazingly convinving and the transformation of ultra-overweight Burke into an ultra-underweight one - good script, and skilled directing... What's more, this is one of those rare instances where, in some aspects, a movie turns out better than the book it was based on. I'm referring to the ending here - I liked the movie's ending MUCH better than the book's one, which I always found annoying. The film's version of the conclusion is, I would say, much more satisfying... >) "},{"Title":"Great Stephen King movie!","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a really great movie! It stayed true to the book (by Stephen King writing as Richerad Bachman. Why does he do that?). Basically it's about Billy, who runs over a Gypsy. Her father takes revenge by putting a curse on him (and the judge and lawyer that helped him get away with the murder). He has to chase the Gypsies around with the help of his friend. He gets too thin. Can he survive? I suggest you read the book first, then buy it or rent it. I love this movie! (It might sound boring, but it really exciting. Just read it or watch it!) Go on! Go buy it.Anita_Blake_Fan "},{"Title":"A Great, Intelligent Horror Film!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've just finished watching 'Thinner' and I must say how impressed I was by every aspect of this film. The writing and directing are top notch, as is the acting. I cannot see why this film received such a low rating! If nothing else, this film deserves it's just desserts. How about some strawberry pie? "},{"Title":"A gypsy curse succeeds where diets don't.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Based on an interesting Stephen King novel, THINNER has just enough edge to keep you wide eyed and interested. Michael McDowell's screenplay is faithful to King's story. Billy Halleck(Robert John Burke)is an obese man who is fed up with dieting. Things change after an unfortunate accident causes a gypsy to place a curse on Halleck and soon the rotund man begins wasting away. Also in the cast areLucinda Jenney, Sam Freed, Joe Montegna, Michael Constantine, Kari Wuhrer and King's cameo as Dr. Bangor. King's macabre tale relates well to the screen.  "},{"Title":"Under-rated","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As far as adaptations of King's work go, this isn't bad at all. Considering some of the other catastrophes based on King's work (The Tommyknockers, Kubrick's The Shining) it bears up well.  Entertaining throughout, although never really frightening, it's worth seeing, especially if you are a fan of King's work.  Of course it doesn't rank as highly as the other excellent King films (The Shawshank Redemption, Stand By Me, The Green Mile or the mini-series of The Stand) but it still didn't warrant the harsh criticism it received. "},{"Title":"A lawyer runs over an old gypsy woman and her father puts a curse on him.","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Just another example of why Stepehn King's books should not be made into movies. (Even Carrie, one of the best, is ruined in the adaptation from book to screen.) The premise of the story revolves around a fat lawyer, always on a diet, who accidentally kills an old gypsy woman. In court, with the help of the judge and the local police chief, he gets off, even though the accident was sort of his fault as he was not paying attention as he was driving. The father of the dead gypsy woman places a curse on the 3, with our main character, Billy (the lawyer) getting thinner and thinner by the day. Though the movie kept with the book, for the most part, and has your typical King ending, the acting was stilted and felt forced. We went from one scene to the next without much of anything in between, sort of like reading acts in a play. King himself made a cameo in the movie (sort of like Dave Barry), which reinforces my belief that authors should stay just that authors. Leave the acting to actors. Not that anyone in this movie was that great. I've seen the major characters in movies where they were much better. "},{"Title":"Thinner!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thinner is a very good horror film that has a good cast which includes Robert John Burke, Joe Mantegna, Lucinda Jenney, Michael Constantine, Kari Wuhrer, John Horton, Daniel von Bargen, and Stephen King! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Burke is really excellent in this film. I thought that he performed good. Mantegna and Constantine also have great performances! The thrills is really good and the horror is also good with some gore. The movie is filmed very good. The music is good by Daniel Licht. The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you are a fan of Robert John Burke, Joe Mantegna, Lucinda Jenney, Michael Constantine, Kari Wuhrer, the rest of the cast in the film, Horror, and Thrillers, and Stephen King then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was absolutely terrible. I can't believe I paid to see it in the theatre. I wouldn't watch it on free cable t.v. I'm surprised that Joe Magtena even made it. Do not waste your time with this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie will make think twice about being obese!","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Being overweight can be concerning to the individual to struggles to live. For lawyer Billy Halleck(Robert John Burke) this is a situation he'll never forget. His family is concerned about his 300 lbs frame, after the accident that claims the gypsy's daughter, he gets the weight loss he'll never imagine. The father graces his hand on the cheek and says, THINNER. The lawyer starts to see results, in an alarming rate! He knows that he's losing the weight which is good, but whatever he eats, he doesn't gain a pound. That's not good! So what does he do, gathers his friends to find the gypsy and lift the curse. Then when he does lift the curse on the lawyer, he puts it in the pie and tells the lawyer to die clean. I get the picture though. After seeing this movie, I said to myself, Stephen King really outdid himself with that story, I couldn't try making of movie with that character. The characters in the movie are great, and the intrigue really put me on the edge of my seat. A very fine movie. At least I won't make a pig out of myself when it ends. HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!!!!!! Rating 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"i was really scarred, especially when there were situations afoot.","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The best thing in the world is this movie. I never knew, previously, that gypsies roamed up and down the coasts of Maine but now that I do know I will take great care not to run one down with my wheelchair. Because I think that not even supermodels should be that thin (I don't cave in to what society deems as being beautiful on the magazines).This is also a mobster movie because there is one mobster in it. He doesn't have any goons or fit in to any discernible pre-existing hierarchy, but I suppose if anyone carries around two mason jars of fake and real acid they don't have to.I couldn't eat pie for an entire hour after watching this movie, mostly because I'm scared to death of curses and things that move on their own. For example, lizards.speaking of lizards, there is a giant human one that scared me half to death and I had to call my children into the room to tell me that I wasn't just seeing things--they had to turn the TV off while my heart and minds recuperated. I felt like the twin towers had fallen all over again. "}{"Title":"It`s Not Too Bad","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like some of the reviews on this site , all the TV guides put the boot into THINNER but I don`t see what the problem is . Okay it`s by no means a great movie but it`s by no means as bad as I was expecting . The only things I disliked intensely was at the start of the film when the fat slobbish Billy was a little too hard to swallow ( Geddit ? ) as having a pretty blonde wife , and the not very convincing make up of the other Gypsy victims and maybe it would have been better if the audience never saw the effects of the curse on them , but I thought the rest of the movie played out okay and I liked the twist at the end . It`s by no means Oscar material but it`s better than a lot of movies I`ve seen based on King novels  "}]