[{"Title":"The Portrait of a Lady (1996)","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching Jane Campion's The Portrait of a Lady is kind of like watching a David Lynch movie it may not always work, but it never ceases to be interesting. After winning an Oscar for writing The Piano and becoming only the second woman to ever be nominated for the Best Director Academy Award, hopes were high for what Campion had in store for us next, and perhaps some were disappointed by this flawed -- but good, nevertheless -- entry in her resume. But I wasn't (at least, not for the most part). Okay so maybe this isn't a masterpiece in the vein of The Piano, but since when was everything supposed to be? What's important is that Campion tried something different and made a rather good movie in the process. The Portrait of a Lady marks another screen adaptation for the popular period novelist Henry James, and though it may not be as great an adaptation as, say, The Wings of the Dove, it is certainly one of the most peculiar. Peculiar in how it is treated, that is, not in the subject matter (which boils down to the typical money-hungry snobs searching for romance); rather than taking the Merchant Ivory route, Campion delivers a much looser interpretation of the material, starting with an opening sequence that features a multitude of modern women staring blankly at the screen, one of them dancing to the music of her walkman. While I'm still unsure as to whether or not her liberal vision works, I'm pleased that Campion had the nerve to try it. The Portrait of a Lady tells the story of a young American woman (played, oddly enough, by Aussie actress Nicole Kidman) who inherits a fortune and is seduced by a manipulative artist (John Malkovich) while a mysterious woman (Barbara Hershey) pulls the strings; ultimately, Kidman has to decide the spouse for her stepdaughter, and choose which life she wants to lead herself. The cast of Portrait of a Lady is something to salivate over aside from the aforementioned stars, Shelley Winters, Christian Bale, Shelley Duvall, and John Gielgud are just a few of the A-list actors that make an appearance (also, keep your eye open for Viggo Mortensen, now famous for playing Aragorn in The Lord of the Rings trilogy). Kidman is appropriately melodramatic, and Malkovich is phenomenal (as always), but the Academy did right in recognizing the most outstanding performance of the picture, Barbara Hershey's (who earned a nomination for Best Supporting Actress) she is both cold and wildly emotional, mystical and open, and she does it all with the grace and confidence of a true star. The script features some terrific dialogue, but at two-and-a-half hours, it runs a little long at times; Campion keeps the pace moving with her innovative direction (which features tilted camera angles, a throwback to silent black-and-white films, and a stunning romantic fantasy sequence), but one wonders if she doesn't try a little too hard at times. Yet as with any good period piece, when the story slacks, the costumes and art direction act as a worthy distraction (as they often do here). It is also worth noting the lush original score by Wojciech Kilar, which makes everything seem far more fascinating than it truly is. The Portrait of a Lady never reaches any true emotional or artistic depth, but I wasn't expecting it to I was simply expecting something that was good to look at with just enough plot to keep me interested throughout, and that's what I got.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Misses the mark, but shouldn't be entirely dismissed","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I read DAISY MILLER in high school and was completely unengaged, that set me off the wrong foot with Henry James.  I also dislike his over-attentiveness to detail, and I must confess a prejudice against any writer who says in 10 pages what they could just have easily said in 2.  Yet THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY, once you get into it, turns out to be quite a powerful novel, and given how much I loved THE PIANO, I was really looking forward to what Jane Campion could bring to it.  Rarely have I seen a movie version, though, which is so far off the mark but still has worthy parts to it.Let's start with the mistakes.  Campion claimed she was re-imagining the story of Isabel Archer, an American woman of character but not of means, who eventually marries unhappily, instead of just giving a straight filmed version.  That's all well and good, but what she and writer Laura Jones do is all but gut the motivations behind the story; we don't see Archer's vitality early on, so we have nowhere to go when she falls, and we don't see what draws people to her.  And when Madame Merle and Osmond appear, they are so obviously snakes in the grass that we think Archer is a fool for trusting them, instead of feeling empathy for her.  It doesn't help that Malkovich is so obviously bored here he does nothing to exude any charm.  Hershey comes off better, but what's done with her character is a little strange as well.Nevertheless, this movie can't be easily dismissed.  First of all, Campion's gift for imagery still comes through; she visually expresses the passions lying hidden in the novel, which few directors do when adapting period pieces.  Also, Kidman grows more confident as the movie wears on, so we do get a sense of Isabel.  But as someone already commented, the most worthy element here is Martin Donovan as Ralph, Isabel's sickly cousin in love with her, and whose advice sets the whole story in motion.  He doesn't play for sentiment, but earns it instead.  The ending also keeps its power.  Still, this is quite a missed opportunity for Campion. "},{"Title":"A woman is torn between independence and love in this feminist adaptation of Henry James' novel.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many people could not warm up to this remarkable adaptation of Henry James' novel, A Portrait of a Lady.  The dark, abusive themes and open ending are not part of typical costume drama fare, but both are true to Henry James' novel and to Jane Campion's vision.Henry James originally wrote the novel in the 1880s.  Intended as an exploration of what a woman might do if she were given independent means, James' book indicts women as being trapped by a weaker nature.  Exploring the same material Campion's movie comes to a different conclusion.The adaptation and direction are superb.  The movie maintains the steady rhythm of doom that makes James' novel an enduring classic.  There is no place where this is more evident in the film than in its lingering images. The camera holds on to the subject a moment longer than expected, making the viewer a little uncomfortable, and anticipating sudden disaster that never quite arrives.  Ms. Campion directs this film like a horror film, which is exactly what it is.The acting in this film is also convincing, from Nicole Kidman's paralyzed Isabel, to John Malkovich as a hypnotically terrifying pursuer.  They are backed by a solid cast of major actors in minor roles, all adding to Isabel's complex societal tragedy.Portrait of a Lady, particularly this film adaptation, is a remarkable example of how stories may stay the same, but their meanings change over time.Related films include  Washington Square (1997), The House of Mirth (2000), The Buccaneers (1995)(mini). "},{"Title":"The Best Screen Adaptation of a Henry James Novel","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Given the tenor of some of the other reviews posted here, I should start by making the extent of my disagreements clear.First, this film is unquestionably Jane Campion's best work to date, and it represents, in particular, a significant advance beyond her previous work in The Piano.Second, this film, while unapologetically feminist in point of view, in no sense attempts to shoehorn James's artistic vision into an ideological box for which it is unsuited. On the contrary, James has probably never been more sensitively interpreted on screen.Third, purely as a film, The Portrait of a Lady belongs on a short shelf among the very best movies of the 1990's, of whatever genre.Consider what Campion was up against A literary adaptation, in the first place (itself almost a recipe for cinematic failure); a Henry James novel, in particular (a novelist who situated most of the action in his novels in the invisible social and psychological spaces between his characters, and whose works therefore constitute a kind of standing temptation to focus on picturesque/prestigious historical ambiance at the expense of narrative power); and a story, as James himself pointed out, centered on the seemingly quite confined topic of one very ordinary young woman's working out of her particular destiny.Out of these distinctly unpromising materials, Ms. Campion created a film in which nearly every scene adds depth and color to her story, even after repeated viewings. And her Isabelle Archer (beautifully realized by Nicole Kidman, in possibly her finest performance to date) is as fully tested and tried by life's moral and epistemological ambiguities, and as fully responsive to life's promise, on film, as Henry James's heroine is, on the printed page. One could hardly ask for more. "},{"Title":"Refined, elegant, exquisite, sublime a poetic rhapsody","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just three years after `The Piano', itself a well thought out and carefully prepared film, Jane Campion comes up with an adaptation of a Henry James novel that deserves just about the highest possible accolade. `The Portrait of a Lady' not only showed exquisite care in preparing the scenes of fragments of late 19th Century England and Italy and an accurate eye for the costumes, as well as some first class performances from the actors, but also a refined adaptation of this splendid novel.Henry James, North American, but lived most of his fruitful life in Great Britain, was himself an elegant literary figure whose writing easily overcame the frequently insipid hypocrasy of many Victorian era writers. He was able to hold an elegant story-line whilst obeying the formulas of the times, whereas many other novelists of the times could not, or changed literary formulas &#150; for example Dickens, and of course later Joseph Conrad (who was not British, anyway). However, his novels would seem to defy easy adaptation to celluloid Jane Campion and Laura Jones have pulled off one of the greatest feats ever in the cinematographic world. Very few literary delights are lost as the dialogues are scintillating, witty, or just simply elegant. Added to that, our old friend Sir John Gielgud plays his small part with that extreme tenderness which only old age and experience can lend; John Malkovich in this film shows that in many others he has been miscast under Jane Campion's orders he offers here a tremendous reading and understanding of the characteriology of Gilbert Osmond which James himself would have enjoyed seeing. Simply superb. Which I imagine is exactly what Jane Campion sought. Barbara Hershey was evidently inspired by this perhaps somewhat feminist interpretation of the novel, though by no means can we say that this was not what James intended; she was magnificent in her secondary rôle and well deserved her Oscar (though if you push me I suppose this film should have won all of the Oscars on offer in 1996&#133;&#133;&#133;.but it is not important, anyway). And&#133;&#133;hm Nicole Kidman? Forsooth, young man &#150; this creature can actually act; Ms Kidman is not limited to simply being the lovely young lady accompanying the leading actor, whoever he may be, as she has so often been doing in other films she also needed Jane Campion's inspiration to produce what surely must be her best performance to date.Wojciech Kilar's music is superb, beautifully synchronised with the film, offering rich orchestral tones, and the pieces of Schubert on the piano were well chosen, in line with everything else in this film. There were certain other fragments of music which I was not able to identify and may have been by Kilar himself. The music offered that final touch that elevated some moments to the heights of a poetic rhapsody. Stuart Drybergh's photography joined these sonorous accompaniments, soaring to supreme and wondrous revelations, visual aspects reaching state of the art perfection. Never have I seen so clearly in a film, to give but one example, the real difference in light on a sunny day in England and a sunny day in Italy&#133;&#133;&#133;..The New Zealand directress (sic, sorry) Jane Campion has carried out a masterpiece comparable with `Fanny och Alexander' that great film by the unique Ingmar Bergman. She accomplished with admirable precision and style exactly what Martin Scorsese failed miserably at with his `The Age of Innocence' (1993)(qv). I am expecting great things from Ms Campion she is not yet 50, and in the world of art 50 years of age is but the threshold to maturity. But with `The Portrait of a Lady' she has already reached such heights of perfection that it is seemingly impossible to go much further. Or can she?   "},{"Title":"A cool, enigmatic film, but stylish...","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An interesting film with an undercurrent of sexual repression similar to that in Campion's other films.  Nicole Kidman is excellent, given the material, though her transition from likeable, virtuous innocent to a cold and corrupted woman doesn't ring as true as it should--the three years glossed over with a subtitle isn't adequate to show the change.  I blame this on the interpretation, direction, and/or editing rather than Kidman's performance, however. Malkovich is not as strong, and one wonders what any woman could see in him as a lover. The ending is cold and unsettling.  Most filmgoers prefer to know that their hero/heroine is safe at the end of the story.  Here, who knows ?Production values are good, and the film is quite stylish with interesting use of camera tilt, lighting, and angles.  It's quite artsy.  I am glad I saw the film, but acknowledge it's not likely to be everyone's cup of tea.  "},{"Title":"Incomplete Portrait","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I vacillate between preferring films that do a simple thing extremely well (Muppet Movie) or those that shoot high and fail. This film is the latter.Campion has allied her aspirations with `women's' perspectives; honorable and rich enough. And she selects material ripe with possibilities. Clearly she has a vision, presumably extracted from the author's, but she fails to get on top of it.Part of the problem is the simplification of the book for the screenplay. We just don't get enough foundation for the travesty of person we witness. A large part of the problem is Ms Kidman. She simply doesn't have the depth to pull this off, though she wears the clothes well. We never really see her supposed extraordinary spirit, and never really see how she's trapped by that very same spirit. Malkovich doesn't help. Here, he's too one-dimensionally a schemer.Campion knows better than to throw in so many irrelevant film-school angles as a substitute for narrative reflection. This film is worth seeing as a study in how a spirited film maker is seduced by that very spirit into the superficialities of style, so is trapped. The ambiguous ending is, I think, Campion's limbo. Let's hope she escapes for her sake as well as ours. We need that spirit. "},{"Title":"Overwhelming!","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did not really like the movie, at first. Nice, okay, but that was all, I thought.. Meanwhile I read the novel, watched the film again and again... And I love it more and more! Okay, NOTHING compares to The Piano, but it's simply stunning.Jane Campion (what a director!) tells the fascinating story of Isabel in unforgettable pictures and very true to the original novel of Henry James. Nicole Kidman is just made to play the main-character and the whole cast is without exception astonishing and powerful. Kilar's musical score... A dream! Ardent, subtle themes, flowing and catchy. But not only that The film succeeded in picking out the two most beautiful Piano-Pieces Franz Schubert ever composed; and melts story, pictures and music perfectly together.To all the people who don't like or even hate The Portrait of a Lady I'd like to point out, it is a masterpiece! Point.Watch it in a rainy afternoon, listen closely to the music and check out the - without a doubt - most beautiful ending of film-history!Thank you. "},{"Title":"As underrated as The Piano is overrated. Superior psychology and story.","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This review mainly focuses on the comparisons with The Piano.A lot of people might say The Piano is a better movie. It is certainly a prettier movie with lush imagery and music, and especially the latter was somewhat lacking in this movie, in favor of a lot of dialogue.Portrait of a Lady is still far superior to The Piano in terms of story, acting and psychological depth. Where The Piano wasn't much more of an excuse to put some very pretty images and music on film, this movie actually has very real characters that don't just serve as eyecandy. The same goes for the scenery. Although some scenes definitely look lush, most of the movie looks quite dark, with little light and a blueish color overall. Quite fitting the mood, because it is a tale of an unhappy woman, who, despite her (financial) independence, and plenty of male admirers, fails in finding freedom and happiness, by making the wrong choices in life.John Malkovich is excellent as always as a dominant, insensitive and cruel husband, holding his daughter (from another marriage) perfectly on his leash, and attempting to do the same with Anne Archer who he marries. A far cry from the man we were supposed to hate in The Piano, but who I actually found sympathetic and felt sorry for (that was a difficult and unthankful role by Sam Neill, I think Campion was to blame). Mr. Osmond (Malkovich) was convincingly real and malicious, also because the character was reasonably well written and is pretty much the cause of everyone's misery, thus being the center of the story. Still, perhaps a little too onedimensional, but this seems to be a bit of a recurring Jane Campion flaw we put a male character in a movie and we have to make him look evil, while the women are mostly kindhearted (tho I did find the Holly Hunter character in The Piano quite unsympathetic). It seems to me that Campion has a much greater understanding of the female psyche than that of the male.Judging Portrait of a Lady overall, I have to conclude that it has excellent acting and a good tragic storyline that is involving enough. The camerawork and scenery serve their purpose, depicting a dark, somber environment in harmony with Anne's feelings (and to think that most of the film takes place in sunny Italy!). Some people may be however bored by the amount of dialogue and the lack of pace, and music. Others may find the main character too cold but I think she's not. Anne Archer is her own woman, a character well acted by Kidman, and has a good heart. She just seems to have trouble giving in to deeper desires, instead giving in to a destiny she believes to be hers, and thus suffering from a dominant husband. A popular theme among fin-de-siecle naturalist novels, the Inevitable Fate, and it is so ever tragically present here.I think there should be a lot more costume dramas like this one. The only movies like this one, which I also recommend, is The Age Of Innocence, and The Remains Of The Day. I prefer these movies, and Portrait Of A Lady, over Jane Austen adaptations because those depict too small a world with teaparties and marriages as the only things that matter in life. Fin-de-siecle films are much better tragedies.I give this one 7,5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better than expected...","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After the cool reception the film received I thought it would be very dull and pretentious. It´s much more interesting and does engage the viewer because of the tremendous acting. It´s wonderful with movies that give actors enough time and space to act out all the emotions in their character -very rare...Nicole Kidman is very talented. (I hadn´t expected that from someone married to a very mediocre actor as Tom Cruise but he must have other qualities...) Barbra Hershey is a revelation! What a tremendous actress, really everything she says rings true. Exceptional acting! She and Nicole should have been nominated for Oscars.   It´s a treat to see the 2 Shelleys in film these days. Misses Winters and Duvall bring life to the film....which CANNOT be said of the overhyped John Malcovich. Is he a sleepwalker? With his half closed eyes and droning voice he is supposed to be one of Americas greatest actors. I can´t see it. He was good in Being John Malcovich which is just the point  John Malcovich can only play John Malcovich!It is a good film to experience. Have patience with it. Not everything works, like the 90´s girls in the beginning (huh?, was it just to attract a young audience and make the subject matter timeless?) The special effects of seeing the 3 lovers evaporate was unnecessary. They could just have walked out of the frame, the meaning would be the same and the scene would have been spookier without the Star Trek effects. "}{"Title":"Shocking Rehash","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Is this film a shocker or what? Many may recall Stephen Frear's Dangerous Liaisons, which starred John Malkovich as the evil seducteur, the Viscomte de Valmont. And here he is again, not only playing the same role, but in exactly the same style. Only his name has changed. Sliding into the Glen Close role (Mertuil), though perhaps a little more vulnerable, is the manipulative Barbara Hershey, whilst Nicole Kidman plays the headstrong victim (different in personality to Pfeiffer's Madame de Tourvel, but the same circumstances really).The terrible thing is, this isn't even a good rehash. The narrative jumps all over the place, skipping the important and dwelling on the mundane, while most of the players behave completely inexplicably. You won't care for them anymore than you will Laura Jones' tale(adapted from the Henry James novel).I cannot figure out what Gillian Armstrong was trying to do here. One gets the inkling she may have been addressing the oppression of women in society. This is not a new discovery however, and Armstrong does not share anything profound with us in this area. I don't believe this was her focus though. Our dear Gillian was either embracing ideals and philosophies too sophisticated for my understanding, or she didn't have a clue what she was attempting to create.Such a shame to waste three solid performances, Wojiechj Kilar's sure music score, not to mention fine costumes and marvelous sets such as those created by Janet Patterson. Stuart Dryburgh was somewhat restricted in the use of his camera.Monday, April 6, 1998 - Hoyts Croydon "},{"Title":"disappointing mess!!","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember going to see this movie with a boyfriend back in 1997. I wanted to see this movie because I thought it would be romantic. I practically had to drag my boyfriend to see it with me, he laughed and slept thru most of it, while I tried desperately to understand the plot of the story. Nothing in this movie captured my interest!! I was so disappointed when I left the theater, I was tempted to ask for a refund!!!! I have even thought about renting the movie, if just to see if my understanding of the plot will become clear, but afraid it will only leave me feeling angry and unfulfilled. I can't give this film a good, not even a mediocre rating. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How can Henry James' novella Turn Of The Screw swallow me in whole while I find his other work wordy and arrogant?  And how can the same director that has made the two most boring movies I have ever seen, Two Friends and this one, also be the same person behind Sweetie and Holy Smoke - the two finest examples of a movie drawing real characters in real places I have ever seen? This film left me in a state of semi-paralysis.Being a fan of slow-paced, foreign, and period piece movies, I was pretty surprised at how much this movie bored me.  I'm writing this review to try to sort out my feelings of bewilderment.I think one problem is the use of John Malkovich.  We've seen him soar to great heights in the paradoxical Being John Malkovich and The Glass Menagerie, but here his monotone is overly droll and predictable, almost as if he is playing off himself in a Saturday Night Live sketch.  In fact the most enjoyable part of this movie was the scene where Mr. Malkovich twirls the umbrella in an ambiguously literal attempt to hypnotize Isabel.  If only there were more of these elements in the film....Then there's Nicole Kidman, whose underachieving attempts at acting has managed to ruin films by not one but two of the greats Ms. Campion and Stanley Kubrick.  Her delivery was similar to Gwyneth Paltrow's in Mr. Ripley -- obviously lost.  She's just another pretty face thrown into a role of substance after receiving excessive amounts of hype.  Watching them act gives me the same feeling I get watching the members of Milli Vanilli try to sing.  In their element, they can be undeniably sexy or cute, but in deeper roles the viewer is left completely clueless to their characters' motives.  Is Isabel supposed to be docile, alluring, witty, in-control, charismatic, or not-in-control?  We can't tell.In this mess, Barbara Hershey and Martin Donovan as the sickly cousin were both very good.  But alongside the weak link Kidman there was little they could do.  And Campion made some extremely unusual stylistic sidetracks, the very sidetracks that work in the Holy Smoke India scenes.  But in a period piece the fading dream suitors, inexplicable intro, and Chaplin filters seemed inappropriate,  although one has to admire her for trying.  Even when I don't agree with her methods I respect her sense of adventure (but let's face it, I'll love her forever because of Sweetie).  With a little more humility from Campion, a different Isabel, and a more invigorated Malkovich this film might have worked.For a good treatment of James, try to scare up a copy of the 1961 film The Innocents.  "},{"Title":"If you've read the book, don't see it. If you haven't, you'll probably love it!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Isabel Archer is a complex, beautiful character as Henry James created her. She is assertive and a dreamer, if slightly naive. She is slightly uncomfortable in the new setting of England, having just moved there from America after her parents died, and the last thing she would do in front of her uncle is cry! She would also never let Gilbert Osmond (Malcovich's character) know he had hurt her - she kept all this inside. There is a subtle way to show these internal psychodramas, but Jane Campion could not find it.I saw Portrait of a Lady after i read the book, so my experience was heavily coloured by that. The book is filled with sensitive characterisations and delicate psychodramas. One way of dramatising these internal conflicts is voice-over, instead the compromise here was to have Nicole Kidman cry at the drop of a chapeau. Just not at all in the Henry James tradition. "},{"Title":"Actual line  You don't loose your temper, you find it, and that must be beautiful","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If the Carry on Team made 'Carry On Florence' would people who wear Panama hats still watch it because it's in Florence? Well they may as well, as it would have about the same dinner party kudos as Jane Campion's 'The Portrait of a Lady', this film pins all of its hopes on appealing to the same crowd who have the directors cut of 'A room with a view', which incidentally should never sit next to this passionless nonsense on a DVD rack, it would be like putting a Chopin CD next to a Booty Gyals Rap attack CD.Anyway to cut to the chase for some reason we the audience just like the cast are supposed to be captivated and / or in some way enchanted by Isabel Archer(Played by Nicole Kidman) who if she were a Cocktail would be a glass of Luke warm tap water, admittedly she is unforgettable as she had an Austrailian accent throughout, and sported a full head of red Pubic hair. Nevertheless the film carries on regardless (ooops wasn't that a Carry on?) assuming (insisting) that you're sold on Ms Archer and her great invisible bag of charm.She teases three men who are all clamoring for her affection, all of whom may have had their own personalities and characters but you won't know as it didn't seem important to include such detail.Only when she gets to Florence does she finally meet someone who can match her invisible bag of charm, he comes in the very camp average form of Gilbert Osmond played by John Malkovich, he does however speak (again slightly camply) in a consistent whispering single tone, that similar to serial killers, this seems for the most part to be just what Mssss Archer had been missing whilst plagued by all of those Testosterone touting 'oh so predictable' men. He is completely ill equipt as a seducer both physically and mentally but then again Ms Archer has about the same kit, therefore the question is, does anyone care what happens to empty boring people, in an empty boring film?During a business trip a colleague of mine asked me to watch this, I said to her jokingly that it sounds like a Chick Flick and that I had already seen Fried Green Tomatoes (a good film), she insisted it wasn't.....Shelly Winters (Great actress) was in the opening credits.. need I say more... as De Niro would say 'Whatchagonnadoo?' A supporting character that shouldn't go unmentioned is Henrietta Stackpole played by Mary-Louise Parker, she is completely 1990... every time she was in a scene I couldn't help trying to spot her time machine, she even had that new contrived horrible spoiled nasal Californian accent, you know instead of saying 'never ever' they say 'Navaar Avaaaar'.I just hope no 'Ladies' try and watch this in the innocent hope it may trigger some wild passionate dreams about moody Barons fighting in moonlit Florence over their 'Porcelain beauty'.. because ladies you'll be disappointed, and if things are so bad you're not disappointed, and that this film does indeed tick your passion boxes ... then you need a divorce....or your Husband does. "},{"Title":"Most Delightful Music Score Ever!!romantik,dark,KILAR!!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I dislike film critics,most i would say,they pick movies apart,and just go on and on about this aspect and this actor..It contains beautiful landscapes mixed with beautiful colors and costumes that make this movie,one not to miss if your interested life period,the way each mind werks in all types of situation.Jane Campion's films focus in on letting the individual have longer time than usual for most audiences,her charecter's are studied there patterns there behavior,etc.I love this movie,its all about how love and deception,it doesnt even matter,when you have a score that is written so wonderfully,how could you not be able to follow the moods and feelings going on between the charecters. "},{"Title":"The most pretentious movie I ever saw...","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ...and I've seen a lot of German films. The camera work was over self-conscious. Several entire scenes were shot using only half of the actors faces in close-up, like a bad 80's music video. Nicole Kidman was badly directed. She must have been told to weep in every scene, because that's all she did. John Malkovich was badly contained from his own acting excesses. Barbara Hersey was commendable, but really was buried under more bad direction. There were lots of gratuitous costume shots, which as a seamstress I appreciated, but really did nothing to move the plot along. All the art of the book was totally lost in this movies attempt to capture it. Dismal. I contemplated walking out but kept hoping it would get better. It didn't.  "},{"Title":"difficult to watch, but a brilliant movie","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i had a really hard time watching this movie. one watches in slow motion as isabel archer willingly throws herself into the arms of the evil desmond. but jane campion pulls it off, and brilliantly. the pacing, camera angles, snippets of black and white films, the way she lingers on certain images, the switch between real and almost surreal scenes -- she really turns the period movie genre on its head. the acting is wonderful, especially nicole kidman as ms archer and barbara hershey as ms merle. i'll say it again -- this is a very difficult movie to watch -- i was squirming and was physically repulsed by many of the scenes between isabel and desmond -- but the film succeeds mightily in telling its unique story. watch it if you love period flicks and want to see a movie that really pushes the envelope. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and very touching","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jane Campion's adaptation of Henry James' novel is a very sensitive and excellent photographed film. I really was surprised about Nicole Kidman's performance. I never thought she could act like this. Please take notice of Wojciech Kilar's remarkable music! In the sequence where Isabel Archer has a phantasm of her three lovers who try to seduce her, the music reaches a mysterious level! There are only few masterpieces like this in 100 years of filmmaking. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Novel, A Mess of a Film","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Henry James's The Portrait of a Lady stands as one of the greatest psychodramas in literature, a precise and coolheaded dissection of the evolution of a privileged, idealistic if slightly arrogant young woman. This work exemplifies so many qualities which distinguish his view of human nature; he is compassionate, empathetic and observant yet unyielding in exposing the follies, bad judgement and darkness inherent is his characters. No one, especially Isabel Archer, is let off the hook for their misguided choices and her fate is tragic yet completely plausible and, as laid out by James, completely compelling.A lost opportunity is the best way to describe the film.  It is interestingly photographed, full of greys, blues and whites and suggests an almost funereal solemnity in its production design and cinematography.  And Nicole Kidman makes a perfect, iridescent Isabel Archer; she looks the part in every respect and certainly conveys the character's intelligence and poignant receptivity to the sights and people around her.Would that the film had served her better; Jane Campion and the scriptwriter, Laura Jones, eviscerate James's novel but retaining the basic story and structure but put it through the meatgrinder of 90s feminist revisionism.  It has been transmogrified into a simplistic tract of victimization and domestic violence, but in doing so Campion and Jones haven't managed to at least raise the story's entertainment value or even create a coherent narrative line for the audience to follow.  Rather than present Isabel as a poignant, charismatic figure who unwittingly corrupts her life through bad choices and misguided idealism, the writer and director show us a woman who is victimized by a big bad Man who keeps her locked up in the house, abuses her and steals her money upon duping her into an unhappy marriage.   In doing so, James's great work has been drained of its universality and dramatic impact. And while sexual exploitation and gender roles certainly play a part in sealing Isabel's fate in 19th century society, by ignoring the trenchant thematic notions of self determination and the risks of emotional idealism presented by James in his book, we are given a shallow, one-dimensional creation lacking in James's acid edge. Campion cheats a modern audience of discovering filmically a great and still-relevant work by a writer who dared to travel down the darker alleys of a more civilized age. "}{"Title":"Pictorial masterpiece based on a really good novel","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I must say this first Jane Campion is one of my absolute favorite directors and this is her most thoroughly worked-through piece of film yet and perhaps even her best film. (She has only had one failure and that was In the Cut, which instead was really bad.)Saying this it goes without saying that i am astonished over the low rating on this movie, here at IMDb; it just tells you in the end that you can never be sure on what other people feel.The Portrait of Lady, based on the brilliant 19C novel by Henry James, tells the story of a young orphaned woman, Isabelle Archer, who is taken under the wing by an aunt and later an uncle and a cousin, and brought to Europe. Being a woman fond of her own ways and her personal freedom, Isabelle guards her future very well; she declines a couple of favorable marriages in favour of her own independence. As she inherits money and becomes self sufficient, she travels through Europe and soon comes to realize that independence is quite a hard position to guard, and far more difficult to manage that in real life than just having the young persons idea of it. Her travels becomes a journey of maturity and struggle with herself.What James novel so brilliantly exhibits is the mechanics of a mind of a young person, even a person of any age; and James does this so balanced.Campions film in turn, takes on the essentials from the novel, drags it through a bit of Freud and end up with a version that transcends the barriers of time, up to our days. What Campion succeeds with is to modernize the novel; make it more accessible to a modern audience; and in the end, to portray what another costume piece did, Orlando; transcendence.She does so with a brilliant cast (amaze yourself over the actors involved above!!) with Nicole Kidman in the lead as Isabelle. Others, to mention a few is Martin Donovan as her cousin Ralph, Richard E Grant as Lord Warbuton (like cut from the from the novel!! Brilliant!!), John Malkoviich as Osmond, Barbara Hershey as Madame Merle and John Gielgod (also brilliant here; so downplayed). All actors are brilliant, mentioned or not.Although I really like Marin Donovan, who I think is a much neglected actor, it would have been interesting to see Malkovich as the consumptive cousin Ralph; the part was originally offered to him but got lost somewhere...).Campion also have the magnificent help of cinematographer Stuart Dryburgh, who makes it possible to to render the movie its pictorial qualities, and in the end its total art impression, instead of just a costume drama.Personally I like the Piano but it is reportedly to be only a prior sketch to this one.My recommendation is SEE IT, no matter what judgment has been passed on it on these pages. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This weekend I saw the movie for the second time. First time it didn't do much for me, but the second time I was stupified. What an intense movie, strong perfomances of the cast, especially Nicole Kidman and John Malkovich. Beuatiful locations etc etc. This is what a movie should be when you're looking for a dramatic romantic movie.  "},{"Title":"A blue movie with an enigmatic story","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I´d say this movie is blue. Everything in it makes it blue. I´ve read Henry James´s novel and I have to admit the movie is filled with fidelity. I also read a lot a criticisms over the ending of the film. The book ends the same way. Jane Campion´s direction, needless to say, is perfect. Nicole Kidman was really great as Isabel. She had the talent of transforming a free and happy woman into a cold and dark one. Barbra Hershey is evil as Madame Merle. But what I really like in this movie is its complete understanding about human relationships. There are not bad guys and good ones in the film. There are only human beings. Everyone has one parcel of guilty in the things that overpower their lives. Jane Campion and the actors really figured that out and made an excellent movie. That´s really an unforgettable journey. "},{"Title":"Henry James Has Nothing To Tell Us, But Barbara Hershey Does.","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nicole Kidman is a disaffected American, who doesn't know what she wants. At the end of the film, she still doesn't know what she wants, so what have we learned? To avoid Henry James. I was ready to yank this one out, when Barbara Hershey stepped in - wow, she made the film come to life - I had no idea she was this great, I mean really superb. She made the film worthwhile. "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE OF THE CENTURY!!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen this. I just say It has certainly been my pleasure getting to see this amazing movie. Jane Campion really did her best to bring us Isabel Archer's portrait. I'm not ashamed to say that The portrait of a lady by Henry James is the best movie I have ever seen. I know what I say. I have seen a bunch of movies, and I can really say that it's much better than those. It's beautiful visually, wonderful costuming, perfectly acted.The plot of the portrait of a lady is excellent and different from other drama movies. It's extremely interesting and highly recommended by me. The story is about a woman who rejects a most lucrative marriage proposal in favor of her hunger to experience the world. She wants to be free and marry the person she wants to. Isabel's defiant refusal stuns her suitors Lord Warburton (Richard Grant) and Caspar Goodwood (Viggo Mortesen) as well as the relatives who she is staying with in England. Nevertheless, her admiring cousin Ralph Touchett (Martin Donovan) secretly urges on her dying father to leave Isabel a great deal of his fortune. Isabel is very happy being rich, but this large inheritance makes her be deceived by her duplicitous friend Madame Serena Merle (perfectly played by Barbara Hershey) who leads her into an unfortunate marriage to an evil, devious dilettante, Gilbert Osmond (John Malcovich). Gilbert Osmond has a beautiful child named Pansy (played by the Italian actress Valentina Cervi). She is very obedient and apparently submissive. She is in love with Edward Rosier (Christian Bale); However Gilbert doesn't like him that much because he is not as rich as lord Warburton. He wants her to marry lord Warburton, even though he was Isabel's suitor. He just wants to become rich no matter how unscrupulous he has to be in order to ensure his success. Isabel's only comfort is Pansy. Isabel loves her, but she doesn't know many things about her parentage. It was a surprise for me to find out about Pansy's mother. It made it so interesting. Isabel suffers gravely for having married Osmond. But after the dark truth  behind Madame Merle and Osmond's deceits are revealed. Isabel awakens to an incredible freedom. In emerging from the darkness of her folly. Isabel discovers her one true love (her cousin Ralph Touchett) in an epiphany that sends her forth in hopeful triumph, stronger, and more selfless than she had ever imagined. At the ending It's beautifully filmed as she runs to be free in the snowy winter in England. Have a look at the landscapes and the snowy England. They are gorgeous. They made one of the best and different endings ever made.  It's truly one of the best sceneries I've ever seen in my whole life. This movie takes us to the grand European background (Rome, England, Florence/Italy) of splendid wealth and Old-World sensibilities. It must have won an academy award for best cinematography. Nicole Kidman was stunning to star as Isabel Archer. She really envelops herself into the role very well. I never ever thought she could act like this. She was perfect to play Isabel Archer. This is definitely her best performance. I thought she was going to get an academy award for best actress in a leading role in this movie, but she didn't. Anyway she must be an Oscar winner in 2002 for best actress either in Moulin Rouge or in the Others. I have seen those movies and I think they were pretty good; However, they weren't as stupendous as this one, Nicole Kidman showed us her great acting skills.Barbara Hershey is altogether outstanding. She gives an absolutely exemplary performance. She got an academy award nomination for best actress in a supporting role in this movie which was very well-deserved. She is amazing. She really made the movie as great as I thought it was going to be. She really knows how to act. What an excellent actress!! It must have been difficult to star as the complicated, enigmatic Madame Serena Merle; Nevertheless she really got it. I'll not forget when Madame Serena Merle regretted to have been so mean to Isabel. It's also unforgettable as she is outside the convent and it's raining hard, she gets totally damp as she's telling Isabel the truth about everything.The musical score by Wojciech Kilar is extraordinary. It is completely delightful  as Madame Serena Merle plays the piano. It's also remarkable as Isabel fantasizes sleeping with her three lovers, the music reaches an incredible mysterious level. Also listen to the fabulous music at the beginning and the ending. It's wonderful, just listen to it.I don't really like romantic movies at all. This is why I liked it so much. It wasn't romantic. The scene as Gilbert Osmond twirls Isabel's umbrella to hypnotize her, was interesting and outstanding as well as dark and terrifying. It was utterly dramatic. I haven't seen more beautiful woman than Isabel Archer (Nicole Kidman) in this movie. It's worth watching just for intellectual people who like drama movies. If you like drama and epoch movies. Watch it! You'll not regret it. Otherwise, Don't even try watching this, because you'll easily get very bored and it's highly unlikely you'll like it.  Overall, TWO THUMBS UP!! This is the best movie of the century. It has truly been the most brilliant adaptation ever made. Congratulations Laura Jones. After saying this I just can tell that the sad part is that it was very under-rated. Anyway What can I do?. 10/10    "},{"Title":"Failed in all","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Not everyone can be Merchant and Ivory, too bad this team didn't realize this. It took 2 tries to even get through it... I walked out of the theater on first viewing. Well the second wasn't much better. So much waisted talent, source material, set design. I do blame the director. This is an absolute mess! Even the characters are forgettable, the scenes far too long, the pace horrible slow. I'm trying to write enough lines to get this review in, but what is there to say, its just a bad film all the way around. a bad film a good story but a bad film. Don't waste your time. Seek another film of this period to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Why would anyone do this to Henry James?","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A dreadful version of the great novel. Shame on you Laura Jones. Shame on the director for depicting Isabel Archer (Nicole Kidman) as a rather plain, uninteresting young woman with a goofy hairdo. What can possibly attract all of those men who want to marry her? And the ending was completely unsatisfactory. A much better way of telling this story, since James' prose is so rich with internal motivations and feelings which cannot easily be revealed by dialogue or even by facial expressions, would be to have voice-over. This would have allowed for a much improved climax. There are only two commendable elements here. One is the cinematography and the other actor John Malkovich, who portrayed a superb Osmond. "},{"Title":"Supporting Cast saves this Film","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always enjoyed period pieces, good adaptations even more so. This film, however, is really only worth a 5 - an average film - if not for the strong performances of the supporting cast. The work of Barbara Hershey and Martin Donovan in particular is stellar, raising my rating to 6 on their merit alone.Aside from those two, this film is an exercise in 'almosts' and 'not quites'. It is almost engaging enough, yet just short of drawing me completely in. It not quite makes me believe Nicole Kidman's Isabel is worthy of the love of so many. The love shown by the suitors is believable enough (again, a well acted supporting cast), I simply do not quite believe the object of that love would elicit it.Still, the film is good. It is a pity, though. It could have been great. "},{"Title":"One of the best things of its kind","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have watched Portrait of a Lady and I am very impressed by it.  How I missed it in the first place I don't know.  Sometimes I am wary of adaptations, of historical costume dramas, and even of Jane Campion, whose The Piano I avoided when it first came out because too many people I didn't particularly trust kept telling me I must see it.  When I saw it finally, it was interesting.  I don't find either Holly Hunter or Harvey Keitel particularly attractive people to look at, but I still recognized that the director had energy and talent.No doubt about Barbara Hershey in Portrait.  She is excellent, full of strength and conviction in her performance in this movie. She alone among the cast has the maturity and sophistication to exhibit complexity and self-doubt.  The big questions are Nicole Kidman and John Malkovich.  Both are strong, but both have limitations.  Nicole is excellent in the opening sequences.  You can accept her as a beautiful, energetic young woman with formidable eagerness, readiness, independence.  What happens to her after her marriage to Osmond has gone sour is a little unclear.  You have to guess.  Did he waste all her money?  Apparently that is the case; however, I didn't get that from the movie but from things I read by critics thoroughly familiar with the Henry James novel, some of whom say you can't really follow the movie without knowing the novel, which apparently is 52 chapters long and has a great deal more about all the characters, particularly Isabel Archer, than the movie tells us.  If Isabel is now much less rich, that may explain Osmond's power over her.  Another explanation would be 19th-century mores, lack of autonomy in the very mentality of women in those days.  But this goes against the impression of James's novels in general and of Isabel in the movie.  It must then be a kind of hypnotism.  Osmond must hold Isabel subjugated through sheer perverse psychological will power, a kind of passive-aggressive domination that eventually becomes more aggressive.  I don't think Nicole Kidman is quite equal to the complexity of the role toward the end.  Her final scene with Ralph is overdone.  She ruins it by overacting.  If she didn't cry so much, the scene would be much more moving. Martin Donovan does hold back.  It's hard to find fault with his performance at any point.  He really makes Ralph Touchett interesting, someone you don't ever fully know, someone with hidden depth.As for Malkovich, he isn't as repulsive throughout as some seem to think.  I think they're reacting to the Malkovich we've seen in so many movies, playing essentially the same character over and over with variations of period, dress, economic status, and so forth.  My best memory of him is as the Vicomte de Valmont in Stephen Frears' Dangerous Liaisons  the 18th-century polish gives him a mask of elegant neutrality, and at the same time, he is meant to be a wicked, reptilian monster from the start.  As Osmond, he has to appear attractive to begin with---and he does, to a considerable degree.  But we still find it difficult to follow what Isabel would see in him. This is the movie's fault more than it is his.  We can certainly understand why Isabel would go to England and not be sure of returning to Florence.This is only to focus on the main characters, and there are eight or nine others to account for.  An interesting quality of Campion's movie is that we have to do some thinking---as one certainly does in reading Henry James---to understand these people. It's not always a fault that they're somewhat opaque---so are James's.  I don't share some critics' dissatisfaction with Shelley Winters, Mary-Louise Parker, or Shelley Duvall.  The American lack of polish they project seems just right for Henry James, who is so preoccupied with the contrast between Europeans and Americans.  Valentina Cervi is good, though one may find it hard to understand how two Americans would have an Italian child.  Viggo Mortensen is continually unsatisfactory and uninteresting; but he has been written as a completely boring character.  We begin to wince when he reappears, because he never changes and is always rejected.  John Gielgud of course is wonderful, and creates a thoroughly convincing character, though he appears only for a few minutes.  Christian Bale, not always a very interesting actor, has the good looks and the eagerness to be perfect as the frustrated lover, Rosier.  Memories of Withnail and I may tarnish the splendor of Richard E. Grant's Lord Warburton, but he's damned successful at giving off an aura of aristocratic restraint---terribly English. The casting is excellent, though it gets weaker as we move toward the top.Wonderful photography doesn't make up for huge gaps in adapting a complex novel to the screen, but superior cinematography can be an enormous compensation and that's what Stuart Dryburgh unfailingly provides. Whatever shortcomings there are in the visual area must be blamed not on the very gifted Dryburgh but on the director and editor's final cut.  It's true that the tilted camera in opening shots becomes obtrusive, but it wasn't a bad idea, just one that's been allowed to be a little overused.  Nor is the use of trees or figures or balustrades intervening in a long shot at all a bad idea.  It's good, because it loosens up the perfect period effect and makes it more realistic; but it's also been allowed to seem a little overdone.  The use of Schubert's Death and the Maiden is too repetitious.  The sweeping strings are sometimes excessive.  Nonetheless the overall effect of sound and image is one of compelling beauty.  (Ambient sound is often wonderfully authentic and charming.) We are drawn in and want to watch more and more.  How can we not want to look when every outdoor shot is like a gorgeous impressionist painting, and when the costumes and the colors in the interiors are so distinctive?Portrait of a Lady has flaws, but it's still one of the best things of its kind.  "},{"Title":"Captivating Film","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was aired on television in The Netherlands last week, and I cannot understand how I'd missed not seeing it before now.  I was instantly captivated by the atmosphere of the whole film.  Nicole Kidman was superb in her role as Isabel Archer (as she is in everything she does), although how on earth she could ever have fallen under the spell of someone as creepy as Gilbert Osmond is beyond me.  In this respect, I feel the depiction of Osmond's character was somewhat false, as any woman in her right mind would have run a mile from the advances of such a man. I think John Malkovich must have thought he was still on the set of Dangerous Liaisons.  Barbara Hershey, as Madame Serena Merle, was faultless, as only Ms Hershey could be. She has forever been one actress who has always stayed true to her profession and no matter what the quality of the film, has always managed to convince in any part she has ever played.   However, the actor in this film, who did it for me, was Martin Donovan as the ill-fated Ralph Touchett.  Whenever onscreen, he was mesmerizing and seemed about the only one who ever spoke any sense - albeit on deaf ears, as far as Isabel was concerned.  The scene at the end when Isabel goes to see him just before he dies, was heartbreaking to watch and had me in tears.All in all, I cannot praise this film enough.  As it is, I'm a sucker for period drama, which makes it all the more amazing that this little masterpiece slipped through my fingers for so many years without my seeing it.  "}{"Title":"Kidman sizzles in this haunting adaptation of a James classic!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jane Campion has adapted Henry James' classic 1881 novel The Portrait of a Lady in off-kilter style. The result is a pleasing if not entirely successful loosening up of the traditional costume drama. Her modern viewpoints spring naturally from the novel's themes, but sometimes the tricks she plays, though witty, are not essential. She gets beneath the skin of Isabel Archer's misguided quest for an intelligent life--literally, for the movie contains those Campionesque below-the-surface touches in which objects seem to sigh, the earth to move, the soul to thud in the lungs--in a way that points up that no living moment is mundane. The dialogue, the sense of time and place as the cultures of the Old and New Worlds collide in 19th-century Europe, the heroic charm of Isabel, the manipulative allure of Madame Merle who leads her astray All these are handled with imagination and ease, but not the storyline or the men who people its path.Nicole Kidman is a splendid Isabel, curving forth to shape her own destiny with an appealing mix of naivete and regality, and Barbara Hershey's bruised beauty imbues with rue her Merle's trickery. But the male roles are miscast. John Malkovich is too obvious a choice for the evil lounge lizard Gilbert Osmond, so his portrayal therefore lacks fascination. Richard E. Grant as Lord Warburton is without the dignity that would have made the proposal of marriage to Archer less easy to reject. Viggo Mortensen's dime-novel good looks oversimplify the threatening ardor of the insistent Caspar Goodwood. Martin Donovan, despite his many well-timed coughs, seems too vigorous as the consumptive Ralph Touchett. In consequence, following Isabel's feelings toward each and every lover becomes a very bumpy ride, while the overview that Campion espouses is also uncertain in judgment and tone. The costumes (wondrously flattering to Kidman's figure--or maybe it's vice versa) and production design by Janet Patterson have a cruel beauty. Mary-Louise Parker is amusing as the stridently modern Henrietta Stackpole, and Sir John Gielgud amazingly original in a cameo deathbed scene. "},{"Title":"A good reason not to hark back to a morally stifling era","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This may not be the movie of the Century but Jane Campion certainly captured the essence of Henry James. The almost oppressive Anglo-Saxon atmosphere of his novels and his ability to draw in-depth portraits of female characters.The movie depicts very well the entanglement of XIXth century women in Victorian society. Nicole Kidman is clever and curious yet shackled by convention and so dependent on men. Her dresses are stern and she misses the apparent freedom of her French Nemosis Madame Maire.Sure this movie was not imaginative, after all it is an adaptation of a famous novel, but Jane Campion should be praised for her talent in rendering both the epoch and the mentality. Yes, I think this portrait has been underrated. "},{"Title":"Give the movie a chance","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" PORTRAIT OF A LADY is a sincerely made exquisitely-shot exploration of a woman wrestling with the universal conflict between the freedom to choose and the resignation and acceptance of her lot. (Men share the dilemma too!).As such, Campion's modern opening is appropriate and thought-provoking, and the intensity of the performances from all the players (perhaps with the notable exception of Shelly Winters) gives it a complexity and power that clearly many writing here just don't get.Rarely will you see such powerful images and to-die-for settings. I suspect that the car-crash action movie fans who find this too slow walked into the wrong movie-theatre or rented the wrong DVD. This film is well worth seeing and the character John Malkovich plays, Gilbert Osmond, is very believable (contrary to what the Malkovich-haters have to tell us). Manipulative cruelty is at the heart of many a long-term relationship and, like DANGEROUS LIASIONS, is a game played by the ruthless and heartless on the vulnerable and weak. Again I refer to the car-chase sensation-seekers who expect their baddies to spring from comic books. Malkovich does not have to be anything other than cold and cruel, and many a woman has fallen for a 'bastard' only to realise that she has passed on better men.GIVE THIS FILM A CHANCE - and tell us if you liked it! (I am always staggered by the vitriol poured onto movies that have some merit. What is left for the films that are truly awful?) "},{"Title":"brilliance needs no labels","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... a bit of Champion offered in luxurious cinematography, rich costume & setting, stunning little pieces, paying attention to details, a couple of exotic time switch almost animations thrown in a la Fellini, (train, trip to Egypt, etc.) art should not try to mimic life, but comment on it, without losing us in abstraction or burdening us with ephemera ... a film is just that, a comment in film on film, however much it depends on a pre-existing text, acting should not try to convince us that actors are not acting, rather draw out the dramatic character and scene of the act ... champion is brilliant at this, even when she misses some marks, which she seldom does ... no matter, without comparing other Lady to other Champion films, a close reading of this Portrait revels a very theatrical production, brilliant as such, a superb cast of actors, not one weak portrayal, each characteristically a different archetype to dwell on as icon .... e'nuff ... have to get it on DVD "},{"Title":"beautifully crafted and well executed","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Portrait of a Lady is one of the most beautiful films I have seen in a while.  The acting is superb. The cinematography, well executed. The film, a stunning period piece from the book of the same title, is thoughtful and bittersweet, but full of hope.  This fabulous film from director Jane Campion is one of few that have made me weep with tears of mingled joy and sadness. Nicole Kidman gives an oscar-worthy performance, playing the independent, strong-minded Isabel Archer who becomes trapped in a stifling marriage, with admirers around her at every corner to remind her of her bad decision, while her personality slowly wilts and fades.  John Malcovitch plays her cruel and controlling husband, and is absolutely fascinating to watch as he subtly bends Isabel to his will. Viggo Mortensen, in one of his best performances, is in his element as the kind and loving admirerer of Isabel, Caspar Goodwood. Isabel's future lies in her own hands, if she has the courage to take a chance. Portrait of a Lady is a fascinating and riveting film, full of deep emotions that will move and touch you.  A wonderful film that is sublime in all ways possible.  "},{"Title":"Nicole, Nicole, we love you all ...","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1996, Nicole Kidman was only madame cruise, just that. Oh yes we remember her because of To Die For with Joaquin Phoenix and Matt Dillon. And was also possible that she played once with Michael Keaton in My Life. But 2001, a year full of surprises and tragedies (sadly). Mr. Tom Cruise said `I want to divorce, I am interested in Pénelope Cruz'. Well Mr. Cruise, Nicole Kidman is better than ever. She has become the greatest actress of this time and she plays in great films like The Others and Moulin Rouge. Let's forget Vanilla Sky. But something that we not may forget is this film The Portrait of a Lady based on a book written by Henry James and directed by Jane Campion (The director of `The Piano'). Although this film got mixed reviews, it is wonderful to watch.It is quite difficult to explain the story, but I'll try.We are around 1800, Isabel Archer (Nicole Kidman) lives with her uncle ,Mr.Touchett and his wife (Shelley Winters) in England. She comes from America. She also has a cousin, Ralph Touchett (Martin Donovan). She has a lot of admirers, one of them is played by Viggo Mortesen. But she always rejects them, then she meets Gilbert Osmond (John Malkovich), she also meets Serena (played by Barbara Hershey). Between Isabel and Gilbert there is strange relationship with passion, betrayal ... and then Gilbert's daughter causes problems.  (I don't think she causes problems, in fact Madame Merle was the one who got Nicole in trouble because of her lies)THE ACTORS.NICOLE KIDMAN Moulin Rouge, Cold Mountain, Dogville she is great, but I have seen a critic and he said she is everything except a gentle character and I am afraid that it is true. But it is her part so I say she is perfect.JOHN MALKOVICH Le Temps Rétrouvé, Napoléon, Being John Malkovich this is hid role, It couldn't have been better played than the way he did. A great person and a good actor as well.MARTIN DONOVAN He's not well known, but he has his remarkable performance, I think he is the best actor of the whole cast.BARBARA HERSHEY Dangerous Woman a good actress, she was nominated for an oscar, BUT she didn't get it. But 1996 was also a tough year for the oscars, it is difficult to choose among Lauren Bacall, Juliette Binoche and Barbara Hershey. Although Juliette won, it was a great surprise.JOHN GIELGUD The Elephant Man, Shine, Julius Caesar, Arthur he has a small part, but he was 92 when he played this part and he made 6 films that year. A great actor, who his known for his great Hamlet performances and it is very good that he appears in this film.SHELLEY WINTERS The Secret Diary of Anne Frank, Alfie also a small part, but also great to see. I loved it, I really did! When you want to see another great comment about his film, check the comment of Hernan Amado (hernan_amado@hotmail.com), he is the greatest lover of this movie, that I know of.Rating 8,5 /10 or *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"A brilliant adaptation","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie makes me bawl, every time I see it. Beautifully filmed, an exquisite rendering of one woman's gradual entrapment by the world of men and nineteenth-century social constraints. The drama unfolds slowly, but masterfully, building to one of the best endings I've ever seen.Nicole Kidman is excellent, and Martin Donovan is a god. "},{"Title":"Watch this again...","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw Jane Campion's Portrait of a Lady, I disliked her interpretation of one of my favorite books. The film is aesthetically pleasing, stylish, and has a good presence, but I couldn't get past, what I felt then, was a bad ending. Just recently I watched the film again. I had a completely different experience. Suddenly I saw what Campion was doing, and some of it was brilliant. Especially the end. I know many people like to see that the protagonist is safe and happy and it appears that Kidman's character is not. But she is. The last scene is a cinematic triumph if scrutinized by a thoughtful watcher. Nicole Kidman does a wonderful job under Campion, as does Martin Donovan (if you read the book, he is perfect for the character). This film deserves a second look. "},{"Title":"Pretty, but disappointing","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this to get a look at Viggo Mortensen in some of his other films. He was beautiful to look at, but probably miscast.  The whole movie stumped me.  The sets and costumes were sumptuous (I frankly found the sets more interesting to look at than the characters).  But this is more a character study than a plot-driven story; the characters should captivate us (or at least interest us) and allow us to come away with an understanding of them. This part failed, for me.  Nicole Kidman and John Malkovich seemed to be in a Stone-Faced Acting contest, with Malkovich's monotonous drone matched only by Nicole's insistence on using one solitary facial expression for every emotion she supposedly felt.  The woman only smiled once, near the end with ill cousin Ralph.  What on earth made all these men fall in love with her, and not only fall, but STAY, in Goodwood's case for YEARS?  I figured she would be independent and feisty, at least until she allowed herself to fall under Osmond's sway, but... she seemed cold and repressed from the very beginning.I tried very hard to understand this woman, and at times I could - but only drawing from personal experience, not through anything Kidman offered. And what's up with that ending??  Some people here seemed to get it, but I was left shaking my head, what, that's the last scene??  Oh well, I got to look at Viggo every once in awhile, so it wasn't a total loss. "},{"Title":"Terribly boring.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was maybe the most boring film I ever watched.It was dark, nothing seemed to happen, the characters were uninteresting so I did not care at all what happened to them.The worst part was Nicole Kidman who appeared so cold and uninspired in her countless close-ups that I really lost the wish to see her in any movie again.All in all a big flop that everybody who likes to have some plot in the movies he watches should avoid. "}{"Title":"Interesting and dark colors","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very interesting, Jane Campion does an excellent work, she always does her best, This movie is kind of scary because of the colors on this movie. The colors are dark, and the music in  this movie is great as Isabel Archer dreams of sleeping with her three lovers.  The sounds are scary and it makes the movie very interesting. Another interesting part of this movie is as Gilbert Osmond says to Isabel that he is absolutely in love with her. He seems to hypnotize her when he moves his umbrella in front of her. As she gets married to him, Isabel's life begins to destroy  and Osmond with her mean friend Madame Serena Merle (Barbara Hershey) will steal her heritage. This movie is not boring. I think this is very difficult to understand, the plot of the portrait of a lady is excellent and the performances are great as well. "},{"Title":"an under-appreciated Henry James adaptation","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Campion's fifth feature is an egregiously overlooked period adaptation of Henry James' popular eponymous novel published in 1881, as a much-awaited follow-up to her Oscar-winning feminist paragon THE PIANO (1993), and recruits a sublime cast including two acting legends Winters and Gielgud, who deign to limited roles in their twilight years, the disappointment is quite plausible, a common expectation overkill. Now, nearly two-decades later, it is time to give it a level- headed appraisal.Set in the Victorian era, a 23-year-old American maiden Isabel Archer (Kidman) arrives in England to stay with her prosperous uncle Mr. Touchett (Gielgud), and is admired by her cousin Ralph Touchett (Donovan), who is inflicted with consumption. Isabel brushes aside a marriage proposal from a British nobleman Lord Warburton (Grant), since it is just too conventional for her, but as a modern woman, she also rebuffs the persistent courtship of a fellow American Caspar Goodwood (Mortensen), whom she thinks unsuitable for her and more importantly, she takes marriage quite lightly. After receiving a munificent fortune bequeathed by her uncle, which verily is suggested by Ralph and occasioned the interest from Madame Serena Merle (Hershey), an American compatriot, who introduces her to an art collector Gilbert Osmond (Malkovich) in Florence, her nature of free-will will succumb to a horrid marriage in Rome and more startling truth will be revealed from Osmond and Serena, finally she escapes to England to visit Ralph on his deathbed, divulges her inner feelings for him, but the ambiguous ending leaves audience assuming that Isabel's future is still uncertain.The picture is a dialogue-driven rite-of-passage, where the young Isabel rebels against the accepted social protocol, but unfortunately becomes the victim of the malevolence emitting from those who harbour the ulterior motivations (Osmond is impatiently eager to marry off his daughter to the highest bidder, and Serena, whose motive is rather oblique at the start, but makes the perfect sense when a major twist is laid bare), meanwhile it profoundly inquires into the internal states of a beauty who owns everything (wealth, youth and independence), perpetually courted by the opposite sex, and swirled to lose her own footing in the process. This time Campion's feminist angle is less caustic but percolates understatedly through Isabel's trials and tribulations (from her dreamlike sexual arousal foursome, to the black-and white vintage footages of her journey under the hypnosis of Gilbert's deadly charm). Running around 2 and a half hours, with the winsome trappings such as graceful camera-work, majestic art production and an engrossing score, the film is Campion's most ambitious project to date, it is a crying shame to receive the cold shoulder.Kidman is brave enough to restrain from her usual detached elegance and flourishes in the inner- searching voyage where Isabel would eventually come clean to her own true feeling, however unfathomable it is, a very exacting performance for her. Malkovich is the archetype of being viciously seductive, pulls off a much more convincing job than his Vicomte de Valmont in Stephen Frears' DANGEROUS LIAISONS (1988), another period extravaganza. But the real show-stopper is Ms. Hershey, triumphantly oscillates between scheming and confessionary, even stirs up more pathos in her own subplot, it becomes her only Oscar-nominated performance so far. If one must find fault among the fine cast, I have to pick Martin Donovan, whose contemporary look and uninviting disposition fail to bring Ralph Touchett, the true soul-mate of Isabel but curbed by his illness, to the foreground, which really causes a markdown in the film's emotional culmination. Be that as it may, the film should have received a more enthusiastic reception, and especially for Jane Campion, she is a mainstay figure among contemporary female filmmakers and deserves more opportunities entrusted upon her talent. "},{"Title":"Stylish cool film","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very interesting film, there is for sure a hint of sexual repression in it, but I think that's true of all of the Director (Campion's) films. Given the script, Nicole Kidman has a standout performance, I just think that the director didn't get the absolute best out of her, with her character somewhat lacking in belief. Her character just doesn't seem as believable as she could. Perhaps this is because the Director didn't allow enough time for Kidman's character to evolve from an innocent to a cold corrupted woman.Its for this lack of character development I felt I couldn't give the film more than a 6. There is just something lacking - almost chopped out of the film. a simple 3 years later isn't good enough explanation for such a dramatic change in character. In addition I feel there is no formal ending to the story. The production and cinematography give this film a higher rating that it might of otherwise got.Not bad but could have been better. "},{"Title":"Chains that Bind","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We'd have a good time, if only we'd stop trying to be happy. - Edith Wharton Jane Campion directs The Portrait of a Lady, a film based on a Henry James novel of the same name. The plot? Nicole Kidman plays Isabel Archer, a young expatriate living in nineteenth century London. Though expected to be sensible and marry a wealthy man, Isabel opts instead to be free; she travels around the world, turning down various marriage proposals along the way.Eventually Isabel meets the devious Gilbert Osmond (John Malkovich), whom she freely chooses to marry. This backfires; Gilbert's simply using Isabel to get at her impressive financial assets. The film's final act finds Isabel attempting to fight for the independence of Gilbert's daughter. If Isabel cannot be free, then she will ensure that others can be.Anyone familiar with the proto-feminist novels of Edith Wharton, Jane Austen, Virginia Woolf etc will find very few surprises in The Portrait of a Lady. This is ultimately a by-the-numbers account of 19th century upper-middle-class social circles, a sexist and classist milieu which cinema often delves into. The film's themes of female independence are given a subversive twist &#x96; Isabel would have been happier had she not enslaved herself to vague notions of freedom, and had she succumbed instead to the very notions of romantic love which she cynically deems old-fashioned &#x96; but pale in comparison's to Campion's best films. Consider Campion's Bright Star, also set in the 19th century, and Holy Smoke, also about an adventurous expatriate, both of which handle this material in fresh and exciting ways.Unlike the vast majority of Campion's pictures, Portrait's screenplay wasn't written by its director. Because of this, Portrait lacks that distinct personal stamp which makes Campion's other films so special. Portrait's aesthetic is also routine, though Campion's able to conjure up a number of wonderful moments. The film's New Age prologue, in which Campion's camera captures the awakenings of 20th century women whose sexual revolution the film's 19th century characters will later be denied, is particularly wonderful. Several dream sequences and black-and-white interludes also hint at what Campion is capable of at her best. Nicole Kidman is excellent as the conflicted Isabel Archer.7.5/10 &#x96; See The Remains of the Day, The Story of Qiu Ju, Red Sorghum and Raise the Red Lantern. "},{"Title":"Money, true affections, Puritanism and deceit","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Campion transposed one of Henry James' best novels into a formidable masterpiece. She captured luminously the author's main themes money and love, Puritanism, innocence and survival.A gift of a fortune by an uncle to a young lady turns into a nightmare money doesn't buy happiness. She becomes the target of those who need the money for their own 'standing' and the survival of their offspring (daughter). Another main theme of Henry James is Puritanism the rejection of the 'physical' body. The innocent lady is captured through the discovery of physical contact, here, a tongue kiss. It overwhelms her completely and she gets entangled in a web of lies, hard plays of domination and subtle intrigues in order to keep her former admirers at bay. She stays blind for the 'real' world of true affections until she is confronted with naked and shattering facts. The performance of the cast (Nicole Kidman, John Malkovich, Barbara Hershey and others) is simply sublime. Rarely have difficult expressions in harsh and deeply pure or malignant emotional confrontations so intensely been interpreted. A must see. "},{"Title":"an excellent complete movie, a total artistic experience","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've repeatedly seen this movie, I simply can't help myself from watching this example of good taste that has the ideas, the feeling, the meanings and also the means of a work of art. This movie is simply adorable from the beginning to the end. The actors, the story, the costumes, the soundtrack, scenery, everything is beautiful and full of authenticity. The adaptation from the novel appropriately reveals the subtle, simple and total story about life and mistakes, not only about women, but an extension about choosing wrong and about chances of choosing again, of hoping. But hoping itself is a choice, we all have the choice of hoping or not. This category is called sublime in art I guess... "},{"Title":"Stuck in Mid=Pacific","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Henry James has never struck me as being the most cinematic of authors; his novels generally involve detailed explorations of the psychology of his characters and are marked by a highly elaborate prose style, characterised by lengthy, complex sentences and Latinate vocabulary. Yet a number of films have been based on his works, some of them very successful, dating back to The Lost Moment (based on The Aspern Papers) and The Heiress (based on Washington Square) in the late forties. The Merchant-Ivory team made three film adaptations of his novels, The Europeans, The Bostonians and The Golden Bowl. Like many of James's novels, The Portrait of a Lady is set among American expatriates in Europe. The central character, Isabel Archer, is a young American woman who becomes financially independent after she inherits a large amount of money from her English uncle Mr Touchett. While travelling on the Continent she meets another American expatriate, Gilbert Osmond, in Florence. The two marry, but the marriage is not a happy one, and Isabel comes to suspect that Osmond is a fortune-hunter whose only interest in her is financial. The film is made in the heritage cinema style, popular in the eighties and nineties, and is reminiscent of the work of Merchant-Ivory and of certain other films of the period, such as Martin Scorsese's The Age of Innocence and Terence Davies's The House of Mirth. Films in this style are generally set in the nineteenth or early twentieth century among the well-to-do classes, are generally based upon a literary source and are characterised by a detailed recreation of the look of the period and by an emphasis on dialogue and character development rather than physical action. Nicole Kidman's acting career got off to a promising start with films like Dead Calm and Flirting, but over the next ten years or so she seemed to get stuck in something of a rut, appearing in far too many dull or second-rate films like Far and Away, Batman Forever, Practical Magic and the dreadful Moulin Rouge. The Portrait of a Lady is considerably better than any of those films, but Kidman's performance is not her best, and her accent is not always reliable. It has become commonplace to describe American actors unsuccessfully attempting a British accent (or vice-versa) as being stuck in mid- Atlantic. Kidman's Aussie-tinged American accent is probably the first example of a major stat being linguistically stuck in mid-Pacific. John Malkovich is a lot better; like his Valmont in another period drama, Dangerous Liaisons his Osmond is the sort of character he excels at playing, able to combine an icy reptilian coldness with a certain smooth and plausible charm. There are also good contributions from Barbara Hershey as Osmond's friend and co-conspirator Madame Merle and from John Gielgud in a cameo as the elderly Touchett. (Gielgud was 92 at the time, and this was far from being his last film; he was to continue working up until his death in 2000 at the age of 96). Although Henry James was a dramatist as well as a novelist, and adapted several of his books for the stage, he considered The Portrait of a Lady to be unsuitable for dramatic presentation and dissuaded a friend who wanted to turn it into a play. That, however, did not dissuade Jane Campion from attempting to film the novel. Having recently watched the film for the first time since seeing it in the cinema in 1996, I can say that, in my view, James was probably right. It is, like many examples of heritage cinema, visually attractive, but it is also rather emotionally cold and too slow-moving. There is nothing much about it which remains in the mind for long afterwards. It does not really compare with the greatest heritage movies like The Age of Innocence, The House of Mirth or the best examples of Merchant-Ivory's work such as Howard's End. Or, for that matter, with Jane Campion's own earlier, more dramatic and passionate period drama, The Piano. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as I'd hoped compared with the wonderful earlier British TV series","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers throughout Most of the acting is fine. But I had a problem with the later Kidman scenes. Kidman needed less of the weeping and more anger or deviousness, to keep herself away from her vile husband as much as possible. Instead she is a typical victim, inviting his spite and weeping when he exerts it. She even lets the thug hit her.Clearly Isabel was heading for a fall right from the start of the story. She's quite convinced there's no point in marrying her decent suitor Goodwood, she wants as people often do to live it up for some years before marriage. Unfortunately, she isn't nearly as clever as she thinks she is and it's not long before she's met the devious Merle and has been hoodwinked into marriage with Merle's vile lover Osmond so that the pair of them can live on Isabel's money.Standard Henry James type of theme. American girls take people at face value but expect value for money. Europeans are devious and will say/do anything to get an American heiress's money as they are always had up but want to live the high life. Isabel is naive - totally fooled by Osmond's pretence to be an aesthete. Osmond is a self-satisfied, conceited, totally self-centred and selfish jerk who thinks he's a wonderful and admirable aesthete whom everyone should admire but we audience see through him right from the start. Even his long-time mistress and mother of the child Pansy, Merle, is deceived by him until he finally, at the end, tells her he never cared about her either and she realises she has wasted her life on him and suffered from having to hide the true identity of her child for nothing.Osmond's method is the well-known Whatever happens it's always your fault, I am perfect and blameless, I am a saint and you are selfish/thoughtless/stupid/venomous/a liar/hiding the truth/whatever along with the ruthless Victorian head of the family you do as I say nonsense that women had to put up with in that period. The jaw dropping thing is that Isabel becomes totally witless - seems to believe all this drivel from her vicious husband and begs his forgiveness every time. She becomes aware gradually that he is being unfair but hasn't the guts to tell him so to his face and then walk out - it would be difficult but perfectly possible for her to have fled with her American lover Goodwood who is at his wits end why it is she won't be with him even though clearly she has feelings for him.Osmond's daughter falls for the wrong man. Isabel tries to help Pansy, by helping to deter the suitor her father wants, but Osmond soon finds out, accuses his wife of being treacherous and sends his daughter to a convent to think about her errors and her future. Pansy proves to be like her father - treacherous. She tells Isabel dismissively, I have learned that I must always obey my father. So much for Isabel trying to help the girl to be with the man who loved her - Pansy is revealed as shallow like her parents. Isabel is a fool - she has allowed herself to be brainwashed by a jerk because she thought he was glamorous (though anyone less glamorous than this Osmond would be hard to find, I disliked him on sight, quite correctly). Isabel's kindly cousin Ralph has the sadly not unusual consumption, and now is dying and Isabel goes to him in England in spite of her husband refusing to believe Ralph was that ill, ie a means to again force his wife to his own bidding through trading on her loyalty. But Isabel is more loyal to Ralph and goes to him.Ralph dies. Goodwood is there and at last we think it is his time. Can Isabel is well away from her Florence-based husband. She can now go back to the USA with devoted Goodwood? In an outdoor scene, she finally makes clear she now loves Goodwood and kisses him, but then she runs away from him back into the house. The movie ends with her standing at the door of the house looking towards the camera. You can't tell for sure what she'll do next but there's a feeling of foreboding.Beats me why the movie didn't finish the story. Goodwood calls next day only to discover that Isabel has gone straight back to her husband. We are told her friend who has been Ralph's companion has taught Goodwood how to wait. How long, the reader wonders? Presumably until Osmond dies, but that man I would suspect will outlive everyone and Isabel will never leave him because if she did, she'd betray her own original conceit that she wanted to live an exciting and meaningful life. Basically, Isabel is a silly, self-destructive woman. She could never make any man happy. She needs, it seems, to be bullied. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric character drama...","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" New Zealand screenwriter and director Jane Campion's fourth feature film is an adaptation of a novel from 1881 written by American writer Henry James (1843-1916). The screenplay for this USA-England co-production which premiered at the 53rd Venice Film Festival in 1996, was written by Australian screenwriter Laura Jones. It tells the story about Isabel Archer, an independent woman from New York who after the death of her father visits her aunt Lydia and her wealthy uncle Daniel Tuchett at his estate near London. During her stay she socializes with an elder woman named Madame Serena Merle and some young men who one by one asks her for her hand in marriage. When Isabel's uncle dies, she inherits large parts of his estate and decides to travel the continent. In Florence she encounters an American expatriate named Gilbert Osmond who charms her with his knowledge and articulacy. Though having declined several proposals of marriage due to her ideals, Isabel agrees to marry Gilbert and starts a new life with him and his young daughter Pansy in Rome.This visually notable and dialog-driven period piece from the mid-1990s which draws ardent milieu depictions, is a detailed study of character about an 18th century feminist protagonist, driven by her personal choices, who seeks out and confronts her destiny while trying to maintain her integrity, but finds herself the victim of a deceitful and manipulative conspiracy. Jane Campion's second adaptation of previously written material is more of an in-depth and atmospheric character drama about a woman who is torn between her values and desires than a passionately romantic love story like The Piano (1993). Shot in England, USA, Turkey, Italy and Australia and acutely and distinctly directed by the brilliant filmmaker Jane Campion who has created several remarkable female character portraits since her feature film debut Sweetie (1989), this subtly narrated fictional tale is beautifully photographed by English-born New Zealand cinematographer Stuart Dryburgh. This lyrical epic which focuses on themes such as independence, freedom, love and betrayal, is distinguished by the prominent production and costume design by the director's frequent collaborator Janet Patterson and has a fine score by Polish composer Wojciech Kilar which reinforces the shifting atmosphere. Nicole Kidman, John Malkovich and Barbara Hershey delivers fine acting performances in this historical costume drama which gained, among other awards, the Pasinetti Award for Best Film at the 53rd Venice International Film Festival in 1996 and was nominated for Best Supporting Actress Barbara Hershey and Best Costume Design Janet Patterson at the 69th Academy Awards in 1997. "},{"Title":"A cold film, lacking the novel's passion","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is well-made, but there is a severity or coldness about it which is false to the temperament of the novel by Henry James on which it is based. Not so much in the portrayal of Gilbert Osmund by John Malkovich (although he brings to it his trademark air of sick malevolence, it seems excessive, not quite in key, even for the evil Gilbert Osmund), but very much so in the manner in which the heroine, Isabel Archer, is represented. In the novel she is a creature of passion; in the film, she is quite rightly adrift (true to the original) but altogether too much in the manner of an iceberg off the English coast rather than as an American jeune fille in sunny Italy. What passion she is given has a tortuous, fantastic character, represented by skewed hallucinations rather than by the robust erotic musings of innocent naiveté.Consequently, the movie ambles along, technically perfect but ultimately boring. Characters who appear to be bored and indifferent to their own lives not surprisingly fail to rouse in the audience any compensating interest. Ironically, it is given to the veteran actor John Gielgud (albeit perhaps unwittingly) to pronounce judgment upon this film in his character's dying scene as Isabel fixes upon him an intent gaze, rapt with the serious business of grasping to her bosom a pearl of wisdom from this aged man poised on the brink of his ultimate odyssey, Gielgud emits as his final word-to-the-wise an elaborate yawn. In this curious version of James's energetic novel even death is a bore. "}{"Title":"Darkly textured, darkly felt...and darkly photographed","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 23-year-old American in 1872 England, orphaned and now residing with wealthy relatives, is preyed upon by a fortune hunter who--despite coming up against a determinedly independent lass with a cynical overview of marriage--breaks down the girl's defenses and takes her as his wife; years later, their marriage on the rocks, the woman upsets her husband's plans by interfering in the love-life of her stepdaughter who is being unsuccessfully wooed by a Lord. Director Jane Campion opens this adaptation of Henry James' novel with a collage of modern women's faces, free and forthright and fulfilled, but then hands us a heroine who is duped, abused, and reduced easily to tears. This is not Nicole Kidman's fault, her performance as Isabel Archer is as good as can be expected. Campion fails to reveal any dimensions of this girl, and Isabel's circling conversations with men have a one-note, droning quality which matches Campion's chilly visual style colorless. Campion's artistic attributes certainly give select sequences a stunning, eerie romantic flavor, but she doesn't do much with the actors (some of whom, Mary Louise Parker and Shelley Duvall in particular, seem woefully out of place). Kidman is under-lit and posed like a porcelain doll (at one point, her grayish pallor perfectly matches that of a pillar just behind her); yet, while these shots are thoughtfully composed, they call attention to themselves in a negative way for an audience very likely to get fed up with such pretensions (especially in a film which is already methodically paced). Ironically, The Portrait of a Lady comes mostly to life when dealing with John Malkovich's cunning hubby; the actor has played roles similar to this in the past, but his relish in bringing out the dark side of this tale can clearly be felt. The picture is literate, but almost in an exasperating way; the tastefulness of it as 'art', and the tactfulness of Laura Jones' screenplay, nearly kills off our interest. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A decent period piece!","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nicole Kidman once again plays a woman with whom many are in love but very few understand. In this film she plays an American woman who travels to Europe to try and discover herself but soon finds out that there is more to life that it has been made out to be before her. She is careful to shun the affections of those she is not attracted to but not wise enough to check if that is where true love truly resides. It isn't until she marries a man named Gilbert Osmond (played by John Malkovich) that she begins to realise that she is nothing but an article in his life. By the time she begins to think for herself again, the time for true love has already passed her by. It's directed by Jane Campion so you can expect all that feminist intonation a plenty in this one. "},{"Title":"it cannot stand alone as comprehensive.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  so i've been reading recent commentaries on how much some of the people who have seen it had resulted in disliking it.if you had read the entire novel along with the ending notes and everything, there is also a brief synopsis on the novel-inspired film. in the version of the novel that i have, they had said that the film alone could not be labeled as completely successful because one would not be able to grasp the exact sensations and points that james managed to penetrate into the reader. it was however, supportive if one had read the novel and THEN saw the film since the novel had created such a picturesque effect to the mind, the film had a lot of the exact monuments and costumes which helped the reader make out a lot of things a bit clearer.personally speaking, i wasn't as satisfied with the casting choices on some of the male characters within the novel. gilbert osmond was not just evil, he was thoroughly handsome because of the way he handled himself. in the film, osmond was a little too soft and unclear, let alone the appearance wasn't a striking one and kept me wondering of why isabel would choose someone of that sort. and lord warburton should have been an (extremely) handsome yet gallant man, tall and completely perfect in appearance, manner and talk. but that wasn't entirely the case. he was instead (in the film), a man of unstriking facial hair and a kind of skinny erect figure. it wasn't anything gallant, he only came across as nice. i was looking forward to seeing something more of those two.either way, those were just two character mistakes. it was a good film overall.  "},{"Title":"This is the sort of film that you need to be interested in the character's decisions and actions...","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   I for one was. Though I have never read the Henry James novel on whichit is based, I never once found The Portrait of a Lady to be confusingor boring(though I can understand why some folks would find it so).Being mildly underwhelmed when I saw The Piano, it's rather surprisingto think that a restrained, moody period movie held my attention so muchbetter then that other, more widely praised film. Possibly it may bethat Nicole Kidman was in this film; and I find her to be a fascinating,wonderful actress(beautiful to boot). But she luckily is surrounded byan almost equally interesting cast, i.e Martin Donovan as theconsumptive, secretly loving cousin. In short, I would recommend givingthis film a try. "},{"Title":"A terrible bore","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a wealthy American heiress and her romantic pursuits of varying success in Europe.The Portrait of a Lady is immensely dull. The pace is slower than a snail, with many self indulgent artistic shots in between the already very slow plot. To make it even more boring, every character delivers their line in a flat and monotonous way. That may be the way how upper class speaks, but it is terribly dull and emotionless in a film. There is no emotional climax in the film either, everything is just plain and boring. Even the plethora of big stars can do nothing to save this film from being a bore. "},{"Title":"Pompous drivel","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A novel has a distinct advantage over a film. The novel can describe a character while the reader's imagination provides the substance of that description as individual as the reader him/herself. In film, however, the director (casting) must provide the description and substance and we, the audience, are robbed of the ability to assign face and form to that character. In Portrait..., Champion fills in our blanks for us with Boxcar Bertha and Olive Oil and that fat and vulgar lady from the Johnny Carson show, etc. In other words, Champion simply assembles a stellar cast, presupposes we have no association to these actors, and then assumes we'll devour what she has served up in spite of dreadful miscasting. After all, big names mean big boxoffice and one can always fall back on commercial success even if they fail in artistry.In Portrait..., a knock-off of a mediocre short novel, we're given a bunch of Americans speaking stilted dialogue with California accents or California by way of Sydney or whatever (with some exceptions). We see Kidman performing mechanically, as though uncomfortably marching to the director's crop, as she portrays a woman of with no charisma or personality and yet with numerous suitors who for whatever reason are in love with her. Champion goes on to insult us with a clip of black and white film, circa Charlie Chaplin which comes out of no where, etc...etc...etc.The only thing Portrait... has going for it is wonderful costuming, cinematography, and locations. Better period films are not hard to find...period.  "},{"Title":"One of the Biggest Cinematic WTFs I've Ever Experienced","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" No one can accuse Jane Campion of lack of ambition in bringing Henry James' novel to the screen, but her film is a total disaster.The audacious style that made The Piano so compelling and memorable is a Frankenstein's monster here, and it runs away with Campion's film. The result is incomprehensible. Actors are stranded walking around opulent sets saying lines, while Campion pulls out every trick in the book to confounding effect.Though the fact that the film is incoherent probably means that it's a good adaptation, since it was after all based on a novel by Henry James....Grade F "},{"Title":"Tap, Tap, Tap","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Much emphasis here on the tapping of shoes on paving stones as people hurry from one sadness to another, each one in turn deeper than the last. All in all a pleasant enough film slightly spoiled by the use of the old cinema reel-style interlude for the main character's adventures during 1873. This is 1873 after all - before the invention of cinema - and there is no reason given to believe we are living beyond this period i.e. in someone else's remembrances. Much strain and inaudible mumbling but eventually a satisfying glimpse into the pressures of a lady (with money) in the nineteenth century. "},{"Title":"Portait of a Lady","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this to be one of the BEST films I've ever been privileged to watch. Nicole Kidman is 'superb' in this film, as is John Malcovich, Barbara Hershey & Viggo Mortensen (others too, but these stand out). As I was watching the film, I couldn't help but think that Malcovich played the part of a Narcissist. I read the review and didn't see this mentioned, but I am wondering if others have also felt the same about the part he plays. I myself have experience being married (now separated) from a Narcissist....I recognize Kidman being treat as an 'object' not a human being with feelings & needs of her own. He was very cruel to her. This film is has amazing brilliance, and shows truly how a woman can fall prey to a manipulative, selfish man, and what it takes to get out from under one. Very deep!! "},{"Title":"She is back to her husband out of self-hatred!","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After Isabel knew that Pansy is Serena's daughter, she was shocked at the very beginning and scared consequently 'cause she finally came to understand that she was used by her merciless husband and his lover. After this brief encounter with Serena, she realized that her cousin deeply fell for her since the very beginning,he did all he could to make her lead a happy and rich life but to propose to her himself, which is partly due to his consideration( he didn't want to widow her since he knew that he couldn't live long due to his consumption), and also might because that he was unconfident ( his wealthy friend Lord Warburton was refused when he proposed to Isabel, he might believe that he is out of the question too).Anyway, Isabel realized the real love she held is to her cousin- Ralph, but all is too late. She was angry with herself, she was angry with her fate, in other words, she hates herself so much that she wants to torture herself as sort of revenge.. But one thing is clear that she has changed again after the visit of England, after the dying of Ralph, after knowing that her husband is merely using her for her money, she wouldn't make his life easy as before, she might want to revenge him by returning to him. One thing is clear, she is becoming stronger and more cruel, maybe no less cruel than her husband. She is like this because she lost the only one who loves her and whom she loves. Isabel is dead. "}{"Title":"Boring","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I rented this movie was because my two favorite actors are on it Viggo Mortensen and Christian Bale but it wasn't worth it. They hardly came out in the picture. The whole look to the picture was drab and I really did not like the heroine she was to annoying at best. It seem to me that the character never made up her mind and that she was afraid of something. It was overly long and it spend periods on long winded conversations that needed to be cut, I almost felt asleep more than once. I would not recommend it. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but terrible ending.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Excellent acting performances, nice cinematography and all that, but there was no ending. I'm sorry, there just wasn't. No plot, no climax, no ending. I think I wasted about 2 hours 20 minutes watching a story unfold that had another half hour to go at least. What were the people who made this movie thinking? The acting was good, of course, all were true professionals in every sense of the word. However I cannot recommend this movie unless you are really, really just into period pieces for the scenery. The story was probably good in a book, but was nonsensical in this film. "},{"Title":"Good, not great","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently watched both The Portrait of a Lady and The Wings of the Dove in short succession.  My quick advice to somebody wishing to see a film version of a Henry James novel is to see the latter.  Having seen both, I am struck by the similarities of themes in the films  both have wide-eyed rich American women taken in by the scheming of dastardly European partners.  But where the British pair Wings are sympathetic, their counterparts in Portrait are not, unless one enjoys reveling in the pure evil that John Malkovich can channel.  The directing is uneven  Campion brings in a few cheap tricks like a mini-movie in the movie, and by the end of the movie one feels a compulsion to scream, All right, I get it, the movie's getting darker - she's not happy, enough already!  But the acting is very good  Malkovich is superb, Kidman is excellent in the title role, and the supporting cast is large and strong.  Especially noteworthy is Martin Donovan as the consumptive cousin who secretly is in love with Kidman's Isabel.  I would give this movie a moderate recommendation.  Fans of Malkovich and Kidman should not miss it, but, again, fans of James probably should see The Wings of the Dove first. "},{"Title":"Gray and sombre","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was not surprised to see that the movie was dark and obscure. After all, I had seen The Piano. But I expected a more enlightened ending. And, you can feel sympathy for Isabel, but unlike The Piano, this movie doesn't seem to have a heart; a starlike light that shines beneath the doleful surface. No, I don't think I will be adding this one to my collection. "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I generally admire period pieces. This was an exception. I have to say the cinematography was beautiful and I would give it a point for that but the story did not flow . I had no attachment to any character and no interest for that matter. I had never fallen asleep during a movie , believe it or not, but there is a first for everything as I slept through chapters 10 - 14. I even tried to watch it twice.  "},{"Title":"Snoozeville...","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sorry but I really disliked this movie, it put me in a really awful mood for most of the night. I'm sure it has plenty of good points and good reviews but the fact that it's rated 5.9 out of 10 really says it. IMO it should be lower. The movie bored me all the way to kingdom come, and never in my life have I been so bored. And what's with that PG rating? Nudity is nudity and sexual implications were indeed very sexual that I don't think a PG rating will suffice. M at the very least. R is too extreme. M at least? I hope that I never have to see a movie like this ever, it's very depressing and so transfers the cycle of depressants to the audience. A waste of my 2 hours.  "},{"Title":"Too long, too dark, too boring, too much!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *SPOILERS*This was just not what I needed. The most depressive film I might ever have seen. Not one single person has a moment of real joy in this film. Everyone is  miserable, even those, like Malkovich, who enjoys making the life's of other miserable. There is no consolation to find anywhere, and the end only leaves me thinking  about who of the characters are going to commit suicide. There are at least five that I can think of. It's dark and depressing all the way, and strange jumps takes us  around in the Lady's life. Take for example this Kidman gets a child, who dies within a year, however, this happens while the film jumps three year ahead, that is from a year  before to a year after the birth/death. Hey! If this is a portrait of a life, this must have been one of the most important and devastating experience, and therefore very  important to tell about. But no...I'm sure this film is true to the book, but the movie is nothing like the fine Piano of the same director. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"All in all one of the worst movies I've ever seen.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't even put into words how boring this movie is.  I'll admit that I am not your typical viewer of this type of film, but I have to say that this movie was HORRIBLE.  Even Nicole Kidman couldn't save this horrid trash.I was forced to see this movie when my college American lit class read the novel.  I didn't know what to expect (since I had not read the book yet).  The film I saw made me almost suicidal at the thought of having to read the 600 page novel in the coming week.  The acting seemed completely stoic (lack of a better word).  Nicole Kidman is one of the most talented actresses on the planet, but even she could not save this movie.  I'd rather see her in To Die For any day! "}]