[{"Title":"A great layering of memorable characters","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"79 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It took a second viewing of Mike Leigh's 'Secrets and Lies' to reveal the depth of its genius.  I love character-driven drama, and this film succeeds in creating indelible portraits. Even the social worker is quirky and memorable instead of just furthering the plot and being patently sympathetic.I could write quite a lot about Blethyn's riveting performance. How drained she must have been after sustaining a character who seems always at the height of emotional pressure.  Opposite her, Jean-Baptiste seemed as cool and smooth as could be. The contrasts created by these personae even extended to costume and decor.I decided to watch this movie again because after a BBC Shakespeare binge I wanted to see everything Ron Cook has been in.  And while the Stuart scene is really somewhat incongruous to the rest of the family plot, Cook's scene as the bitter, drunk 't****r' works for me perfectly.  So do the scenes of photo sessions -- and it's a matter of observing this film in terms of clarity of personal vision.  The occupations of photographer and optometrist seem to lend metaphors of spirituality -- for Maurice, the ability to see people as they are, and for Hortense, the ability to understand how others see the world. The wall of smoke that Cynthia and Roxanne seem to keep in front of them.  The disparity between the images created for the formal portraits and the truth of the personalities in them.  In a distinctly un-sappy way, Leigh has explored the old adage that the truth will set you free.If one reads a paragraph describing the main plot -- the adopted child seeking out her birth mother -- a very clear idea of a movie-of-the-week story comes to mind. 'Secrets and Lies' is nothing like that, and shows a mastery of vision and a cast of great talent.  My roommate agreed, saying he thought this was one of the best films he's seen this decade.  "},{"Title":"Honesty & Integrity","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"58 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my very favorite movies of the last 10, even 20 years.  For me, its greatness lies in the resonance of the story lines, the brilliant acting, (Brenda Blethyn, Marianne Jean-Baptiste and Timothy Spall all turned in Oscar-worthy turns, and the rest of the ensemble were all with them), and Mike Leigh's direction.This is a feast of tremendous acting, by a most talented ensemble who really become their characters.  The scenes play out very naturally, and you really feel a part of the story, with special empathy towards - in no particular order - Cynthia, Maurice and Hortense.  As the film builds towards a showdown/climax at the birthday party, you can even take a step back and at least sympathize with Roxanne and even, Monica.  This rates 10/10 by this reviewer, who wishes that more directors - if they truly have a good story to tell - will shoot and edit the film in a way that appreciates the audience's intelligence and capacity to feel without being manipulated by a director's avant-garde(??) bag of tricks ...for comparison, perhaps see my scathing review of 21 Grams! What a contrast of styles!!! "},{"Title":"Winning performances","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"52 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a lovely, small film with beautiful performances by Brenda Blethyn and Marianne Jean-Baptiste. It is filled with comical moments that balance out some of the heavier parts of the film. My heart went out to the two lead characters as they struggled to make sense of the mutual bond unearthed by Ms. Jean-Baptiste's character. At once confused, hurt, shocked and afraid, Ms. Blethyn is completely convincing in her role. I was moved by her decision to enter into a relationship with this woman whom she had never before met. Perhaps the fact that Ms. Blethyn and Ms. Jean-Baptiste had never been introduced prior to the scene in which their two characters meet added to the realism of that moment. And Ms. Jean-Baptiste's portrayal of a woman who is surprised by her discovery and not a little disappointed was dead-on, as is her dogged determination to get what she came after. If you are searching for a movie brimming with action, special effects, and/or blockbuster stars you need to pass this over. But if you are in the mood for a film that offers winning performances and an entertaining storyline that grows out of human interaction, this is the one you're looking for! Secrets & Lies is a gem of a movie! "},{"Title":"So Brilliant","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"44 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I wish the USA had a director like Mike Leigh. His movies are amazing. Secrets & Lies traces the pain we often hold inside along with our secrets and the catharsis that can come by revealing them. Lives of quiet desperation within a family gradually find healing in this movie about adoption, children and the walls we build around ourselves for protection. There is a poignant metaphor in the brother Morris' career as a photographer, as his subjects attempt to cover the stories in their faces long enough to smile for the camera. This is an intense movie but it is not without beauty and hope. "},{"Title":"superb comedy/drama","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike Leigh's superb comedy-drama of family relationships. Heart-rending, bitter and delightful by turn Leigh's modern classic captured a brace of Oscar nominations but went home empty handed in the face of The English Patient's near clean sweep. Even Blethyn's Cannes-winning performance lost out to Frances McDormand's Fargo turn (hard to challenge this decision, although in any other year the brilliant Blethyn would have deserved to win). The film eventually racked up a considerable number of awards, its Oscar success aside.The story, every bit as believable and real as the rest of Leigh's work, centres on a woman, Cynthia Purley (Blethyn ), whose mid-life crisis is further exacerbated by the appearance on the scene of the daughter she gave away at birth, the wonderfully named Hortense Cumberbatch (Baptiste) - a young, beautiful, professional black woman who causes a few eyebrows to be raised in the family, and forces Cynthia to come to terms with her past.Alternating between high comedy, scathing one-liners (Blethyn telling daughter Rushbrook she has a face like a slapped arse is a moment to treasure) and tear-jerking poignancy, with Spall, Rushbrook and Baptiste all offering strong support, this is nothing short of superb.Verdict A genuine hit for Mike Leigh, Secrets And Lies has the coarse grain of real life, sympathetically and affirmingly fashioned.   "},{"Title":"One Excellent Film...But Is There Another Secret?","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here is a question which has dogged me each time I watch this film - and I have seen it over 40 times Two times during the film, Cynthia Purley (Brenda Blethyn) discusses the circumstances under which her daughter, Hortense Cumberbatch (Marianne Jean-Baptiste) was born - but when Hortense asks who her father is, Cynthia cannot say.In the restaurant, when Cynthia realizes that she, a white woman, is indeed the mother of this black daughter, she has a moment where she hints at the true circumstances of Hortense's birth. We realize that Hortense's father is black...but is there another secret? After all, at the birthday party for Cynthia's other daughter Roxanne (Claire Rushbrook), Cynthia tells Roxanne that her father's name was Bingham - that he was an American medical student that she met on holiday while she was at Benidorm. So, she can tell people who Roxanne's true father was. But when Hortense asks if her father was a nice man, Cynthia can't say - or won't.The question to be asked here, which no one breaches, is Was Hortense the product of rape? Was the 15 year old Cynthia Purley raped by a black man in 1968 in London? And did she then keep the child, only to give it up for adoption? Why doesn't anyone ask this? Why does Cynthia let Roxanne know who her father is, but not Hortense? Now, was this done on purpose by the director and/or the screenwriter? After all, it would be simple enough to see the name of the child, Elizabeth Rose Purley, on the birth certificate that Hortense gets a copy of. If it is blank, this would prove that Cynthia did not know who the father was - pointing the way to rape.But the question is not asked, and the answer not given.Can we speculate? Can we broach the subject that a black man raped a white girl and yet she did not abort the child and instead gave it life and then gave it away? This is an absolutely fantastic film. From Brenda Blethyn to Marianne Jean-Baptiste (now on CSINew York without her British accent) to Timothy Spall, this film is filled with Oscar worthy performances. Why this was passed over for the (dull and boring) The English Patient is beyond me.I would recommend this film without doubt. It is one of the finest pieces of film-making and acting I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Top 5 Film Class Movies FILM #5","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"29 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In honor of my film class wrapping up this week, I will be counting down my top five favorite films we have watched for class. I begin with my #5 choice, Secrets and Lies, a Mike Leigh drama/comedy about the secrets and lies (shock) that tear apart a dysfunctional British family. Brenda Blethyn plays Cynthia Purley, the very dramatic and always crying single mother who is one day contacted by the daughter she gave up for adoption&#133;who happens to be black. The look on Blethyn's face is priceless as she flashes back to a one night stand she had as a young lady.Most would think Leigh's story would revolve around race relations, which is not the case at all (race is never an issue). Instead he revolves his story around the Purley family, a unit so torn apart from over the years that a simple family cook out turns into a soap opera. Secrets and lies! We're all in pain! Why can't we share our pain? I've spent my entire life trying to make people happy, and the three people I love the most in the world hate each other's guts, and I'm in the middle! I can't take it anymore! This memorable quote comes from Maurice Purley, brother to Cynthia and talented photographer. Maurice is your classic good guy, the passive patriarch who always tries to hold the family together. (The irony around his character is that he cannot conceive a child with his wife, Monica). You almost feel sorry for the successful Hortense, as if she would be better off not knowing her birth mother at all.The actors are so talented in this film that Leigh, at times, uses no cuts during a scene. The camera stays in one spot as the actors' play out scenes that can last 10-15 minutes. After you get past the difficult British dialect (you may want to use captions while watching), you will feel as if you are that nosey neighbor who can't help but listen and enjoy the problems this family confronts&#133;and that's no lie. "},{"Title":"3-bucket tearjerker of hiding one's pain in plain sight","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With modern films placing so much emphasis on visuals and sound & the stage specializing in avant-garde drama or comedy, it's rare to find old-fashioned storytelling outside of books. But it's rare at any time or in any medium to find a work combining such smartness & sensitivity as Secrets & Lies. After the deaths of her adoptive parents, urbane young London optometrist Hortense (Jean-Baptiste) searches for her biological origins and locates her mother alcoholic, neurotic, once-promiscuous factory worker Cynthia (Blethyn, in one of the finest film performances of all time). Each is stunned to find something about the other that neither knew that the mother is white and the daughter is black! The film has sideplots rather than subplots, two other stories developed in depth, parallel to the main story, although Leigh masterfully uses them to support rather than weaken the central relationship between Cynthia & Hortense. Cynthia's daughter Roxanne (Rushbrook) is coming of age and exploring love, work and independence while struggling between the love, pity, resentment & disgust she holds for her mother. Cynthia's brother Maurice (Spall, a roly-poly, English Jimmy Stewart), a prosperous but overworked studio photographer, gives the family name a facade of middle-class respectability even as he & his wife Monica (Logan) carefully conceal an embarrassment of their own. Through a variety of small, seemingly random but fascinating illustrations like the Canterbury Tales, the film hammers home its theme that lying & deception become not just easy but casual in an age that emphasizes individualism & responsibility, where you assume that no one, not even the closest of your relatives, wants to hear about your problems. Rather than help one another, each suffers alone, while every lie they so readily spin must constantly be fed with more deception. A story that could have been both preachy & crushingly depressing is cut with just the right amount of humor in all the right places, until the heartbreaking climax that is as powerful as any ever filmed. There isn't an air of judgment or lecturing morality, no attempt to make a sweeping commentary of society. If any such message is delivered it must be derived from the story. In a superb cast Blethyn stands out as the haunted, tormented Cynthia, hurt & angered by the contempt & pity she sees in the eyes of her brother, sister-in-law & daughter as she staves off nervous breakdown with the bottle. Yet she can't bring herself to turn away again from the child she gave up long ago, even though only she knows how much pain lies ahead if she doesn't. Jean-Baptiste provides a stark contrast as the cool-headed but intense young woman who might be repulsed by the coarse, painful world in which Cynthia lives, yet never shows any reluctance to enter it. There's a spareness about the film (so many scenes go without music that you're often surprised to remember that there IS a music score) that engrosses the viewer, making him concentrate, rather than giving an air of cheapness. It's not Shakespeare or Greek theater, since no one gets stabbed or finds out he's married his mother, but Tennessee Williams or Anton Chekhov would have been envious of this effort. "},{"Title":"Magic","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The way Leigh weaves a story here - no screenplay, just tell the actors what the scenes are supposed to do, give them an outline, but don't give away the punch line or the ending - shows up in the final print. This is cinematic magic, with Blethyn turning in one of the most breathtaking performances ever seen on the silver screen. The transformation into Cynthia Purley is total. Study especially the scene in the cafe in Holborn - story has it these two principals had not met before shooting this scene, and the scene goes on forever, and puts incredible demands on both actors, especially Blethyn, who is simply unreal in her abilities. All do a great job here. This is not a light comedy. It will tear at you, thanks in part to the evocative music, but at the end you will go 'wow' and feel good for having seen it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, character-driven movie- Mike Leigh's genius strikes again!","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie four times now and waited before writing a review, waited to see if my first spell-bound viewing could be matched by the others that would follow. And an overwhelming yes is the answer.It actually gets deeper with each viewing even with knowing that the cast were given the outline of the characters and told to develop their own dialogue. In fact Brenda Blethyn, who plays Cynthia, the mother, was not even aware that Hortense, played by Marianne Jean-Baptiste, was black until she meets her for the first time in a crucial scene.Timothy Spall, playing Maurice, the brother/uncle is incredible, what he can portray just with his eyes is breathtaking.I love the layering of the story, the characterizations so unexpected. Such as the child abandoned at birth and put out for adoption being the most centred and focused of everyone. The drunken ex-owner of the business that Maurice bought bringing Maurice to a place of awareness that it could be him wandering around drunkenly, speaking of his past achievements.The flashes of mini-plots portrayed by the subjects of Maurice's photographic settings. The heart-breaking scene where Maurice's snobby wife reveals her secrets. The slowly developing warmth and comfort between Cynthia and Hortense.And on.This is a fabulous movie, worth seeing over and over to get it all. And even then. The secret of Hortense's father is never revealed, just an unknown marked on the birth certificate, which leaves us to ponder on the fact she was probably raped at fifteen. She states she deliberately never saw the baby that was the result.You can literally feel her growing joy in Hortense and how beautiful a person she is. One scene earlier on has Cynthia telling Hortense how more like her she is than her other (white) daughter. Remarkable. 9 out of 10.Would that we had a Mike Leigh at this side of the world to bring us such treasures!! "}{"Title":"A wonderful motion picture.","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very well done and a motion picture worth seeing.  Perhaps the plot takes a little time to develop, but the end is full of surprises.  There is humor, pathos, and the usual jump to conclusions on the part of the characters depicted.  Nevertheless, it is a great motion picture. "},{"Title":"Re. those awful accents  shut up and put up !","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm flabbergasted to read comments from the US complaining about the awful accents in Secret and lies. Hey, people, you're 'merkans, and this language is supposed to be you mothertongue, it ain't mine, and I can nevertheless cope, so what ?? Has Hollywood's cliché-ed accents eroded your capacity to understand other ones that just happen to be real in the UK ? How d'you think Brits, Aussies and Kiwis cope with 'merkan accents then ? Yet US films are the same problem to them ! Come off it, panning a movie just because one is too lazy to make a little effort in concentration ia a wee tad unfair ! Secret & Lies is an excellent movie, great acting, and well, Timothy Spall and Brenda Blethyn are good in there because they sound real, because ther accents may not be that smooth to some ears, but they do add credibility to their characters.BTW, a good few Brit movies on DVD happen to have english subtitles for the hard of hearing, the feature could be a help into getting used to those weird accents 60 million people across the Pond happen to have...  "},{"Title":"Brenda Blethyn deserved the Oscar","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am watching this film for the 4th time.  Each time, I am amazed at Ms. Blethyn's (and all of the actors') performance and the brilliant script and direction.  Ms. Blethyn's scene during the first phone call from Hortense should have been enough to earn her the Oscar right then and there.  Ms. Blethyn continues to show her tremendous talent and range since Secrets.  How Frances McDormand won the Oscar by walking around in the snow and saying Yah I will never understand.  Has anyone seen anything McDormand's done since then?   "},{"Title":"'One of the families favourite films'","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Secrets and lies' is one of the families favourite films. A real-life drama full of interest, lightened with splashes of comedy, and has an almost 'documentary' feel thanks to a great cast.I can feel for every character in the movie, even the boozy previous owner of the photography studio.If I had made a movie, I would like it to have been 'Secrets and Lies'.  "},{"Title":"Quietly powerful","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've only seen a few Mike Leigh films.  FOUR DAYS IN JULY(I think that was the title) was a film I would have liked except back when I saw it, I wasn't able to handle thick accents, so I couldn't understand it.  LIFE IS SWEET and CAREER GIRLS are slight but highly enjoyable.  NAKED features a terrific performance by David Thewlis but has a surprisingly misogynist streak in it.  But the best of all of them is SECRETS AND LIES.  Like his other films, it's entirely improvised by the actors from an outline Leigh writes, but unlike some of those types of movies, you're never left saying, Okay, cut already!  You're too engrossed by the story, the emotions it brings up, and the performances.  Particularly those of Blethyn, Jean-Baptiste(especially her first scene in the adoption agency), and Spall.  I could identify with all of them, and was caught up in what happened to them.  And although there's no neat resolution, there is some hope at the end.  A great movie. "},{"Title":"Leigh does it again.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Once again, Mike Leigh crafts a film that leaves me completely emotionally drained by the time the credits roll. The film is immensely suspenseful, and this suspense doesn't come in the Hitchcockian 'physical danger around every corner' kind of way. We are exposed to the various secrets and lies formed in this dysfunctional family very early on, and the entire film is just a slow buildup until everything explodes and it is out in the open. We are forced to sit and wait for the inevitable collision of all the painfully awkward secrets that this family contains. Behind all of this is a beautifully operatic score that creates the perfect ambiance to the entire work. As with Leigh's earlier work Naked, he creates an ensemble of strong, detailed and incredibly flawed characters. Everyone has so much inner emotional pain, that when they all end up in a room together your heart explodes with the uncomfortable anguish of every secret revealed. It's a series of savage beatings, one right after the other, that rips your emotional core into pieces and leaves them to be stomped on in the dirt. Of course behind all of this is a beautiful moral, and that's where the film really shines. Behind all of the pain and gut-wrenching heartache, there is a wonderful story that perfectly depicts the folly of secrets and lies. We see that being truthful and honest for your entire life is ultimately the best decision, regardless of how hard it may be. Letting all of the emotional pain build up over the course of decades will only lead to an even more painful conclusion. In the end, it's better to simply be honest and trustworthy. "},{"Title":"As clear and intelligent a view of family life as there is on film","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Trying to make sense of family dynamics -- in all their raging dysfunction -- has been the theme of too many films to count. Few have done it as well as Secrets & Lies. The story centers on an adult woman, adopted at birth, who is seeking her biological mother. Yet this is not what the film is about. The woman is black, the mother, white. Yet even this twist is not really what the film is about.Without getting mired in Dr. Phil-style pop psychology, Secrets & Lies unravels the very simple and basic -- yet powerful -- emotional forces that taint and enliven our relationships with family. It's all here, but presented in a restrained, realistic manner jealousy, resentment, failed expectations, identity and rebelling against one's inherited identity, hope for reconciliation, and -- finally -- love.And though director Mike Leigh's touch and vision seems right on the money, much of the power of the film is owed to the stellar performances, particularly Brenda Blethyn's.To borrow the title of another film, Secrets & Lies is as good as it gets. "},{"Title":"Top Notch Stuff","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of Mike Leigh's finest works.  I am very keen on Leigh's work, but it does sometimes stretch credibility and sometimes stretches one's attention span.  This film is captivating throughout and strangely credible.  It is also very amusing in parts - an element of Mike Leigh's talent that is sometimes absent, sometimes ignored.The acting really is of the best, with Spall, Jean-Baptiste, Logan and Blethyn all putting in classy lead performances.  Super cameos too from Ron Cook and Lesley Manville.  Even Alison Stedman and some others put in tiny guest appearances for fun.The film gives terrific insight into 1990's London, from somewhat gauche middle class suburbs to the down-at-heel working class inner-London boroughs.A great place to start if you want to get in to Mike Leigh's genre of British film.   "},{"Title":"It is no secret or lie that Brenda Blethyn is a gifted actress","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What begins as a fairly pedestrian paint by numbers British family drama becomes anything but by the time the credits for Secrets and Lies begin to roll.  Superbly acted and helped along by the big reveal of all the secrets and lies at the end the film continues to resonate in my mind today.Brenda Blethyn has never received much credit for her incredible portrayal of Cynthia Purley and most of that has to do with the highly over-rated performance of Francis McDormand as a fairly boring and typical North Dakotan police officer in Fargo.  While Emily Watson and Breaking the Waves deserved Academy Awards in 1996, Brenda Blethyn and Secrets and Lies come in a close second.  There was something very real about Cynthia Purley's working class status and desire to fulfill her obligations to her newfound daughter.  Cynthia was by no means the sharpest tool in the shed and the screenplay does an excellent job of conveying the fact that she pretty much has no clue who Hortense's father is and frankly has little idea about responsibility in general.  Her other daughter Roxanne is essentially Cynthia at 21 with more of an attitude and it is little wonder that the two are constantly at odds.  The most refreshing aspect of Secrets and Lies is the refreshing bond that is eventually shared between Cynthia (Brenda Blethyn) and Hortense (Marianne Jean-Baptiste).  These are two women who have absolutely nothing in common save their blood-types.  Hortense is a well-educated Black optometrist with a sense of duty and responsibility while Cynthia is an under-educated White factory worker with little idea about what correct behavior entails.  What is wonderful is the little moments they share at an Italian restaurant where the dialogue is excellent.  Remember when Cynthia ironically mentions that she wishes she could have been a mid-wife because she loves children to a rather bewildered Hortense?  And how sweet and adorable did Brenda Blethyn play Cynthia with her cute little voice and her adorable way of being virtually idiotic but forgivable at the same time.  The woman gave her daughter away but proves that she is a good mom in her own right despite her flaws.  I could have done without the side story with Timothy Spall and his infertile wife because this is a film that is perfectly capable of being carried on the shoulders of Blethyn and Jean-Baptiste.  There are some powerful scenes with the often verbally and physically abusive Roxanne and most delightful are the times when Roxanne is stunned to see her mother leaving for her dates with Hortense.An excellent rental that proves that American family drama doesn't hold a candle to the punch that the Brits pack.      "},{"Title":"Getting better every time","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Each time I see this film I like it more. It's never been my favourite Mike Leigh film, but it's growing on me. There are two things I've tended to find ridiculous about it first, the premise that Cynthia and Hortense are related; second, Brenda Blethyn's acting. But methinks I've been too harsh - the scenario is not so unlikely, and Blethyn does a pretty good job. Acting honours still go to Tim Spall, who's brilliant in this just like he was in Life is Sweet.Now I'm looking forward to the next time it's on the telly... "}{"Title":"a woman's secret causes family problems to rise to the surface","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brenda Blethyn, Marianne Jean-Baptiste, Timothy Spall, Phyllis Logan, and Claire Rushbrook star in Secrets & Lies, a 1996 film written and directed by Mike Leigh. The script is actually improvised, with the actors learning what the characters learn as they go along.Brenda Blethyn is Cynthia Rose Purley, a factory worker and single mother with an obnoxious daughter, Roxanne (Rushbrook). Cynthia is dependent for the occasional handout by her successful photographer brother, Maurice (Spall). Maurice lives in a lovely home with his wife (Logan); Cynthia can't stand her and the feeling is mutual. Maurice no longer has the relationship that he once had with his niece Roxanne, and this bothers him.Cynthia gets a call one day from a woman named Hortense Cumberbatch (Jean-Baptiste) who claims to be the daughter she gave up for adoption. After some hemming and hawing, Cynthia agrees to meet her at a subway stop. When she meets Hortense, she's shocked. Hortense is black.This is a wonderful, poignant, and funny story with just the right amount of drama and humor. The scene in the restaurant, when Cynthia says that Hortense couldn't possibly be her daughter because she's never been with a black man is absolutely priceless.The performances are tremendous. Brenda Blethyn is marvelous as the fragile, needy, eager to please Cynthia, though the character gets a bit annoying with her high-pitched voice and constant talking. Timothy Spall plays a big man with a big heart and will bring one to tears toward the end of the film. It was great to see Phyllis Logan from Lovejoy in such a marvelous role, and she does a great job. Marianne Jean-Baptiste is wonderful as a successful young woman who fights to keep her equilibrium when she's in the midst of a family explosion.Really enjoyed this -- and I guess the name Cumberbatch isn't as unusual as I thought. "},{"Title":"Why we restrain ourselves; fantastic acting","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Secrets and Lies is an exquisitely crafted movie, a recognition of the ties that bind us, although we often contest and deny such ties, for myriad reasons. Leigh is an immensely talented director, in control of the many resources at hand and he marshals said resources for compelling ends in this movie. In this case, the film is, as mentioned, a recognition of the ties which bind and how they are sometimes unseen and, even when recognized, sometimes denied. The story that Leigh tells is that of the Purley family, a family with problems like any other. I hesitate to use the term dysfunctional because it seems the vast majority of families are of this nature and it is rare, the family which is functional. Indeed, such a family might be somewhat dull to watch during the course of a film because, well, where would the conflict be? In any case, the family which Leigh depicts consists in a man named Mo Purley (the amazing Timothy Spall, who has starred several times for Leigh), a successful photographer who has attained a level of success at which he can now buy a nice house with his somewhat superficial wife Monica (Phyllis Logan). Mo has an older sister named Cynthia (the astonishing Brenda Blethyn) who lives a more banal life. She had a child at a young age and missed out on her education and so works in a factory and seems somewhat obsessed with retaining her youthfulness (and indeed she has remained in good physical shape, even if her looks have worn down, as they might by one's early 40s). Cynthia's daughter Roxanne (Claire Rushbrook) works as a city sweeper and resists her mother's advice on how she might better herself. The two women live together in a small house and are short-tempered with one another much of the time, familiarity and proximity might sometimes induce. Roxanne seems the most happy with her life although it would not be satisfying for many. She seems happy because she does not, apparently, wish for much more than she has. She is quite happy with her relaxed relationship with a construction worker Paul (Lee Ross) and their routine of watching television and having a couple of pints at the pub many evenings. Her lack of ambition is not to indict those who have goals, but simply to affirm the value of appreciating what one has. The development which propels the story forward is that a young Afro-Caribbean optometrist, a successful and more composed yin to the Purleys' yang, Hortense (Marianne Jean-Baptiste) decides one day to track down her biological mother. It turns out to be Cynthia, who herself is at her wits' end, discouraged with her dull and monotonous life and with very little self-confidence. Cynthia, however, is a very nice person and is greatly loved by her younger brother for her role in raising him after their mother died when they were children. The relationship between the successful black optometrist and the white factory worker transforms both lives, giving both new appreciation for the wonderful complexity and richness of life. I must admit that I thought that the revelations in the film were not particularly shocking at first. I thought to myself that I had seen many more jarring and shocking developments before. That said, the acting in this film is second-to-none. Spall, Jean-Baptiste, and Blethyn in particular are exceptional and, although I have seen some critical comments of Frances McDormand for her Oscar-winning performance in Fargo, I do not think she was undeserving of the award, at least to the degree which some commenters seem to believe. Yes, her performance did not require the emotional range of Blethyn's, or the control of Baptiste's but in enlivening a bland Minnesota police officer, McDormand admirably imagined the cadences and persona of anonymity, and made them compelling. That said, I would not have had a problem with Blethyn winning. Her reaction when it sinks in that the girl she had given up for adoption has found her, is amazing. And the gradual transformation which this revelation has on her life is also amazing, as imagined by Blethyn. In short, Blethyn's performance was Oscar-worthy. Baptiste is also amazing, embodying, with such restraint, the opposite of the out-of-control lives which burden the Purleys. She is the essence of class and provides a soothing counterpoint to the chaos of the Purleys' lives. And for me, Spall is better than both ladies- which is saying something. One can see the strain that these uneasy relationships are having on him and how he attempts to remain on an even keel amid the tensions and sniping between other family members. He retains this composure until a memorable explosion toward the end of the film. Were he not so composed throughout, the story would have no emotional center. Spall is fantastic. Leigh's direction is admirable in its restraint. He recognizes that he has a winning story and he elicits measured performances from his actors, building up to the climax of the film without giving up any tension along the way. The metaphor of Mo's photography and his ability to elicit appropriate reactions from family members with obviously conflicting agendas and attitudes is representative of his abilities to steer the feelings of family members away from the harmful, hurtful reactions which they all wish to unleash on one another. He captures snapshots of groups as they wish to be captured. However, the mode in which they are photographed usually does not reflect their actual feelings at the time, and indeed may obscure peoples' true feelings about being there, in those circumstances, with those people. In short, this film captures persuasively the degree to which we hide our feelings from one another and how revelation might be better for our mental health and may not actually harm us as much as enable us to come to terms with ourselves. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I simply love this film.The characters are all flawed, and their flaws lead them to hurt each other in different ways. Yet the film allows us to see them as deep, complex human beings, presents them as decent people trying to do the right thing, lets us empathise with them, and allows each to find redemption.The film treads the fine line between laughter and tears. It never ends up belittling the characters or descending into mawkish pity.Watching lonely, disappointed Cynthia trying to reach out to her angry and isolated daughter Roxanne by suggesting that Roxanne should borrow her old Dutch cap and go on a date is simultaneously hilarious, embarrassing and painful.All of the actors put in superb performances of great depth and humanity. These are real people You probably know someone like each one of them.As the film edges from Hortense's decision to trace her mother, to Roxanne's memorable birthday party, where the secrets and lies are exposed, you're rooting for them all.One final point. In films about family, men are usually portrayed as villainous or hapless or both. That's not true here. The male characters (childless Maurice, Roxanne's boyfriend Paul, and Cynthia's father - dead but referred to by several characters) are allowed to have realistic, thoughtful and brave relationships with the female characters and the family as a whole.A superb, life-affirming movie that shows the value of truth, forgiveness and family, even in the depths of despair. You'll laugh and cry in equal measure. "},{"Title":"Simple, But Meaningful!","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Secrets and  Lies is a powerful drama. It really is moving and causes us to think about life and the difficulties and the surprises we all go through. `Secrets and Lies' tells the story of a black woman, named Hortense, who tries to look for her biological mother just after her foster parents die.  Hortense, who's a successful optometrist in London,  finally finds her true mother working in a factory.  Her mother is white and lives with a mean white daughter who doesn't respect her. The mother also has a brother who has problems with his wife. What really made me think about this movie, was the way a woman who never saw her biological mother before, could be so sensible, and so nice to her, while the mother living with her other daughter since she was born suffers from her daughter's hatred and disrespectful attitude. The story is really moving as you see Hortense talking to her real mother. Everything they said in the barbecue scene rang true to me. Another bonus is Brenda Blenthyn who is an amazing actress, and I'm glad she was nominated for an Oscar; however, I thought Nicole Kidman should have won it for Portrait of a Lady,  but sadly she didn't even receive a nomination.I'm glad most of the script was improvised, as it makes the story believable and very interesting. An improvised script is so wonderful, because you can say it's a real family, who hasn't memorized the words they have to say. They all say interesting things according to the scene. An example would be the barbecue scene, in which everything seems so real. The actors seem to live the drama, without overdoing it.  It's not a movie you see everyday. I'm glad it got a lot of kudos. It really deserves them. I admire Leigh for making such a powerful movie that is so simple with a happy ending, but so meaningful at the same time. 8/10.   "},{"Title":"Sweetie, I can't help you....","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brenda Blethyn and Marianne Jean-Baptiste are outstanding in this film. One noteworthy thing about this film is that there really was no script.  The roles were mostly improvised.  Brenda Blethyn won several awards for this performance--very well deserved, since it was a very challenging performance.  Quite a character she plays!  In my opinion, Emily Watson gave the best performance of 1996, but Brenda was second best, and I give her a lot of credit for improvising her role.  But it's Marianne Jean-Baptiste who steals the show.  Her performance is wonderful to watch.  It seems as if SHE is the leading character, and not a supporting actress.The movie itself is not bad, but dull.  Slow-paced...but still interesting to watch.  It ended so abruptly though!  I was watching one scene, and then all of a sudden, the closing credits started rolling on the screen.  I said to myself, it's over???  Overall, this film is a serious (though funny at times), thought-provoking drama.  Watch it if you want to see two of the best performances of the nineties.  The telephone call scene is memorable. I give this film a rating of 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a drama for adults only.  The subject matter would never interest a child.  It is an extremely well-done movie, and the performances were among the best of the year.  Timothy Spall and the rest of the cast are unforgettable.  Mike Leigh is some kind of genius.  "},{"Title":"Should have been named ''Best Picture'' !","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unlike American films attempting to tackle such a tangle of relationships, the British do so in a manner which spares the viewer not one inch for syrupy happy endings or sterilised overpasses where difficult subjects are concerned.  The film at times is relentless, but one can only feel a mounting sense of joy as the story unfolds, and unfolds, and keeps unfolding !   Like ''The Full Monty'', this is a film that HAD to be made in Britain although the basic story-line could certainly have taken on the resemblance of something out of the Northeastern US (for example).  Brenda Blethyn (Best Actress nomination) and Marianne Jean-Baptiste (Best Supporting Actress nomination) should have taken home statues on Oscar night. This was the best picture of 1996, make no mistake about it !  Top rating (5 stars of 5).  "},{"Title":"An excellent drama involving an unravelling family.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unlike a previous voter, I happen to think this is one of the _finest_ movies ever made, and Brenda Blethyn's performance is quite real. Marianne Jean-Baptiste and Blethyn both deserved to not only be nominated for Oscars, but also to have actually won them. This was also my introduction to the versatile, talented Claire Rushbrook (who I hope to see doing more movies soon). Secrets & Lies is well-written, well-directed and well-performed in every way. It can be painful to watch at times, but only due to its honest treatment of the subject matter. I recommend it wholeheartedly. "},{"Title":"Europe against Hollywood","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Secrets & Lies is one of the most intelligent and emotional movies made in the 90's. Leigh gives a clear impression of family life without being as dark as he was in 'Naked', this time he makes it lighter and funnier. But this picture's strength is the lead actress Brenda Blethyn. She plays the role of a mother as if she is just being filmed in her daily life rather then acting. The movie proves that European cinema is not dead at all, Hollywood can learn a lot from Leigh & Co. "},{"Title":"Strikingly 'real' human characters","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A young black woman seeks out her family history and gets drawn into the suppressed, emotionally complex lives of her birth mother and her extended family. In terms of plot, that's about it. Nothing really 'exciting' happens. It's just a story about people and how they relate to each other. But that doesn't mean it isn't dramatic, or absorbing. It is.Mike Leigh's record in character-based films is rightly legendary. He knows exactly how to do this. But it only works if the performances are excellent. And on the whole, these are.To start with the main drawback, Phyllis Logan's accent grates with me. Her character is supposed to be Scottish, but the accent doesn't work at all. And I'm afraid, for me, this detracts a little from her character, which is probably one of the weakest in the film anyway.But it is more than made up for by the superb performances of Timothy Spall, Brenda Blethyn and Marianne Jean-Baptiste. It's not often when watching a film that you develop a strong opinion of a character at the beginning which is completely changed by the end. Blethyn does that here her character was intensely annoying to me at first (almost made me switch off in fact). But by the end I felt quite differently. And that's down to Blethyn and Leigh.There's a couple of scene-stealing minor cameos to look out for too. One is by Lesley Manville, playing the social worker who starts Hortense (Jean-Baptiste) on her search for her real mother. The other is by Ron Cook, as the failed emigrant who once sold Maurice (Spall) his photography business. Both are only on screen for a few minutes, but leave a lasting impression and are the kind of strikingly 'real' human characters that these kind of films are all about.At 2hrs 40 minutes 'Secrets and Lies' is a bit of a marathon. But it needs to be - and it repays your patience. If you stay till the end you will have seen a very good film. "}{"Title":"Very intimate and realistic look at a handful of people trying to get by, but plagued by events bound to raise emotion.","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of rather a few main characters in Mike Leigh's Secrets & Lies is Timothy Spall's Maurice Purley, a photographer; husband; brother and father to rather a few of the other characters. There is an extended sequence during which he takes snapshots of a variety of different people as they pose for wedding photos, family portraits or just want to be snapped with their beloved cats. The sequence acts as an extremely brief glimpse into the lives of many different people, getting up to many different things and quite clearly at many different stages in their respective lives. But this is the essence of Leigh's film in the wider spectrum of things, Secrets & Lies being much more than a 'brief' glimpse at different lives and actually resembling more of a long and drawn out study of different people. The point is captured during the arguing couple's turn to be snapped. What they'll always see when they look back at the photo is the smiling, posing couple they were when they were caught on celluloid but what the photograph won't tell anyone else is what happened immediately pre and post the capture, that being an argument.Secrets & Lies is the film that delves into the idyllic or relatively firm lives certain people lead and exposes the past or mistakes and how they do not just effect the individuals directly involved but other, more supposedly innocent, agents. Secrets & Lies is the 'pre-photograph' argument and the 'post-photograph' disagreement told around numerous characters amidst the backdrop of mid-nineties Britain.Maurice Purley's sister is Cynthia Rose Purley (Blethyn), a troubled woman by the secrets she possesses on top of trying to aid her daughter Roxanne (Rushbrook) in her respective coming of age as she sweeps roads for a living and shares an uneasy but strictly balanced relationship with her mother. If one of them is going out, the other gets suspicious and you generally get the feeling if someone says something out of turn or relatively ambiguous, then arguments could well be the order of the day. Twinned with this and on a completely different tangent that will soon become entwined is the story of Hortense Cumberbatch (Jean-Baptiste), a young but very successful black woman whose adoptive mother has just died and she deems it worthy that now is the time to track down who her real mother was.Needless to say, Cynthia is connected as they are seen sharing a drink rather gleefully together on the film's poster. But getting there is a quarter of the fun as this rather sad woman in Cynthia is established to be accordingly so before a relative bombshell is dropped that only the two of them, it is initially deemed, should know about. I think there is quite a bit to like about Secrets & Lies, and not just because of the exceptional direction; humbling scenes played out amidst takes lasting several minutes; brilliant acting and that down and dirty feel the film has as it looks at life amongst people you feel could be real. But all these things do count in its favour. Leigh's study is what happens beneath the surface of a mere snapshot of life and amongst the good job, big house and relatively large family Maurice has lies certain doubts and regrets that are not evidently there on the surface, echoing the arguing couple and their photograph situation.The film pays sly nod to what it isn't when, in a rare scene involving people actually looking quite cheery, two people stumble out of a cinema and past a film poster for the 1995 film Judge Dredd, laughing in a carefree and happy manner. At that point nothing else matters to them, for they have found one-another and are enjoying their time. For the audience, as we witness this new found bond, we notice the poster for the mainstream Hollywood affair mentioned and filter whatever feelings or sniffy reactions we may have to something like Judge Dredd through our actual emotions as we witness these two people merrily trot down the street. It's a moment of realisation for us as the two characters enjoy their time together, a moment when we realise what we are seeing really is cinema being as intriguing and humbling as it might possibly be, the complete opposite to Stallone's 1995 star vehicle.Without ever turning too much into a melodramatic television episode, Leigh pushes his characters onward and finishes with a dramatic set piece. Only, it isn't explosive literally as much as it is emotionally. The fact Hortense has found who she's looking for and nobody else at a BBQ birthday function knows about it is such a sly and drawn out ingredient that carries such a degree of suspense through character driven situations. There is a degree of juxtaposition in regard to the pleasure of the birthday party and the burning secret two people withhold. The film has mostly everything that makes a solid film. The development of certain characters is wonderful as is the direction and use of the long take. Secrets & Lies is a rather impressive piece of work. "},{"Title":"You gotta laugh, ain't ya sweetheart? Else you'd cry.","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw that two sets of Mike Leigh's films are being issued, and that he is a five-time Oscar nominee. I have only see one of his films (Vera Drake) and I was anxious to see how this film showed his obvious talents as a writer/director. I was not disappointed to say the least.I can easily understand through this film what my grandmother went through when my father showed up on her doorstep after 60 years. I imagine that she had the same anguish and disbelief that was so capably expressed by Cynthia Rose (Brenda Blethyn). Blethyn was so good in Little Voice, and just as exciting in this film.The cast also included Peter Pettigrew from the Harry Potter films. He was also Beadle in Sweeney Todd. Timothy Spall played Cynthia's brother Maurice, and did a really super job. I kept thinking whenever the two of them were together that there was something that was tearing them apart (I was guessing incest). Of course, we won't know all until the end, but it was captivating.Oscar-nominated Marianne Jean-Baptiste (Without a Trace) was the daughter thought to be gone. She was absolutely radiant and quite a great actress.The story wasn't just about the out-of-wedlock child given up, but also other secrets and lies that kept this family from functioning as they should. It is something that can hit home with every viewer of this film. I found personal messages and I am sure that others will, too. "},{"Title":"Gobsmacked!","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remembered this got excellent write-ups when released but never got round to seeing it. Broadcast on ch4 over Christmas I recorded it. I bit long at over 2 hours but I was glued to the screen so forgot it's length. The story of a black girl seeking her real mother, after her adoptive mother dies, is only 40% of the film's message. A truly stunning performance from Brenda Blethyn as an emotion wreck on/about to have a nervous breakdown keeps you hooked throughout. The scene in the café, which goes on for several minutes, all done in one shot with no breaks, shows Brenda's talent and Mike Leigh's directorial genius. Immediately into my top 20 films ever. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly observed slice of life","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an a really excellent film, the acting from the main players is superb, especially Spall and Blethyn. The film has many layers of emotion that will ring bells with your own life, albeit in a diluted form....hopefully. Don't watch this film on a hot sunny day after having just won the lottery but maybe when you are feeling a little reflective and allow yourself to be absorbed by the characters. Even the most morale of us live a dishonest life in order to be able to cope, but the time arrives when we have to own up to who and what we are and reveal our vulnerable side to the ones that we really love. Its what ultimately makes us human. Great film. "},{"Title":"Perfect 10 How we wither when we refuse to let love in.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike Leigh, directing without a script, has created a true masterpiece.  An emotionally powerful character study, this movie will make you think about your own secrets and lies.The plot is very simple. Hortense Cumberbatch (Marianne Jean-Baptiste), a black optometrist, has recently buried her adopted mother. She decides to try and track down her biological mother. She obtains her adoption records and locates her mother, Cynthia Purley (Brenda Blethyn), who lives on the other side of London. Cynthia, it turns out, is white. Through Cynthia we are introduced into the extended Purley family.The movie revolves around Cynthia. We meet her daughter Roxanne (Claire Richbrook), a surly, hard drinking young woman who works as a street sweeper. We meet Maurice (Timothy Spall), Cynthia's brother, who has become a successful portrait and wedding photographer. There is also Maurice's wife, Monica (Phyllis Logan), moody and bitter, and wholly devoted to decorating their home. From the start we see that this family is fragmented, divided, lost. Each member is divorced from the others because each has spun a web of lies to protect their secrets. They are all in pain, but they are all utterly unable to express their pain directly, because they refuse to open themselves to one another. It is Hortense that acts as the catalyst for an explosion. Having found and met Cynthia, Hortense becomes curious about the rest of the family. She and Cynthia continue to get to know each other, and to become friends. As a result, Cynthia invites Hortense to Roxanne's birthday party, which Maurice and Monica are hosting.This movie is a very careful and thorough examination of the ways in which these people have withered, as a result of having cut themselves off from each other. Their secrets have become cancers, destroying them from the inside. They are all desperate for meaningful contact, for love. But they have destroyed the openness that love requires.This movie has tackled some very raw issues, and it is not a movie that shrinks away from the pain these issues cause. The film is brilliant in portraying the deep wounds caused by ordinary people trying to manage as best they can. The film develops slowly, a character study rather than a story. As such we are given deep explorations of each character. Maurice, for example, is a very large man, but very quiet, very unassuming. In a brilliant sequence that takes place in his studio, we see him taking portraits, managing very awkward situations with care and tact. One portrait is of a horribly scarred young woman. A beauty consultant, the photos are to be evidence in a lawsuit. She is clearly scarred inside as well, and when the flash goes off, she nearly jumps out of her chair. But Maurice puts her at ease, and offers his sympathy, without being condescending. Yet we also see him brush off a sponger with kindness and strength. The Buddy Guy song Don't Mistake Kindness for Weakness could have been dedicated to Maurice.As in real life, the tension of the film arises from the interactions of these characters. Petty jealousies flare up, and old wounds are reopened time and again. Cynthia, for example, resents her daughter Roxanne. Roxanne was conceived when Cynthia was very young. Cynthia had always been saddled with taking care of Maurice when they were children, and became a mother far too young. She sees Roxanne as having made it impossible for her to explore life. Roxanne, meanwhile, has been beaten into the ground by Cynthia's blaming her for how her life has turned out. When Cynthia meets Hortense, she is called up short. Hortense is beautiful, successful, and very kind. Cynthia sees for the first time that a child can actually be a joy, a source of pride and a feeling of accompishment. This feeling slowly leads her to try to heal the breach between herself and Roxanne.Don't look for swelling violins or cliché happy endings. Leigh refuses to let us believe that years of hostility can be overcome in a day. Hollywood deplores an unresolved story, and we have been conditioned to expect neatly packaged resolutions to deep and complex territory. It is rare for a film to strike an emotional chord without resorting to base manipulation. But if you want to see a film that can truly move you, and make you really think about your own life, don't miss this one. See it twice.  "},{"Title":"True to life and better for it.","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was a gritty and realistic portrayal of English working class life. This is how people are in England and Mike Leigh's characterisation is superb. He captures the trauma of secrets and lies within family life perfectly. I only recently saw this movie and can't believe I left it so long. Something different if you are sick and tired of formulaic Hollywood sentimentality. "},{"Title":"Live in the darkness","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Maurice was a successful photographer. He could satisfy every customer but not his wife because they had no children. Maurice lived under heavy pressure. His older sister Cynthia also lived an unhappy life with her daughter. Hortense was an optimistic black girl. After her foster mother was dead, she decided to find out who was her born mother. The outcome really shocked her.Secret and lies are not welcome in reality. Especially is dark secret. The longer you keep it, the more painful you will be. In fact if we can learn to face with the truth, the problem will be easy to solve.Director Mike Leigh brought me a touching movie full of details that you can not watch in other movies. I found that he really is fond of laying stress on detail. His another movie Bleak Moments also is a good example.An excellent family drama. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of my 10 favourite movies of all time","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'd first seen Secrets & Lies back in 1996 and I was completely blown away by the complexity of the story, the simplicity with which it was approached, the in depth analysis of each of the characters' inner world, the excellent performances by each one of the actors, the direction, cinematography, all.... Brenda Blethyn is stunning and should have won the Oscar but great acting is recognized no matter how many awards it earns.The story is original and is not confined to the meeting of an adopted woman and her real mother; it's much more than that. It's about human relationships and how they age in time. Although it was not easy to identify myself with any of the characters, I couldn't help but sympathize with them all the way till the climax. And that's one of the reasons why this movie is a definite winner. A masterpiece.10 "},{"Title":"Commenting on a comment","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Another IMDB member wrote  snip In this film Brenda Blethen concocts an accent that is soincomprehensible that I couldn't watch the film straight but had to break it up  into many viewings. I saw My Left Foot so I know this is made up because shehad a different accent there. It seems every year Mike Leigh puts out an award  winning film and I dread them because they're made up of the most low classcharachters and awful sounding voices. snipMy Left Foot was set in Ireland. Was Brenda Blethyn in it, or was that Brenda  Fricker, who is Irish? The characters in Secrets and Lies are Londoners andthat's how they speak.  xxxxxxxxxxxx  "},{"Title":"Not what I was expecting","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After hearing so many very positive comments about this movie I finally succumbed and rented it. I had seen it on the shelves before but avoided it because the theme seemed so bleak. I should have trusted my instincts! Although the movie was well acted and the subject intriguing, the well-crafted aspects did not overcome the labourious pace, disjointed delivery, and sheer unpleasantness of almost all the main female characters. This movie also leaves many questions unanswered and some aspects of the plot hanging; what was the purpose of the return of the man who Maurice had bought the studio from? why was there almost no exploration of the effects of the inter-racial aspect? why did it take over 2 hours to tell what was basically a simple tale? Surrounded by the crushingly depressing scenes of working class British life, this LONG movie takes work to sit through and the glimpses of intelligent film-making are too brief to save it. "}{"Title":"A Morality Tale?","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A successful black woman (Marianne Jean-Baptiste) traces her birth mother to a lower-class white woman (Brenda Blethyn), who denies it; emotions run high as everyone's secrets are exposed.What I love about this film is that it makes a point about race and class, but not in the same way that an American film probably would. In America, there is a tendency to see race and ignore class, when it could be that the latter is the bigger problem. Here, we have a racial divide, and also a class divide -- but the class divide is the reverse of what we might expect.Roger Ebert wrote that moment after moment, scene after scene, Secrets & Lies unfolds with the fascination of eavesdropping. I had not noticed it at the time, but it is quite true. These are intimate moments in the lives of a family, things that we would never see... "},{"Title":"Secrets & Lies (1996)","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At first it seems like a fairly routine family drama, but as these characters work their way under your skin, they develop rich complexities and rewarding relationships. The results are intensely moving, and I'm not ashamed to admit that by the end I was a blubbering wreck. Not a note of it seems phony, contrived or forced. There is no Jeremy character as in NAKED, every villain is imbued with true humanity. It seems almost criminal to single out any particular performance, as the cast is brilliant across the board. But I must say I was especially taken with the heartbreaking Brenda Blethyn and the utterly endearing Marianne Jean-Baptiste, two actresses who I've only seen in bit parts in far lesser works. If I were nitpicking, I'd say the Ron Cook (the photographer that Timothy Spall bought his studio from) scene is unnecessary and a bit out of place. It's not a bad scene at all, just a bit distracting. But other than that minor quibble, I adored it. A warm, touching, magnificent look at family, the barriers that keep them apart, and the roles and disguises we maintain for all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I suspect the reason that this film is so good is that it doesn't really do anything particularly new, given Mike Leigh's canon up to this point. In fact the plot is rather more conventional, a family drama in which secrets are revealed and their consequences borne.It's really about the performances. Brenda Blethyn's came from nowhere to create Cynthia, a deeply traumatised, lonely hausfrau, rescued from her via dolorosa of the damaged when an unlikely visitor comes into her life. Marianne Jean-Baptiste deserved better than that rancid cameo in the risible The Cell which followed this turn as Hortense, equally perplexing as no-one had heard of her either. Claire Rushbrook is a favourite of mine so I knew what to expect and part of me wishes that she was Timothy Spall's sister in real life. Spall himself is like the incarnation of the lineage of Leigh's work and the film would be merely very good without him. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Devastating!","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What an incredibly funny and moving film. I don't think I've seen a performance as good as Brenda Blethyn's heartbreaking Cynthia. Along with her like a roller-coaster ride your laughing one minute and crying the next. The other actors can't quite match her devastating performance but are all excellent particularly Marianne Jean-Baptiste and Timothy Spall. When I saw how long the film was I thought it would be too much but your so engrossed by the characters and the story it goes by very quickly and I really really didn't want it to end, although you can't imagine it could end in a more perfect way then the way it does. There's very few films that can show people and their lives as real and truthful as this does. (10/10) "},{"Title":"12 years later","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I hate movies that make me cry. I started crying about 8 minutes into Secrets and Lies. I kept trying to change the channel, but something made me go back and keep watching this movie. I could not stop wondering what was happening to the characters.This is a beautiful study of human beings in the bizarro world we live in today. It totally captures the isolation and alienation that is inherent in modern life. With every moment these imperfect humans stumble through the everyday awkward situations we all are unequipped to handle; yet they persevere in their uniqueness and in the end; love truly conquers all.I would ask everyone I know to watch this film...and keep your box of tissues handy. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly executed","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Personal family issues that have been avoided and lied about finally are confronted when Hortense (Marianne Jean-Baptiste) decides to find her biological mother after her adoptive mother has died. After finding her biological mother Cynthia(Brenda Blethyn), she is still confronted with the secrets that have been hidden within the family for years.Secrets and Lies show how heavy a load can be to carry when a secret with such magnitude as a adoption, can a future effects on an entire family. Hortense's(Jean-Baptiste) biological family has more than just the adoption that has been hidden. It takes this to bring out the truths that have been hidden, not just about the adoption, but other secrets as well.The most intriguing part of the film is where Cynthia(Blethyn) invites Hortense(Jean-Baptiste) to her other daughter's birthday party. It is then that the family finally opens up about the hidden secrets that they all have been hiding.The film's conclusion shows that it is possible to rebuild the future no matter what the past, and how secrets and lies can and will harm innocent people.Mike Leigh does an excellent job in portraying the feeling of being an outsider always looking in, and not fitting in. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yesterday I saw this movie for the third time. And I am always surprised. How Leigh could do a o nice, beautiful, delicate, sensitive work in a so little time? I think that he has only looked around him and observe the miseries and the greatness of our poor souls. Moments as when Cynthia approaches Monica to support her and Monica confess her jealousy to Cynthia are among the best scenes never shot in cinema, even among the most delicate pieces of art. This film re conciliates you with family and yourself, but more than this, it brings you hope, it brings you faith in forgiveness and respect. At the end, when Cynthia says That's life!, I would like so much share a cup of tea with her and her daughters (don't you?). Why can not see movies like that at the present? We need it! "},{"Title":"Real","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although one knows that it is a film, it is so life like that any criticism is more towards the actions of the characters rather than the cinematography. I think that only a person with a trained ear can prevent themselves falling into the films reality sufficiently to comment on the soundtrack. To be honest I can't even recall the soundtrack, maybe the distraction would in some way have compromised my concentration on it, of which I was glad to give. One of the failings of Hollywood is that it is reliant on media and itself, in some way it demands superficiality, depth is too individual. This film showed some people as they really are, not rich or cruel but poor and naive and with no added attractions to make them more palatable. I do agree that it should have been film of the year in 1996 and I am sure it would have been of greater financial value. But its value as a film must be judged by ones heart, to me it was fantastic. "},{"Title":"Impressive picture of life. The real one.","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favourites. In top ten I might say -) The screenplay and the acting satisfies me absolutely. Mike Leigh seems to have the skill of seeing far behind the facade of people's lives. The film shows us the human natures of the tragical characters in an understandable way. This kind of movies makes the world better! "},{"Title":"A must-see","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't often cry at movies, but I did at this one. It's not a tear-jerker with all the manipulative stuff that entails (sweeping strings, zoom-ins, etc to bludgeon you into feeling what you're supposed to feel). After watching this, I want to see everything director Mike Leigh has made. It reminded me somewhat of Redford's Ordinary People, but is a hundred times better than even that good movie. (It's set in London, UK, and all the actors and actresses speak with British accents.). Brilliant! A must-see for all who like good movies. "}{"Title":"How could I ask for more?","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't begin to explain how perfect this film is to me. It is now 2001, 4 years after I originally saw it, and I'm still moved every time I watch it. I had been searching for years for a character-driven plot that really captured all of the things that motivate human action and emotion. This film is a vessel for those things, one can apply his or her own situation to any aspect of it, whether it be dysfunction within the family or personal struggle. I'd seen many of Mike Leigh's films prior to this one (A favorite being the hilarious Abigail's Party) and I feel he reached a pinnacle with Secrets And Lies. Brenda Blethyn was absolutely amazing as Cynthia, and Timothy Spall just as brilliant as Maurice. It's the perfect example of a group of artists converging on a project to make something really profound. Leigh has had it in many of his films but never has it come together like this. I recommend this film to anyone who enjoys character-driven cinema and, well, just plain good acting.  "},{"Title":"Really a very sweet film","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this film would be very predictable, kind of politically correct. I surmised it would show racial hatred for Cynthia having a black child. However, it was more a shock that she had had a child years ago, and gave it up for adoption. Hortense was intelligent, gentle, and non-judgmental. She grew up in a wonderful family and was educated. She accepted her mother, even though she was lower class. I loved the character of Cynthia, the way she called everyone darlin or sweetheart. Life just hadn't good to her. We see her exposed in her misery-a working-class woman, drinking for solace, with a rebellious daughter. I know it's only a film, but I felt so happy for her that she had gained the love of a child she had lost.  "},{"Title":"plausible and wonderfull","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike Leigh's Secrets & Lies is one of the best movies I have ever seen and probably the best acting-driven movie I have seen. Some people that have commented on this film concludes, that the film is weak, because the problems of the film today would'nt cause so much harm to the characters in the story. I have to say, that people in fact can keep secrets for each other that seems obvious for any one involved to figure out for themselves. It's easy for us to say it, because we're not in it. Therefore I believe, that Mike Leigh's handling of the story is absolutely fabolous. The film gives you a great story, superb acting, interesting characters, emotional wrenching scenes, an intelligent blend of humor and seriousness and a wonderful plausible ending. I recommend you to see it! "},{"Title":"great movie that is very overlooked","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  after looking through some stuff on the oscars i realized that this film had been up for many including best picture, actress, supporting actress, screenplay, and director.i had never heard of it before.now i want to own it. it is incredibly well done because a lot of it was improvised.it very aptly represents a family situation when there are secrets and lies buried underneath everything and what can happen when they come to the service.another reason i feel this is a well done piece is because it is made in england and it focuses on the relationships between the people.if it had been made in america, racial tension would have been brought into the story, thus screwing up the message of the film. i honestly think this is one of the best films i have ever seen. mike leigh did an amazing job directing. great performances by brenda blethyn(who won the cannes award for best actress, the golden globe, the british oscar, and was nominated for an academy award),the guy who played maurice,marianne jean-baptiste, and many others. "},{"Title":"A Movie to make you think","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With a flawless cast of characters, this movie grabs you right from the start. The setting could be anywhere, but set in the gritty London suburbs it is probably most effective.  What family does not have its own Secrets and Lies?  The birthday party was probably one of the most moving and traumatic scenes I have ever experienced in a movie, you feel for them each and every one, their insecurities, jealousies - and deep down their love for each other.  This is not a movie for the faint hearted -certainly there are plenty of laughs, but mostly it is about ordinary every day people, faced with a fairly extraordinary situation and how each of them come to terms with it in their own way.What appealed  most to me was the way that Brenda Blethyn's character, ostensibly a weak woman unable to cope with life, develops confidence and a real rapport with her long lost daughter - someone whose upbringing, education and general outlook on life is virtually in another world.I was surprised to read a comment that it ended suddenly.  The ending was perfect - just the right balance of humour and optimism.  You were left with the feeling that maybe it would all work out for everyone.A movie to watch more than once, it has so much to offer. "},{"Title":"Great movie with a sense of meaning to it","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The other day I saw 30 seconds of that action film with Cindy Crawford and Baldwin, and I just had to turn it off immediately because it made me depressed. Depressed because people fill their lives with such meaningless crap. Then I watched Secrets and Lies, and watching it made me think over a few things and kind of reevaluate. You might want to say that getting a black baby and adopting it is not a tabu in our days,or it is not of any interest, but the whole meaning of this film is that everyone of us has his own dilemmas and problems,and how should we deal with them? When Timothy Spall as Maurice Purley lets his anger out at the end WHY ALL THE SECRETS AND LIES. WHY CANT YOU TELL THE TRUTH? WHY IS THAT SO DIFFICULT? Why cant we have more films like this? "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Secrets and Lies was so awesome.  Mostly because of the talent of Brenda Blethyn, Marianne Jean-Baptiste, and Timothy Spall.  They all brought a sense of realism to their parts.  It still p****s me off all these years later that this movie didn't win all of the Academy Awards it was nominated for---The English Patient wasn't that good. "},{"Title":"This is a very intimate movie.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I fell in love with this movie after the first viewing.  The tension between the characters is offset by the close, intimate way in which they are filmed.  We become part of Cynthia's world as we participate in, first her discovery of Hortense, and then the revelation of the family's secrets which have been kept for so long.I recommend this movie to anyone who has siblings, to anyone who has ever had a secret, and to anyone who enjoys good cinema. "},{"Title":"Adoption story for the 90's","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As an adoptee, I absolutely LOVE this film. As an adoptee rights activist I believe everyone who has been touched by adoption should see this film (adoptee, adoptive parent, birthparent, siblings, etc.)... and if you are a non-adopted person you should see it so you can have an understanding of just how DIFFERENT it can feel to be adopted.Excellent commentary on open records legislation, adoption reform, search and reunion, and issues of identity. I highly recommend it!Cheryl, reunited adoptee "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie a couple of years ago and when i saw that the first customer review here (by some guy whose favorite movie is men in black(?!)) was so negative, i had to say something nice about it.Well, this movie is a loving portrayal of working class people which will definitely not disappoint you.  "}{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Secrets and Lies is the movie where I first noticed the amazing Brenda Blethyn.  The way she's able to transform herself into her characters shows how talented the woman is.  In this movie she plays a white trash box factory worker whose world is rocked when her black daughter, whom she gave up for adoption years ago, wants to reunite.  Blethyn (cynthia) and Marianne Jean-Baptiste (as the daughter, Hortense) are awesome and so's this movie.Also Timothy spall who plays cynthia's brother, Maurice, gives a good performance which i think should've been nominated for an oscar. "},{"Title":"Able to produce great effect","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How can I state something not good about a film that made me laugh and cry at the same time? Mike Leigh shows how a movie must be simple (the story could happen to anyone) but deep (he goes into the heart and brain of the persons).    "},{"Title":"Mike Leigh continues to make brilliant films.","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have watched Mike Leigh's career over the years and I am glad to see that 'Secrets and Lies' lives up to the expectation from this great director/writer.  This is an excellent film - full of humour and sadness. In this day and age of action films, youth films, and idiot films, it is good to see that there is still room for films that require thought, and where one can see acting.  The cast is brilliant.  It is good to see people that actually LOOK like people in the street; who have problems expressing their emotions as well as their feelings; and who in spite of these limitations, are able to convey their pain and suffering.  It is refreshing to see a film about real people, with real problems, who attempt to solve their problems, or at least come to guarded truce, and not solve them by filling the screen with boring 'special effects' or  with blood and guts. It is good to see a film set in a grimy area of London, and not in the splendid opulence of boring American cities.  Congratulations to the actors for a brilliant ensemble presentation; congratulations to Britain's Channel 4 for its continued commitment to thought and interest, and not taking the easy way out like American television and going for the 'money' and ratings; and finally, congratulations to Mike Leigh for presenting us with an interesting film and allowing the actors to give the performances of their lives. "},{"Title":"A powerful emotional experience that will leave you changed","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is possibly the most emotionally cathartic film I have ever seen. I have never cared more for a group of characters as I did for those in Secrets and Lies. Director/writer Mike Leigh is famous for taking his actors, giving them the outlines of their characters and having them improvise most of their lines.  This technique succeeds brilliantly here - you feel as if you're a part of these people's lives.  All the actors turn in wonderful performances - Brenda Blethyn as the long-suffering poor single English mother, Marianne Jean Baptiste as a young black girl in search of her natural parents, Claire Rushbrook as Blethyn's rebellious daughter, and Phyllis Logan as Blethyn's well-to-do yet frustrated sister in law.  At the center of it all is a monumentally understated performance by Timothy Spall, who as Blethyn's brother attempts to hold everyone's lives together as they face the pain of their ordinary existence.  A truly moving film that is one of the best ever. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully made and well acted movie.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is very real, not fantasy life(like the 90210)   It focuses on real individuals and their moods, feelings, problems - not action.   This was a very emotional, vivid, somewhat bleak movie that left you with strong feelings.  I thought about this movie for days after seeing it a few months ago and still think about it occasionally.If you happen to be the type to read these comments -  The characters were SUPPOSED to elicit a kind of irritation.  This isn't like Baywatch. The characters are real and regular people who have emotional problems & dependencies, which is the theme of the movie. Everybody seems depressed and distressed over the choices they've made in life.  They are unhappy.This was one of the best movies i've seen in at least 2 years.  Check out Roger Ebert's review on IMDB, which is beautiful and also keep in mind that IMDB voters gave the movie over an 8 score (out of 10).  If you like intelligent movies and don't have ADD (attention deficit disorder) because you must be a patient movie-watcher to enjoy this flick, you will be greatly rewarded for your patience. "},{"Title":"Powerful and brilliant.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time just the other night, on tv.I thought it was one of the most extraordinarily powerful statements I have seen in a long time.  I feel sorry for some of the other reviewers, who seem to think life is some sort of ice-cream, and want to pick out the hard lumps.Brenda Blethyn was brilliant beyond words, as indeed was Timothy Spall.  How different from the last time I saw them together - that cricket club comedy on television. "},{"Title":"Rare movie-magic; emotional & surprising","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rarely do I want to see a tear jerker, but it is so authentic and powerful, it is one of the best films of its kind!Be patient; this movie is in no hurry to show itself all at once.  If you are patient, the payback is worth it.Also, watch it alone if you're uncomfortable showing your emotions in front of others.  It can bring even a hard-hearted SOB to tears, if he gives it a chance.Ms. Blethyn's performance is brilliant.  Immediately after seeing her, I knew she would receive an Oscar nomination.  Imagine a dancer trying to remain on the verge of dancing and falling down for a full hour...  never quite dancing, never quite falling down, but always on the edge.  This is what Brenda did with her almost-weeping, not-quite-weeping voice.  A real feat of acting.  Except for the actual breakdowns of sobbing, which were simultaneously hilarious and sorrowful, she maintained the wonderfully quirky character voice throughout.  (Her transformation throughout the picture was also very believable.)The telephone scene (I don't want to spoil it) was a masterpiece moment of emotion and perfect timing captured on film.  So much history and pain is evident in Blethyn's sobbing.  It is hard to imagine anyone else topping her.Also, see the note under Trivia about the two actresses meeting (unless you don't want to spoil the surprise).A fine film (there's a lot more to say) and the best cry I've had in years (only one better  Sling Blade).Rent this tonight, and watch it quietly, patiently, and alone...  "},{"Title":"One Of Better British Movies","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of better British movies I have watched these years, Secrets & Lies, despite not garnering Oscars, is no loser at all.In my opinion, this film had all the necessary ingredients to make a memorable film good script, fine direction and a score of praiseworthy performances. But its real strength, and potential weekness were in the same spot acting. There were one too many performances to ignore. Apparently, none of them, even those by Brenda Blethyn as the sturdy old good-for-nothing white mother or Mrianne Jean-Baptiste as the steady, young self-sufficient black daughter, managed to produce as thorough an effect as that of stand-alone performance by Frances McDormand in Fargo.A matter of fact When I watched Frgo, I appreciated McDormand's acting a lot, but I already knew about her having won an Oscar. When I watched Secrets & Lies, I told myself about Blethyn's performance this must be, at least, nominated for Oscar. And about the Baptist girl this must be Oscar-nominated too. I did not knew they were, nor that they lost or to whom.It is hard to compare greatness of these two films though. As regards the test of time, I think both films have (so far) come out with flying colors. If Fargo appears on AFI's list of 100 greatest American movies (at number 84), so does Secrets & Lies on BFI's similar list of British movies (at number 40).Somehow, this movie reminded me of another good one Guess Who Is Coming To Dinner?. Guess why? "},{"Title":"Half and Half . . .","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" . . . about equally scripted and improvised, Secrets and Lies is a risk-taking venture from Writer-director Mike Leigh.Well cast, with actors who give their all to living their roles, they create naturalistic scenes which are deeply felt.  The risk here is having scenes which may run on, begging for directorial tightening. Yet, for Leigh to interfere might be to defeat his stylistic intention.There's nothing lacking in the cast's effort to realize their characters and discover where their reactions may lead; certainly a ring of truth is created.  At the same time, this 142 minute production seems rather lengthy and drawn out (made more so by the BBC America telecast with commercial breaks). As intense and earnest as are these actors, Dick Pope's cinematography conversely seems dull and diffuse (particularly in long-range and medium shots) with quite drab color.  Too, Andrew Dickson's original score sounds very dreary; in fact, much of this production looked like it was shot with an ordinary videocamera. This is a film one may either like or dislike very much, with little middle ground.  Obviously it has its admirers, and they can appreciate a gritty working class Brit study on dysfunctional relations and efforts to heal family wounds.  "},{"Title":"Forwards and Backwards","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Secrets And Lies is the very dictionary definition of gritty British drama - it concerns the hidden fears, guilts, and secrets of seemingly ordinary people, and features a lot of crying and some fantastic acting.When Secrets And Lies begins we know nothing about the characters. Their pasts are slowly revealed through conversations and meetings between characters, as well as the smaller happenings and chance words, leading up to the obligatory revelation packed finale. It is these little things that Secrets And Lies does best - the scenes with Maurice taking photographs of a wide range of different people are far more interesting than the main story, as they give away the bare minimum of clues as to the life of these people. A couple have a minor argument, a woman talks about her accident, and then they're gone. You know nothing more about them, and it's left up to your imagination as to what happens to them next.Actually, the film itself was largely left up to the imaginations of the lead actors. They were all told the bare minimum about their characters as well, and were left to improvise much of the dialogue. Upon knowing this, the already impressive acting seems almost superhuman (especially the first meeting between Hortense and Cynthia). However, leaving the dialogue up to actors instead of scriptwriters may explain why the end of the film becomes rather predictable, if still quite powerful.Overall, I found Secrets And Lies to be an above average drama about, well, secrets and lies really, but nothing particularly special. However, if your own life has been affected by any of the issues involved - mainly adoption, infertility, teenage pregnancy - I have no doubt that this would be a far more moving film than it was to me.   "}{"Title":"Family drama where Leigh's technique of having his actors live out their roles for weeks beforehand really elevates the film","Date":"1 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" SECRETS AND LIES is a 1996 film by Mike Leigh that, appropriately enough, is concerned with the things that members of a family conceal from each other.Hortense (Marianne Jean-Baptiste), a black woman in London who has made a successful career as an optician, knew from a young age that she was adopted, but only after her adopted mother's death does she decide to look up her birth mother. Hortense is shocked to find that it is Cynthia (Brenda Blethyn), not just white but living in near-poverty and wallowing in regret. Cynthia has a tumultuous relationship with her acknowledged daughter Roxanne (Claire Rushbrook), who she fears to be repeating her own youthful mistakes. Cynthia also finds its hard to relate to her brother Maurice (Timothy Spall) and his cold wife Monica (Phyllis Logan), who have done well from a photo shop business. Hortense's entry into this family ultimately shatters their miserable status quo, but not without some heartbreak on the way.At this point in his career, Mike Leigh had perfected a filmmaking technique by which he had his actors live out their roles in everyday situations in the street for weeks before he started shooting. Consequently, by the time these actors were captured on film, they are totally convincing as their characters, and the characters are fleshed out through the little details that Leigh allowed to bring to them in improvising. The viewer feels that he knows these people deeply. Leigh also has a way of mixing pathos and humour. He not only will insert a comedic shot after a poignant one, but he'll then present ambiguous images where the viewer is unsure whether he should laugh or cry.While the acting and that dash of humour is quite powerful, there are elements that hold me back from universally praising this film. I've never been impressed by Leigh's use of music, which feels cheap, and only one shot (a deftly timed outdoor barbecue) was truly impressive in its mis-en-scène. And I find Leigh's previous film NAKED a slightly more successful application of his art. Still, the acting in SECRETS AND LIES is really something, and I would generally recommend this film. "},{"Title":"A lovely, harrowing experience this is.","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mike Leigh's my kind of filmmaker. This is a man who just loves people, especially the ones who have a lot of emotional baggage. But what separates the artists from the hacks - from stuff like Secrets & Lies from a soap, and the characters here could easily be that - is taste and talent. Leigh has good taste and he knows how to steer the ship when it comes to getting a group of actors together and getting them to reveal things through the characters. The love for these people comes through in the filmmaking, in the time given for things like a few good shots that lasts for minutes (not to where it becomes obvious, but that there's no *need* for a cut), and the deep range of the human experience compassion, envy, spite, forgiveness, love, hate (though how much these two last is hard to say), and understanding are among those in the film.It even could've been something close to a sappy/saccharine Guess Who's Coming to Dinner scenario, given that it's essentially about a black woman who discovers her biological mother is white. We never see the father - no need to, it was one of those bad moments in teenage years that isn't easily forgotten, but it's been put into a corner of memory for Brenda Blethyn's Cynthia at this point in her life in this story. But race isn't at all a big issue, and that's one of the first strong things to know about this film - at the same time, the filmmaker is aware of what he's putting out there, and hopes (or maybe knows) the audience will not only buy it, they'll look to what is much deeper the pain of loss of that mother/daughter connection, but all of that other history each character has. What I mean to say is that race is not unacknowledged here, but it's not the primary focus.What you get in Secrets & Lies is the story of people at work in their relationships and their everyday lives. The people in this film are relatively working class - perhaps doing a little better than not are Hortense, Marianne Jean-Baptiste, is an Optometrist, and Maurice, Timothy Spall, the brother of Cynthia, runs a photography studio - but we see that they have the work that they do and the people they're close to. That's it, and that's what counts for Leigh. But of course the title itself is not to be taken lightly; the structure is kind of built upon it, of what secrets/lies will be revealed through the due course of the film, even those I didn't think really that deeply about. And yet, as a great dramatist, it's right there in front of me, in the subtext of Leigh's scenario and in what the characters say as much as the up-front stuff (Maurice's marriage for example).There's time taken to set up the characters, and I loved that about the film as well. A soap might just dive right into the 'Who is your birth mother' plot-line, or maybe after so much uninteresting time setting up people, to the point of who cares. But we know who they are with just their behavior - Cynthia's fragile form, her daughter's 'Leave me alone mum!' manner, and of course Maurice, who as a photographer has to try to make people happy. Some of those montages, by the way, are simply delightful, full of the kind of empathy that can be seen from a filmmaker in just flashes even as they're just sketches of people, they feel fully realized, albeit once or twice as jokes. So that when Maurice does this, and then goes home to his wife and the OK-but-tense relationship there, we know where his head may be at. Also interesting is the fact that we aren't shown that Maurice and Cynthia are brothers right away - why are their stories connected, if at all - until he comes over to her house and that itself is a tremendous scene.This is the sort of cinematic experience that had me on the edge of my seat merely by the emotional stakes of those involved. How the family may or may not find out isn't as crucial as how it will affect them, how we might (or just will) be affected by them. Blethyn may be shedding a lot of tears here, but she's playing a damaged, depressed person, and it never comes into question why she acts the way she does, and Leigh, as with his other films (especially the even more uncomfortable-in-a-good-way Naked) never judges. Other characters may do that to others, especially as things rile high to the surface, but he won't. You want to know what happens to these people once the film ends, and Leigh leaves you wanting more, genuinely so, not in any cheap way. "},{"Title":"The truth","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very good movie I was expecting a spy movie but instead got a movie exploring prejudices, relationships and family bonds. The acting is superb by all involved, in fact you can easily forget you are watching a movie, everything is so real and natural. Too often you see movies about broken families as being the accepted norm, this movie goes that extra step and shows us in a very powerful way, how blood is thicker than water. A colored grieving young lady, manages to track down her biological mother after 26 years and in doing so manages to bring together several dysfunctional families and forces them to face and overcome their repressed prejudices. A powerful movie (not a fairy tale) full of human emotions and compassion, where love finally wins. (you'll need a box of tissues). "},{"Title":"Compelling","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This might very well be Mike leigh's most casually entertaining film. It builds up its characters so richly and it does a great job of starting at the exact point in their lives that it needs to in order to get its point across and for it to actually develop its story lines and characters well. All of the performances are lovely. Spall is second best in show here, a much quieter character and role but he brings so much compassion, empathy, good willingness to the character. Of course, the stand out of the film is Brenda Blethyn. At first glance it may look gimmicky and may seem sort of comedic, but he plays with so many other notes than that. Fantastic film and strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"Mike Leigh's Breakout Film from '96 Still Standing Tall","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After a couple of near-misses (Life Is Sweet, Naked), Mike Leigh's technique of workshopping a script until he's ready to roll the cameras really proved itself in this amazing film. Brenda Blethyn inhabits her character so thoroughly that her hyperemotional performance doesn't seem like a performance at all; Timothy Spall is hardly less impressive as the mournful Maurice (pron. Morris). The climactic sequence&#x97;in which a slightly awkward family get-together turns into a Chekhovian blowout&#x97;is incredibly powerful, though an earlier scene, in which BB's character bonds with her new mate from work (no spoilers here!) in a nondescript café, is a even more amazing display of naturalistic acting and filmmaking. Expert cinematography as usual; I actually liked the scenes that some Netflix reviewers found digressive or overextended, especially one in which Maurice confronts an overwrought visitor to his photo studio. That seems to be a big part of the film's message&#x97;life is messy and uncontrollable, and not everything moves in a straight line. Hope N'flix gets hold of a couple of DVDs before too long; we had to stay up till 3am last night watching this one on cable. "},{"Title":"just what it needs","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" it'f life and direct.- and every thing that comes after this sentence is to convince the computer to accept my review. The problem is that I don't have to say much more about the film. It speaks for itself; life and direct... beautiful acting raw in the making. pretty brilliant. there it is... and the rest is about filling the requirement of a stupid machine that does not understand the spice in the shortness of a review. But then again, this is worth some time and to fill a couple of lines is no bother to me. And so I do it. Well I try at least. The line just came to me, and I think it fits. Watching a on popcorn film and don't worrying about time is a compliment in itself. What else, what else... "},{"Title":"A touching story","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is about lies that family members keep to each other. We start with three lines.We have a low-class woman, named Cynthia. She has a daughter (Roxanne) whom she seems to have a problematic relation. There are discussions, mostly about her dating a boy.Then we have Hortense, which is a grown up woman and a very brave one, who gets interest in knowing who her real mother is (since her adoptive mother died recently). In her research in the registry she finds out that her mother is Cynthia. Then , Hortense meets Cynthia, and they start to get along. During the story of Cynthia and Hortense, there's Maurice and Monica who are a married couple. Maurice is Cynthia's brother who does photography for a living. He and Monica have problems too. There's a lot of tension in the air. It is maybe a sign that something needs to be told.The tension culminates in Roxanne's birthday party, where Hortense is invited too. Roxanne is told that Hortense is her sister. Cynthia argues with Monica reminding her of older problems with money. Cynthia implies with Monica because of her not giving a child to his brother. Maurice explodes and tells everyone that Monica is infertile. This film is all about how people try to hide their ghosts, maybe thinking that they won't be a mess. We live in a society that makes us close to ourselves, and hide our emotions and past events. We try everyday to forget about them. But they are there, alive and they tend to come back. I found this movie very emotional and moral at the same time. The actors were incredible,and there seemed to be a little of theatrical scenes, like the scene where Cynthia and Hortense take a tea. I loved the acting in this movie. Congratulations Mike Leigh. "},{"Title":"Secrets & Lies","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Arguably this is Mike Leigh's most popular film as it obtained 5 Oscar nominations (BEST ACTRESS, BEST DIRECTOR, BEST PICTURE, BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS and BEST ORIGINAL SCRIPT) and the Golden Palm in Cannes that year. I love Leigh's work very much and I previously watched VERA DRAKE (2004) and NAKED (1993), both brave and extraordinary. Still waiting to watch his recent pictures ANOTHER YEAR (2010) and HAPPY-GO-LUCKY (2008). The film itself burrows deep into the process of a successful black orphan looking for her birth mother (who is surprisingly set to be a low-class single white woman), arresting its audience with its slow pace of unraveling the back-story of their skin difference and their family. The warm-hearted tone is rare to behold in a Mike Leigh's film, and the happy ending ambiguously serves to leave its viewers a feel-good impression after the credits' rolling up. I must admit that it is a smart move, and expands itself to a wider demography. Surely Leigh's poignant portrayal of ordinary citizens is his trump card and renders a platform to allow the excellent cast to showcase their kaleidoscopic capabilities and leave its audience mesmerized. the Oscar-nominated mother-and-daughter pair (Brenda Blethyn and Marianne Jean-Baptiste) is deservingly splendid, especially Brenda, I rank her as my win that year, the strength and suffer of her character is so tangible when she is on screen; also Timothy Spall fully exposes his talent for his chubby but charming role as the younger brother of the mother.It is a wondrous work to make a film handling with a seemingly overreached story in such a fascinating way and even offer some strong aftertaste for us to ruminate, a bravo job! "},{"Title":"Scenes from a summer in mid-1990s London.","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" English writer/director Mike Leigh's most successful film. Back in 1996 it won the Palm D'Or and Best Actress prizes at the Cannes Film Festival and three BAFTAs (Best British Film, Best Actress and Best Screenplay).SECRETS AND LIES features Brenda Blethyn as Cynitha, a permanently emotional, low intellect and anxious single mother in her late 40s living with her 21 year old daughter Roxanne (Claire Rushbrook). Cynthia is down-trodden, smokes and bursts into tears a lot. This happens a great deal because her long lost daughter Hortense (Marianne Jean-Baptiste) appears from nowhere. She's a likable and easy-to-relate to 27-year old optician. Hortense's adoptive mother had died, so she set off to find her biological one. But Hortense is black and Cynthia is white.Leigh's strength is the roundedness of his characters. His film is a pithy observation of mid-1990s London life - part heartwarming and part tragic. In his previous film NAKED, London was shot in washed out and drab colours during winter. Here, everything seems bright and drenched in summer sunshine to reflect the more humane mood. The other principle character is Maurice (Timothy Spall), Cynthia's bearded bear of a brother who is a successful photographer. The best scenes are of his clients posing for the camera (including Alison Steadman - Leigh's ex-wife - as a dog owner). Other memorable moments include an encounter between Maurice and the person he bought the business from (Ron Peck), who is now an embittered drunk. Also, a lengthy unbroken single take of almost 8 minutes as Hortense and Cynthia meet for the first time at a café in Holborn.The interiors of the houses speak volumes about the social divisions in 1990s England. Maurice and his wife live in colour-scheme luxury (three bedrooms, a four-poster bed); Cynthia and her daughter live in a dilapidated hovel still with an outdoor toilet.The climax takes place at Maurice's house on Roxanne's 21st birthday. Cynthia reveals Hortense's identity to everyone. This is a shock for Roxanne and Maurice, then Maurice - previously calmly understated - makes a passionate speech about how much better everyone would be if they didn't keep secrets from each other. Hortense was determined to discover the truth and take the consequences. There is much tears and hugging before the happy resolution with Cynthia, Hortense and Roxanne all sitting together reconciled in Cynthia's back yard.The details of the acting, camera work and art direction in this film demand a second viewing for full appreciation of its excellence. "},{"Title":"Leigh at his best?","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Secrets & Lies is the cold and sober truth after the relative joviality of Leigh's Life Is Sweet. The hangover, the wall of reality that hits you, in slowed down time. Not the same story or the same characters, of course. It's a slow absorbed process as each set of characters slowly and naturally unravel their stories. Through this somewhat sombre piece lie half a dozen or so people who possibly portray a more typical array of people in mid 90's London than usual, with some roles reversed from the stereotype.Hence the pivotal story of a young black professional woman seeking her blood mother after the death of her adoptive one. Brenda Blethin, giving a performance that always gives me a case of swallowing a lot - in both utter admiration and tingling connectivity as the white mother of her and her other white daughter, who happens to live awkwardly with her. Cynthia (Blethin) warms us with her typical East London hospitality and open-mindedness after the initial shock as the new mother and daughter explore each other's lives. Tim Spall, meanwhile, in complete contrast to his manic and accident prone 'restaurateur' in Life Is Sweet is a successful High Street photographer, methodically and professionally supporting his high- spending wife and their sumptuous suburban Lifestyle home. The reason for their emotional gap is brought to the fore as the fireworks go off over a family birthday barbecue. His relationship towards his sister Cynthia takes on a fresh but still emotionally distant renewal in the film.When I attended a scriptwriting course, I always wanted to add in each intonation, each exclamation mark. We were told that it's the actors and their interpretation that shape and form a script. If there was ever an advocate of this principle it is Mike Leigh. He is renowned for this and is often what film people talk of first when his name is mentioned. These are real people forming their own characters around a basic storyline and so they live and breath as them. "}{"Title":"Emotional and Engaging","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A successful young black woman learns that the woman who gave her up for adoption is a working class white woman. While it takes a while to get going and it turns melodramatic at times, this comedy-drama is quite engaging. Leigh uses long takes for many of his scenes, letting the emotions build and adding a sense of realism to the interactions. He also elicits marvelous performances from his entire cast, who apparently were encouraged to improvise. Blethyn is superb as a woman with self-esteem issues who often carries on like a blithering idiot. Spall is likable as her supportive brother. Jean-Baptiste hits the right notes as the woman who seeks out her birth mother. "},{"Title":"Let The Beans Start Spilling","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Secrets and Lies is the suitable title for this movie as a dysfunctional family is about to have numerous secrets revealed to them. The secrets all comes alive when a black optometrist Hortense (Marianne Jean-Baptiste) pays a visit to her biological mother after her parents passed on. A social worker recommended not to seek out her real parents, but Hortense being passive of the warning decides to fulfill her search. Hortense phones her birth mother Cynthia (Brenda Blethyn), a frustrated factory worker who lives with her 20 year old daughter Roxanne (Claire Rushbrook). After a series of disastrous phone calls, they finally get to to meet each other, much to the doubt in Cynthia's mind that she has a black daughter. And then suddenly, Cynthia starts to recall an event that happened to her a long time ago. We the audience are manipulated to believe that she was raped, but that was never really revealed. That's the uniqueness of director Mike Leigh's characters. They seem to have dark pasts that are really never touched. Another nice plus is that there is no racial issues between Hortense and her newly acquainted disjointed family. With the only exception being the doubt of Cynthia having a black daughter.As we follow Hortense on her journey, we also take focus on Cynthia's younger brother, Maurice (Timothy Spall) who's a successful photographer by profession. The movie itself isn't all drama and seriousness, there's plenty of humor added to the fray as well. One of the funnier moments is when Maurice is taking pictures of different people. The people behind those photographs gives you that felling of how they wish to be represented. Maurice has been estranged from his sister for quite a long time, mainly due to his cold, self-important wife Monica (Phyllis Logan). The pivotal moments happen when Hortense is invited to a barbecue and Cynthia decides to open up to the family revealing that Hortense is her daughter. Roxanne becomes distraught, Cynthia get emotional, and Maurice is at a loss of words. The dialogue of the movie title itself where the family is torn apart by the spilling of the beans doesn't offer much for the audience to draw up their own conclusions, but the overdone dialogue can be forgiven thanks mainly due to these earth-shattering revelations. With a group of lesser known performers, this movie would've been a dud. Sure the initiative in this movie was a bit painful to watch. The bombs that drop look like they're almost ready to explode. And we sympathize with Hortense by throwing the towel at her at what she's getting herself into. Bleak as the film might be, it still inspires you take take a closer look at your family and to say to yourself, that you are all very lucky. Every performer does an incredible performance with top honors to Blethyn, this movie will stick to your ribs for a long time to come. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Drama and Marvellous Comedy","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Outstanding drama and marvellous comedy is this 1996 Cannes winner from Mike Leigh. Writer/director Leigh strikes our funny bones and our heart strings simultaneously with his observant, true to life screenplay and his biting, sharp dialogue. Leigh's control is balanced and purposeful throughout.The other side of this fantastic drama is the superlative acting from a talented array of British thesps. Leading the way is an incredible Brenda Blethyn as the highly strung Cynthia Purley. Blethyn blows us away as the woman whose immense capacity for love is finally received openly by a long lost daughter who comes into her life suddenly, giving Cynthia some of the unconditional love her soul is crying out for. As said daughter Hortense, Marianne Jean-Baptiste gives a quietly strong turn as the young woman whose grief for her lost adoptive mother sees her searching out her natural mum to fill the void. Claire Rushbrook makes a strong impression as Cynthia's acknowledged daughter Roxanne, an awfully sour girl who harbours resentment toward her mother for not providing for her needs, and for the way her own life has turned out. Timothy Spall gives a passionate performance as Cynthia's brother Maurice, a man who struggles in vain to deal with his own emotions, his wife's desperate secret and his attempts to make the three most important people in his life happy. Phyllis Logan's turn as his wife Monica shows us a frustrated, angry woman who can't understand why life is so ironically cruel. In solid support are Elizabeth Barrington as Jane, Maurice's work assistant, and Lee Ross as Paul, Roxanne's nervous scaffolding bloke.Music from Andrew Dickson is strong and Jon Gregory's editing is timely. One of the best, down to earth dramas I have seen in a long time.Monday, August 18, 1997 - Hoyts CroydonEven though this second viewing was on a tiny 30cm t.v., Secrets and Lies was still for me a strong, emotional, superbly acted drama concerning the terribly mixed up lives of an average family.Writer-director Mike Leigh captures the human condition astutely as his players lead lives filled with deceit and dark secrets. Unable to face their own failures and frailty, they excuse their actions as trying to do the right thing.Brenda Blethyn is just awesome as the single mum with more skeletons in her closet than a paleontologist. Her own struggle with a meaningless existence and a deteriorating relationship with her daughter is poignantly played out by this marvellous actress. Perhaps the strongest performance by a female lead I have ever seen. Also fantastic are Timothy Spall as photographer Maurice, a man caught between the three loves of his life, Phyllis Logan, who gives a beautifully measured turn as the wife whose bitterness at her lot has soured her outlook on life, and Claire Rushbrook as the daughter who cannot understand her hopeless, interfering mother. Great too is Marianne Jean-Baptiste as the young woman whose revelation turns the whole family upside down. Support comes from Elizabeth Barrington and Lee Ross.I cannot recommend this film highly enough.Friday, July 24, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"An emotional drama-spoiler","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Secrets & Lies is a realism drama which shows the affects secrets and lies have on Brenda Blethyn Rose Purley's (Brenda Blethyn) life and the lives connected to her.  Mike Leigh (Director) explorers the emotions and decision the character's make as a result of these deceptions.The Secrets begin to unfold when an adopted black woman named Marianne Cumberbatch (Marianne Jean-Baptiste) in London, searches for her natural birth mother named Cynthia Rose Purley, played by Brenda Blethyn (won the best actress award at Cannes for this performance).  Marianne not only discovers her natural birth mother, she discovers her true racial characteristics.  The lies start to thicken when Brenda Blethyn decide not to tell her family of the forgotten child she had many years ago.  Brenda Blethyn and Marianne do begin a relationship which gives Brenda Blethyn the courage to peel away layers of hidden shame, fears, Secrets & Lies.  Only to find out she is not the only one in the family that has been keeping Secrets & Lies.The emotions Brenda Blethyn feels about herself; entrapment, low self esteem, disrespect and being ashame of herself and what her life has became, mirror how her youngest daughter Roxanne (played by Claire Rushbrook)feel about Brenda Blethyn throughout the film.  For example Brenda Blethyn argues with Claire Rushbrook.  Claire Rushbrook screams some very disrespectful words to her mother then the scene cross cut to Claire Rushbrook being comforted by the sexual satisfaction of her boyfriend while Brenda Blethyn was left alone and crying.By Claire Rushbrook displaying her sexual aggressions very freely this was a contradiction on the unspoken sexual horrors and feelings of entrapment and confinement Brenda Blethyn must have encountered resulting in her unwanted pregnancy.  The War Zone is another realism film that touches on the unspoken horrors of sexuality and how it destroys the emotional stability of a human being for years to come.Mike Leigh the director of this film used a variety of techniques; shots, angels and lighting to capture the reaction and emotion he wants out of the audience.  Mike took me on a photography journey within the first 60 seconds of the film.  Mike let the viewer get just close enough to the characters at Maurice Purley's (Timothy Spall), photo session to start looking for a story in each person.  Timothy Spall (who plays Brenda Blethyn's brother) photography shot's consist of; up close but wide shots to establish a personal visual contact.  Mike Leigh uses the tight frame, long shot for the emotion of fear and pain.  For example the audience is drawn into Brenda Blethyn's emotions when she receives her first phone call from her forgotten child, Marianne.  The camera is fixed on the long narrow hallway while Brenda Blethyn is pacing back and forth, in and out of the camera's range. The freedom Brenda Blethyn starts to feel when she's facing her life's truth, is showed by Mike changing the shots of the film close,restricted shots to wide angle shots that include the world around her.The emotions and decision the character's have as a result of Brenda Blethyn's Secrets & Lies soon do not compare to the whole family's Secrets & Lies.  But it soon ends on a high note and a wide full family shot. "},{"Title":"Great Acting-Great Film","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved Secrets and Lies.    I found it to be a very thought-provoking film that touched my heart.  Brenda Blethyn is so good in her roll -- so believable.  I liked her better in this film than the one she was in with the girl who sang like Judy Garland.  (I've forgotten its title)The only thing I find to criticize in this film is the fact  that the actors had such strong British accents that I found them sometimes hard to understand.  Those who like a strong drama should see this one at least once--twice is better!  "},{"Title":"Truth is a dangerous proposition","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Truth is dangerous.  Take the question  Where do people really live their lives?  Are we the people we present to others, or the frail, imperfect ones we know ourselves to be?  Which do we present to God and how do we perceive others -- those whose thoughts and hearts are hidden from us? Deitrich Bonhoeffer expressed these sentiments in his moving poem, Who Am I? (quoted in part)Who am I? They often tell me I used to speak to my warders freely and friendly and clearly, as though it were mine to command.Who am I? They also tell me I bore the days of misfortune equably, smilingly, proudly like one accustomed to win.Am I then really that which other men tell of? Or am I only what I myself know of myself? Restless and longing and sick, like a bird in a cage, struggling for breath, as though hands were compressing my throat, yearning for colors, for flowers, for the voices of birds, thirsting for words of kindness, for neighborliness, tossing in expectation of great events, powerlessly trembling for friends at an infinite distance, weary and empty at praying, at thinking, at making, faint, and ready to say farewell to it all.This movie is perhaps one of the best character-driven movies in recent memory.  In it we meet a menagerie of ordinary people, whose ordinary hurts, pains, joys and struggles turn out to be quite extraordinary.  This movie shows that our best attempts to label and pigeon-hole other people are thwarted by the simple fact that each human being, no matter how ordinary, or seemingly unlovable, is significant.  But, does it answer the question of why those lives might be significant?Secrets & Lies tells many storys, but focuses on the story of a middle-aged woman, bitter, alone and burdened, unliked by her own family.  She is contacted by the daughter she put up for adoption years ago, and the wealthy son she hasn't seen in a few years -- and is taken on a journey she never would have chosen - one in which she confronts the scandalous idea that she might just be loved and significant after all.  Truth is a risky proposition.  Brenda Blethyn's universally-acclaimed performance in this role is one for the record books. "},{"Title":"Social stigmas a thing of the past","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Where I come from, miscegenation is considered a  moral outrage, but if you watched most movies and  television today, you would think most Americans are  pretty hip about it, the way they seem to be about  abortion and premarital sex and alternative  lifestyles.  So I can understand Cynthia Purley's  shock and secretiveness about giving birth to Baby  Elizabeth, even when the people around her seem more  than likely to accept the new addition to the  family.  But I think that if Cynthia hadn't picked  such an obtrusive time to spring the surprise on  everyone, I'm not sure this movie would have been  quite so dramatic.  As good as Brenda Blethyn is  (She's a whimperer throughout, but she also has the  funniest moments in the picture.), I think the  really impressive performance is from Marianne  Jean-Baptiste as the ultimate in birthday surprises.  She plays a woman who is forced by her upbringing  and temperament to seek out an unlikely reunion and  try to manage it with tact and grace.I don't know if I agree with director Mike Leigh's  notion that honesty is always the best policy.  I  think on the issue of miscegenation and extramarital pregnancy, the reason why the movie feels like such  a cheat is because who but the people I live near  regard these as social stigmas anymore?  It's  ridiculous to keep such things secret or lie about  them and get all twisted up inside over the  dishonesty.  People who are moved by this picture  may be able to hail it for its depth, but how deep  can it be, if the solution to the problem is so  simple?  It doesn't help for Leigh to be turning  into Rodney King, and it's too easy to encourage  people to get along, when deep down inside, some of  us suspect the truth--that we really don't. "},{"Title":"The lies of everyday life","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was shocked to read Jeremy Bargers description of this amazing film as overrated. Mike Leigh has a uniquely British style that touches on the sublime. Secrets and Lies is one of the best films of the 90`s, and deservedly was recognised by the Oscar panel.This sensitive exploration of class divisions and the poisonous nature of secrets was incredibly touching. In this film, Leigh fully appreciates the class differences that (still) haunt British society, without resorting to cheap ideological shots. This is a film not about adoption, but class.All characters have flaws, yet are fundamentally decent people trapped by expectations and upbringing. Leighs empathy for the characters shine through every scene; he refuses to make judgements.If you like warm films, that nevertheless refuse to give cheap responses to real human emotions and problems, then Secrets... is perfect. See in on TV, video, or satellite, but see it.   "},{"Title":"Limited, but worth watching.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent title for an adoption movie. But, I think they were a little confused about where the secrets and lying are most perpetrated. Most mothers are not seeking protection from their lost children. This was the first movie I'd ever seen that explored adoption from a mother's perspective. I would not want viewers to think that she is representative of us. It is about adoption and that particular mother character, but it is not definitive of the entire experience of mothers who lose their children. Nor does this movie represent the entire adoption experience of adoptees either. I was not that impressed with it.  "},{"Title":"A tour de force with Brenda Blethyn stealing the show","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I read the other reviews for Secrets and Lies posted here I realised almost all the other adverse comments had one thing in common - they were from Americans.  It really is a shame that Hollywood has transformed film making into a commodity, so much so that when film makers dare to be different, it is not seen as refreshing but as deviating from the norm and so lacking in merit.  All I can say is that those who did not like this film, display their narrow horizons rather than a discerning ability to judge films.  Not everything in life should be viewed through a US-centric perspective.  If you do, the class and quality of films such as S&L will inevitably be lost on you.The main issue with S&L is that there is no wham bam screen play - it is essentially a rather 'ordinary' story with 'ordinary' characters.  What carries the film is sublime acting and superb interplay/dynamic between these characters.  Nobody is shot or killed, almost non-existent sex and sentimentality is kept to a minimum - these are stock Hollywood ingredients so if you can't enjoy a film without these then this is not for you.  If however you can think out of your box, empathise with the characters (ignoring for a moment that the London setting might be a million miles away from you), relate to an essentially everyday themes delivered with acute and perceptive observation, then you will surely warm to this film and rate it as highly as it deserves to be. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece of improvisation","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In this wrenching, brilliant piece of improvisation, all the actors are thoroughly, even scarily convincing. Above this brilliant ensemble, Brenda Blethyn soars, giving perhaps the finest performance I've ever seen in a film. "},{"Title":"A touching story overwhelmed with too many unhappy moments","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is unusual for me to see a film that has received so much critical and viewer praise and feel at times very uncomfortable. The central story of Cynthia's relationship with her daughter and brother and later a second unknown daughter is very real. Cynthia's sad life is touching but the film adds too many unhappy moments. The brother's wife is in pain and is angry. The brother's former boss is a bitter unemployed alcoholic. These and other depressing events do not provide contrast to Cynthia's hopelessness and made it often too intense for me. Still this is a film worth seeing if you don't mind heavy working class British accents and appreciate seeing people work through deception and accusations to forgiveness.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved every minute of this movie. This is one of my all time favorite movies. Very rarely do I see a movie twice. This movie I saw three times. All three times I saw this movie at the Dream Theater in Monterey. It's a great place to watch a movie. "},{"Title":"Real, beautiful, and raw...spectacular acting.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Some of the most spectacular acting that I have ever seen.  It made me cry, which is rare.  Real, beautiful, and powerful. "},{"Title":"Sure, Jeremy -- It's no ID4!","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'd just like to make a point For a refreshing perspective on the comments of Jeremy Barger, who has panned this movie (see his comments on this page), check out his perspective on Independence Day. Yep, Jeremy, if you really think ID4 is a great movie, you're not going to get Secrets and Lies. Which is not to say that S&L is a great film, either -- it isn't, although it has its merits, among them a refreshingly human script. But no big bang-bang good-guy bad-guy here, kimosabe. Me suggest you stick to movie with lotsa bang bang. "},{"Title":"One of the best character-driven movies of them all!","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The best character-acting I have seen in years!  Although the script is a tad stodgy in a couple of scenes, see this movie!  Never once did I feel like I was watching actors.  The story is realistic, and the way the script, director, and especially the actors draw you into it is amazing.  This is definitely on my to buy list. "},{"Title":"A special place in my movie collection","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Secrets & Lies deserve a special place in my collection of almost 900 movies. It's in my top ten. "},{"Title":"Jeremy Barger, have you ever seen movies before?","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen many Mike Leigh's films and they are very strong, conscious, deeply and when somebody comes near one must knows how Leigh propose life... Secrets and lies explore the deep human condition about women situation, how the socety can hit and wound and how those women can face it. The brother is the kind of man nobody finds easy in this actual moment and the photography is the way to go to the human soul if somebody can not see it, I must say this person is not intelligent at all so take a good course about life and movies and try to see Secrets and Lies in a few years "},{"Title":"Should be emotional, but instead is boring and irritating","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Should be emotional, but instead is boring and irritating.The central plot of Secrets and Lies had heaps of potential a goes in search of and is reunited with her birth mother. That in itself would make for a great character-driven, emotional movie. Throw in the intrigue that the daughter is mixed-race/black and the mother is white and it adds even more potential. Unfortunately, the finished product doesn't live up to this potential. It drags along throughout and never gets going. Mike Leigh likes to start his movies slowly and build momentum, but this doesn't even get out of first gear. Plus, just when you thought the movie was already too long, you have random, pointless scenes that add nothing to the movie, eg the when the previous owner of the photography studio comes back.Throw into the mix the fact that Brenda Blethyn's character, Cynthia, has to be one of the more irritating characters in movie history constantly whining, screeching and nagging, interspersed with random crying. Unfortunately, she is in just about every scene, so it's like constant nails-across-a-chalkboard, all through the movie. The remainder of the cast don't do much to help the movie, either. Timothy Spall and Phyllis Logan are incredibly dull, or, at least, the characters they played were.There are some good moments, however. Marianne Jean-Baptiste gives a great performance as Hortense. I found her character the only likable and engaging one in the entire movie.The photography scenes in the studio were quite funny and/or sweet too. "},{"Title":"Story of people with a lot of shortcomings, still being great people.","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I truly love this film. The story is simple. A woman goes to look for her biological mother and finds her. After some hesitations the daughter is being introduced to the rest of the family. After the shock it all comes down perfectly. The great thing about the movie is that like in most English movies there are just ordinary people in it, with many shortcomings, but you will start to feel love for them anyway. Because they are so much themselves. There are some very difficult matters in the movie that could have easily lead to an unhappy ending. But although the mother is white and the daughter is black and probably the result of a rape and although the relationship between the other daughter and the mother is far from perfect so the warm welcome for the new daughter must have brought strong feelings of jealousy, it all comes down naturally. As it should. Because life is too short to fill it with bad feelings. And the movie learns that it is easy to except other peoples shortcomings ones you excepted your own.  "}{"Title":"Your next door drama..","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At times while watching you wonder whether Leigh is serious about this attempt..Did he really try  to create a moving film and lead the viewer to catharsis? The feeling conveyed by this film is a blend of drama and comedy.I mean at some scenes while a dramatic music is accompanying the plot centered around the life of the unmarried english middleaged Cynthia ,her behavior just makes you wanna laugh..Because she is so convincingly naive and simple that even  her unhappiness seams comic.Her smooth manered brother Maurice is also enjoyable as the photographer who knows his job well but lives an unfullfiled life with a wife he loves but without a child.Does it sound like a brtittish  soap opera?More so if you knew the rest of the plot and the simplicity of the messages conveyed through it.One obvious being that people need love and that love is a solution to human lonliness..Except the dialogue is not wooden the acting is very good the picture is cinematic and so on..But the question remainsIs this atempt a serious one?Is it a drama or a comedy? Well it doesn't matter...Either by chance or due to  a deeper approach the blend works..Because life is neither serious nor funny nor simple nor complex ,or rather is all that .The film may not be an unforgetable  or exactly exiting cinematic experience.But it is not a silly melodrama that forces pitty emotions out of you either.It is  enjoyable and satisfying because you can identify with the characters  and their reactions as human biological units that don't always understand their feelings and emotions or their purpose but experience them all the same and are ruled by them..7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Magnificent, best British tradition of theatre-cinema","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unfortunately many super-productions make such a lot of noise when they are launched, the razzmatazz strategically prepared by the Hollywood Bombardment Department tends to leave somewhat in the shadow more meritous productions. I mean, you compare all the noise made when Cameron's 'Titanic' was launched, a superblockbuster if ever there was one, with what happens for far worthier, real, honest films, such that it is hardly surprising that at times a real gem gets past you unnoticed and you do not catch up with it until it appears on TV. This is most certainly the case with Mike Leigh's 'Secrets and Lies', the British version of that famous con job 'American Beauty'. Leigh's film is superior in all aspects &#150; better dialogues, better interpretations, far more natural, a real honest beauty&#133;&#133;&#133;.It is not that Mike Leigh sets out to be anti-Hollywood or anti-anything. It is just that his concepts are so different. Brought up on the bread and butter of sociological orientated material, emanating especially from the live theatre when it was in its prime in the 50s and 60s, Leigh has more than enough material on which to build real-life dramas without the ostentatiousness so pervasive in much of the US merry-go-round money-making multi-billion dollar movie industry. Mike Leigh comes from the BBC; the hallmark is there; so is the profundity and realism so beloved of serious drama-writers. So it is not coincidence that a goodly part of his cast in 'Secrets and Lies' started out in live theatre up and down the whole length and breadth of those little islands called Great Britain.So it is good to see that something decent can still come out of those masquerading isles; I say 'masquerading' as many of the real human values have fallen into disuse, producing the famous football hooligans, unscrupulous politicians of very doubtful origin, and a confused society still in the throes of waking up to the fact that Great Britain is nothing of the kind and it no longer has power based on colonial possessions. However, now and again, something really fine comes out of the UK, in spite of the lousy drivel and stupidity published every day in its most popular daily tabloids, proving that there are more than enough people of extraordinarily low intellectual level populating those isles.But we must never forget that those isles have produced some of the best literature in the world, including novels and theatre, and from this it is but a short step to converting this talent into cinematographic material. Mike Leigh takes that step, but majestically, with inspiration which is just pure genius. With a handful of almost unknown actors he carefully sculpts cinema which is heavily laden with the necessary ingredients of human life, never exaggerating for the sake of easy consumption at the box-office. No, his mind is not there; the same as for any good novelist or dramatist creating his work it is inspiration on clear ideas of moral issues which are being used to build up the piece. Almost like an artesanal hand-crafted pair of shoes, as against the mass-production techniques employed for making anything which is primarily for fast consumption.Brenda Blethyn is fabulous; her playing of the rôle is superb it is all there &#150; human sentiments from a working class level, not the pseudoism of put-on abusive feelings, arbitrarily yanked out of heaving bosoms at the behest of the director; here is the actress coming out of the roots of the earth, producing deep fierce illogical sensations which grasp at feeble straws, surging from lower cultural concepts, from the grass-roots of generations of misunderstood working classes. Her portrayal of a cheated, resentful, lonely woman who loved and hates to hate, confused even by her own doings, is just about the most perfect performance I have ever seen by any actress anywhere. At loggerheads with a disgruntled daughter (Claire Rushbrook) and hardly on good terms with her younger brother and his wife (Timothy Spall and Phyllis Logan), she is suddenly confronted by a young coloured woman (Marianne Jean-Baptiste) who claims to be &#150; and is &#150; her daughter, given away for adoption at birth.The interaction between the main characters is impressive; never overstated but tightly held under control, such that the credibility is so much more real. The sheer geniousness of the piece is not limited to the main story itself Leigh's magic produces some wonderful scenes, which are extremely short, when the photographer (Spall) is taking pictures of his customers each one is a micro-story in itself, including the dogs and cats!There is so much careful detail the art of licking and closing an envelope; hurriedly closing the plastic seats of the lavatories whilst showing off her house&#133;&#133;..There is little music, but what there is is perfectly toned and tuned to the situations. I just cannot find any fault in this magnificent film. It is obviously for an audience that is scintillated by human drama in its purest form, preferably with good grounding in live theatre techniques. "},{"Title":"secrets beyond the door","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For a while there, we'd sort of considered Mike Leigh's movies slow, but Secrets & Lies showed him to be a good director. It portrays a family in England who all of a sudden start finding out various things about each other, some of which shock them royally! I'd never heard of Brenda Blethyn before this movie came out, but she showed herself to be a great actress here, and did again in Saving Grace.I guess that the point is that we've all got a few skeletons in our closet. This movie takes a great look at such issues. Also starring Timothy Spall, Phyllis Logan, Claire Rushbrook and Marianne Jean-Baptiste (whom you may remember from The Cell). "},{"Title":"A family in denial torn apart from unspoken truths","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Secrets and Lies has perhaps the worst musical soundtrack and orchestration of any movie ever made. That is the movie's worst failing.The movie succeeds brilliantly in an outstanding, devastatingly emotional tour-de-force acting performance by Brenda Blethyn, perhaps one of the 5 most brilliant pieces of acting I've ever seen. The emotional climax is one that only people whose hearts have been hardened beyond redemption will able to control their tear ducts. If your heart is still intact, get out the tissues. If you can ignore the music, you'll watch a wonderful, brilliant film that SHOULD have won the Academy Award for Best Picture of 1996. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I hoped for.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  **** = A masterpiece to be recorded in the books and never forgotten***1/2 = A classic in time; simply a must see*** = A solid, worth-while, very entertaining piece**1/2 = A good movie, but there are some uneven elements or noticeable flaws** = May still be considered good in areas, but this work has either serious issues or is restrained by inevitable elements deemed inescapable (e.g., genre)*1/2 = Mostly a heap of nothing sparked by mildly worthwhile momentsBOMB = Not of a viewable quality- Secrets & Lies = ***- Rated R (for language and thematic elements, including some sexual material)<MINOR SPOILERS>Extremely original, interesting film with intense emotional scenes for sentiment lovers.  A young black optometrist hunts down her birth mother to discover a poor white woman with an unstable lifestyle.  Along the way, she meets her family for the first time.Brenda Blethyn's performance, as always, is extremely strong and intense, while supporting cast members put in above average takes aswell.  The only thing I guess really didn't hit me so well with this movie was the climax.  I wasn't so keen on the emotional ending with the entire family.  I thought it should have been a one-on-one type thing with Blethyn and her daughter.  But if the audience wrote the movie, it wouldn't be very interesting, now would it? "},{"Title":"Secrets & Lies","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the career of Oscar BAFTA nominated director Mike Leigh (Abigail's Party, Vera Drake, Another Year) this was the film that became his biggest box office hit, it features in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I was definitely going to watch it. Basically Hortense Cumberbatch (Broadchurch's Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Marianne Jean-Baptiste) is a black middle class woman who works as an optometrist in London, she was adopted as a child and has chosen to trace her family history and find her birth mother, she is warned about what could happen when trying to contact lost relatives, but she continues her investigation. Cynthia Rose Purley (BAFTA and Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Brenda Blethyn) is a white working class woman who lives with her daughter Roxanne (Carrie & Barry's Claire Rushbrook), who works as a street cleaner, and despite an awkward relationship often visits her brother Maurice (BAFTA nominated Timothy Spall), who works as a photographer and lives with his wife Monica (Downton Abbey's Phyllis Logan). Hortense is baffled to learn that her birth mother is a white woman, it is Cynthia, she meanwhile has had an argument with Maurice, once he has left Hortense rings Cynthia and asks to speak to Cynthia Rose Purley, referring to baby Elizabeth Purley, born in 1968, Cynthia is shocked to realise she is talking to her long- lost daughter. Cynthia initially hangs up the phone, but Hortense calls back and is determined to find out more about her background, she convinces Cynthia to meet her outside a tube station, they go for a cup of tea, looking at documents Hortense shows her Cynthia feels ashamed, and cannot talk about the birth father. After a while Cynthia and Hortense have formed a friendship, Roxanne notices her meeting a black woman often, but Cynthia is secretive about who she is, she mentions the birthday party for Roxanne to her and invites her, with Maurice's permission accepted, despite thinking it will be awkward Hortense agrees. The day of the birthday barbecue arrives, Hortense posing as a work colleague, Monica makes everyone feel welcome, Cynthia makes open comments about Monica making improvements on the house rather than giving Maurice a child, and Maurice suggests to Roxanne going to college, she does not take this seriously, and while Maurice prepares the food Hortense answers questions from the guests about her career and future. Roxanne blows out her birthday candles, Cynthia becomes exceptionally nervous, she lets slip that Hortense is her daughter, everyone dismisses this as a drunken comment, but she insists it is true, and Roxanne walks out angry and horrified at her mother, Maurice finds her at a bus stop and calms her down. Maurice convincer her to return and talk to Cynthia, who apologises profusely, she explains she became pregnant at fifteen and the father sent Hortense away for adoption, she never expected Hortense to come back. In the heat of the moment Cynthia accuses Monica of being selfish, Maurice reveals that she is physically incapable of having children, they have gone to various doctors and therapies in the past, but she cannot conceive a child, he then loses his temper, stating he tries to make people happy and cannot take it anymore. Hortense has sat back and watched these secrets and lies unfold, Maurice stops her from leaving, he admires her for courage trying to find her own past, he does know who her father is, but will not reveal it either, Cynthia then explains to Roxanne that her father was an American medical student who disappeared following a holiday to Benidorm. In the end a while has passed and things have calmed down, Hortense is free to visit Cynthia and Roxanne at their home, Hortense says she always wanted a sister, Roxanne says that she would be happy to introduce her to people as her half-sister, in spite of the long explanation that comes with it, and the three of them gather at Cynthia's for a cup of tea. Also starring Elizabeth Berrington as Jane, The Bill's Michele Austin as Dionne, EastEnders' Lee Ross as Paul, Lesley Manville as Social Worker, Ron Cook as Stuart, Bridget Jones's Diary's Emma Amos as Girl with Scar, The Bill's Brian Bovell as Hortense's Brother, Trevor Laird as Hortense's Brother, EastEnders' Clare Perkins as Hortense's Sister-in-Law, Elias Perkins McCook as Hortense's Nephew, Big Brother's Keylee Jade Shabby Flanders as Girl in Optician's, EastEnders' Nitin Ganatra as Potential Husband, EastEnders' Stephen Churchett as Man in Suit, Coronation Street's David Neilson as Man in Suit, Abigail's Party's Alison Steadman as Dog Owner, The Royle Family's Liz Smith as Cat Owner, Calendar Girls' Angela Curran as Little Boy's Mother, Philip Davis as Man in Suit and Another Year's Ruth Sheen as Laughing Woman. Blethyn is fantastic as the emotional white woman who's past comes back to haunt her, Jean- Baptiste is great as the black woman longing to find out about herself, and Spall and Rushbrook give impressive supporting performances. The storyline of the black woman finding her white birth mother is interesting, the highlight is them talking in the café, and the other secrets and lies from other characters are good as well, this is essentially a razor-sharp observation of life in suburbia, full of melancholy, it is more about the characters interactions than the storyline, overall it is a must see British drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Picture and Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen for Mike Leigh, it won the BAFTAs for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Original Screenplay, and it was nominated for Best Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"so where is the mixed race child?","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was really looking fwd to watching this movie because it seemed interesting and got good reviews. But are we really going to act like this clearly black woman was a product of a white mother and black man? I stopped near the beginning so perhaps there's a part in the end where it exposes this blatant inaccuracy but this is supposed to be a drama type of movie and it wants me to believe in an unrealistic existence. Why couldn't they hire a mixed race person? It would be one thing to add shock by having someone of a darker complexion but this actress is clearly black. Maybe white ppl think we all look the same but this casing director should be fired. It threw the entire movie off. "},{"Title":"One of Mike Leigh's Best","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Excellent Mike Leigh film about a working-class woman (Brenda Blethyn) in an unhappy relationship with her own daughter who's surprised when another daughter (Marianne Jean-Baptiste), the product of an affair with a black man and who she gave up for adoption, seeks her out. Though the abandoned daughter is part black, Secrets and Lies isn't primarily a movie about race. Instead, it's a movie about mothers and daughters, and the good and bad qualities each can bring out in the other. Blethyn's character quickly forms a closer bond with the newly-discovered daughter, a successful and articulate optometrist, than she has with the one she's raised, a sullen and surly nightmare, much to that daughter's anger and envy. The movie has that fly-on-the-wall quality common to Leigh's films; we don't feel like we're watching actors play parts, so completely does the cast he assembles here inhabit their characters.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Hey mettled from Portland, you sound exactly like Roger Ebert!","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just noticed that Mettled's review is taken from Roger Ebert's. I'm sure Mr. Ebert doesn't mind but still, plagiarism is a crime. (compare http//rogerebert.suntimes.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article? AID=/19961025/REVIEWS/610250307/1023 with So Brilliant, 27 March 2004 Author mettled from Portland, OR - I wish the USA had a director like Mike Leigh. His movies are amazing. Secrets & Lies traces the pain we often hold inside along with our secrets and the catharsis that can come by revealing them. Lives of quiet desperation within a family gradually find healing in this movie about adoption, children and the walls we build around ourselves for protection. There is a poignant metaphor in the brother Morris' career as a photographer, as his subjects attempt to cover the stories in their faces long enough to smile for the camera. This is an intense movie but it is not without beauty and hope.) "},{"Title":"One of my most memorable British films, a very fine, witty, and funny family drama.","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is interesting how American films look American and British films look British. Secrets and Lies is a good example of this. I generally love the British style of film-making, dialog, and humor, with less reliance on special effects and mood music. In fact, if you pay attention to British films and TV shows, you'll notice they have far less music, and more often sizeable stretches without music.Anyway, this film is about a family that has developed some strained relationships, and are just going through the motions. Until the long-gone but not forgotten daughter shows up. Imagine the surprise, because the mother had given her up for adoption without ever laying eyes on her. She had the wrong father in mind - this daughter is black!!Naturally this throws everything familial into a new light, and the beauty and fun of the film is how this revelation, and the new member of the family, helps to repair old relationships.Truly a fine, memorable movie, well-written and with fine performances from all cast members.Timothy Spall plays the understanding brother, Maurice Purley. Brenda Blethyn plays Cynthia Rose Purley, the single mother with a daughter just turning 21, but with a long forgotten secret daughter about 26. Blethyn plays a woman of 42, even though she was about to turn 50. And, Marianne Jean-Baptiste is super as Hortense Cumberbatch, the long lost black daughter who felt the need to search for her birth mother after her own adopted mother died. "}{"Title":"British Soap Opera That Delivers","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Secrets & Lies is a very well-written and acted film that is a complicated soap opera set in England.  A young black woman (played by Marianne Jean-Baptiste in an Oscar-nominated role) wants to find out who her real mother is after her adoptive parents pass away.  Enter Brenda Blethyn (also in an Oscar-nominated role) who is a working-class white woman who is experiencing hardships at home with her ungrateful daughter.  Now throw in Blethyn's brother and his wife who are trying unsuccessfully to have a child of their own.  Mix all these elements together and you have a film that starts very tame, but ends with fireworks.  The performances are all top-notch among the five main players, with Blethyn dominating most of the action.  Mike Leigh's screenplay and direction are the catalysts to this film.  4 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Its a big pond","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a long-time USA-dwelling Brit, I had to chime in here on the whole Barger vs. the world on the subject of Secrets and Lies issue; though it appears to be no longer the white hot debate it once was. I really liked Secrets and Lies, though I can certainly see how Americans raised on fantasy and escapism could fail to click with the gritty kitchen-sink realism the Brits love so much (Eastenders vs. Dallas). I think closing yourself off to al the joys of the Italian, French, English, Australian etc. etc. cinemas is a terrible thing for a professed movie-lover to do.Secrets and Lies was a very powerful and psychologically satisfying movie. The unhappy woman who tries to get love by giving people things (and simultaneously punish them with the guilt of being in her debt but refusing her offer - Does anyone want a sandwich? can really get under your skin) rang very true. I though Blethyn (and the rest of the cast) was incredible, and her nomination again this year well deserved. But even if you don't like the first non-American film you happened to see, don't close off 95% of the world from your mind. It's thinking like that what causes unrest. "},{"Title":"Old wine in a new kitchen sink","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   Despite a great deal of critical acclaim, I found Secrets and Lies somewhat wooden and contrived, almost stagey in its plot development. A dysfunctional family unites at Christmas, with the inclusion of a mysterious friend of the main female character, who is black. At first tolerated out of English politeness, all hell breaks loose when it is disclosed that the woman is the female lead's daughter from an earlier relationship. Darkies are perfectly fine as long as you don't happen to be related to one it seems, and the long hidden wounds of the various family members (infertility, envy, perceived parental neglect) begin to bleed again. All leads to catharsis, and a boo-hoo-fest penultimate scene leads to a 'gritty' and uneasy resolution a l'anglaise - tea in the backyard. The end.  Secrets and Lies contains a number of strong ensemble performances, but it's hard to escape the feeling that the film looks like it might have been made as a family therapy training video. The exposition is just too neat, the confluence of tensions just too symmetrical. In the middle of it all is the character of Hortense, a pillar of quiet (and slightly freaked-out) dignity in a nest of yelling, anal-retentive and blubbering Anglos. One is left with the urge to slap the main characters or show them around Baghdad for a few weeks; the constant angst about relatively insignificant problems tends to pall very quickly. Is Mike Leigh making a satirical point about the hill-of-beans preoccupations of urban Britons, or are we genuinely expected to feel the pain? Whatever happened to the stiff upper lip? If you really want to have a good cry, see 'Travelling Birds' instead. Or your analyst. "},{"Title":"Dear Lord, this film is like an excursion to the seventh level of hell","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember enduring this bombastic assault on the senses when it initially came out on video following winning a slew of undeserved Oscar nominations. It demonstrates two things clearly. First, that the British can produce films about dysfunctional families that are just as crummy as ones done in the U.S. Second, Oscar voters have a perverse sense of humor. The flimsy plot revolves around a serious-minded adopted black woman who decides to go in search of her birth mother and stumbles into the horrifying central family depicted in the film. The film is basically just a series of character vignettes, loosely connected, that build up to a revelatory dinner sequence, where the mother can sabotage the proceedings and turn herself into a drama queen. Virtually nothing about this film works at all. I observed years ago that the dialog seemed to be made up, haltingly, on the spot by the actors. It came as no surprise to me years later when the cast confirmed just that. It sports the worst musical score in memory - a few melancholy toots on a horn signal the opening and closing of each scene. Marianne Jean-Baptiste is actually quite good as the black daughter. She functions as an island of calm and normalcy amid the overwrought dreck. Timothy Spall seems about ready to fall asleep as the lumpish guy stuck between his whining wife and needy sister. Brenda Blethyn is light years beyond dreadful. She begins or ends every scene in the film in a state of shrieking hysteria. There is not one ounce of subtlety or introspection in her performance. It is a small wonder that the sets could withstand such a severe onslaught of scenery chomping. Only the masochistic would wish to stay around such a character, much less claim they enjoyed watching her antics. "},{"Title":"A decent film for an English analysis, but fairly disappointing as a movie","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I viewed the film Secrets and Lies by Mike Leigh and as an English text to analyze and take apart the film was rich with character and plot development, filled with ideas and themes and it bridged multiple gaps such as race and class.But as a film to be seen purely for enjoyment this movie was on the lower end of the spectrum as the plot was only mildly interesting and the movie itself only covers basic ideas with no complex intrigues or adaptations of typical plots. A women finds her birth mother and they get together again, have a jolly chat and spill some of the rest of the families secrets before everyone makes up and the film is resolved neatly with nothing left unfinished.If you are in the mood for an interesting film, this is not for you, but as a text for an English class it is useful. "},{"Title":"Intriguing...yet slow and pointless","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I liked it while I watched it, but looking back I feel like it's a women's picture, with a majority of women as characters, and it just should have been directed by a woman. I feel like a woman director could have really explored the psyche of all the women better and uncovered why things happened in a more satisfying way. The topic focused on female issues, and the truth is men just have an outsider's view on it. Men can do movies like this, but I can feel the artificiality of it and deep down inside I just know that it could have been done better with a female touch. Too bad not enough women are give the chance to prove that they can do it better, and the proportion of female to male directors shows that it's still a man's domain. Phooey! "},{"Title":"Dreary Brit Flick","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the sort of movie that the deluded British film industry loves and the average British film goer hates - A low concept drama about a woman trying to find her birth mother . It`d be a miracle if you could fill a telephone box with this premise never mind a cinema . There is of course an argument that the plot is both real and sensible , especially if you compare it with a plot about humans , hobbits , elves and dwarfs going on a dangerous quest and fighting massed armies of goblins , but be brutally honest , what film would you prefer to watch ?Mike Leigh directed the brilliant classic BBC teleplay  ABIGAIL`S PARTY , but I`m afraid that`s what he is - a TV director . SECRETS AND LIES is directed in a rather flat static way with extremely variable performances . As always Brenda Blethyn is very good , Marianne Jean Baptiste is average at best as is Timothy Spall but Phyllis Logan is terrible , notice how she speaks one line with a northern regional English accent then speaks a couple of more lines in a broad Scottish accent ? What , you noticed ? Strange how the director didn`t . Maybe he fell asleep while making this . I know I fell asleep watching it  "},{"Title":"painful to watch","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Painful to watch, and not entirely for empathy with the struggles of the characters. Two of the main characters, Cynthia the mother and Monica the acknowledged daughter, spend the great bulk of the film pathetically mewling and  bitterly bitching respectively. Their characters are so firmly established that their redemption into tolerable personalities after a quick family catharsis is unbelievable. It wasn't worth the wait. I wish a worthy pitch for honesty among families was less of a headache to view. "},{"Title":"A Waste of Good Acting","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Time is precious.  This film isn't.  I must learn to ignore critics who rave about small films like Fargo and this complete waste of time.The theater was packed and everyone left with the same reaction Is this the film the critics are raving about?  What a piece of crap!The hook of this film is the upwardly mobile black daughter seeking out and finding her white trash family.  Get it?The acting is superb.The production (lighting, sets, editing, sound) is about 2 steps above a 60 minutes story.  The characters are shallow and unintelligent.  I was insulted by the fact that these people could not figure out about each other what was blatantly obvious to the audience; the audience was murmuring to the movie screen what the characters should say next.I have had more fun doing the laundry. "},{"Title":"Seams so cheap and made for TV-movie-like!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all there wasn't really anything in this movie that grabbed me really. It wasn't a bad movie, just another movie where I said Well, that wasn't anything special after I'd seen it. There was probably drama and stuff, but it simply didn't grab me, but more seamed semi-dull. As I said in the headline it seamed very cheap in a way. The quality of the film itself (the images) seamed like a low quality and reminded me more of some cheap made for TV-movie than a well respected English film-maker. The camera angles and shots were very amateur like in my opinion. Didn't really have any close up shots or similar effects to produce interesting scenes. I haven't seen many English films and the ones I've seen didn't really impress me more than this and they seamed kind of similar done with the camera work, colors and such. Game tried to be more cool, hip & smart (see my review of Lola Rennt about this if you wish), but didn't succeed for me either. Overall just a little indifferent movie that wasn't anything special (at best, I'm afraid) and basically unfortunately over two hours wasted. "}{"Title":"Great conception, lousy accents","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike Leigh seems to have founded the school of anti-Hollywood. I know that whenever I see a film of his it will be well written and can't watch it.  The accents are so awful that I have to close my eyes to be able to figure out what they're saying. In this film Brenda Blethen concocts an accent that is so incomprehensible that I couldn't watch the film straight but had to break it up into many viewings. I saw My Left Foot so I know this is made up because she had a different accent there. It seems every year Mike Leigh puts out an award winning film and I dread them because they're made up of the most low class charachters and awful sounding voices. As far as this film, a more Hollywood like treatment would make it more enjoyable "},{"Title":"The most over-rated movie I have seen on the IMDB!","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At least among those movies with 100 votes or more. Nominated for best screenplay written directly for the screen? Brenda Blethyn nominated for best actress in a leading role?? Nominated for best picture?? I always disagree with many of the Oscar picks, but this movie might very well be the worst movie of all time to be honored by the Academy. The writing and acting were both horrible. Blethyn's perfomance in particular was one of the worst I've ever seen, and probably the most over-rated acting performance of all time. Awful movie, not worthy of the big screen and not worthy of any cable or television channel that has ever played it, including HBO(where I saw it). I am only thankful I didn't actually pay to see one of the most over-rated movies of all time.  "},{"Title":"bring it on","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, EYEboy, I must say that it pleases me to no end when someone singles me out and tries to make fun of me, especially when it is someone who seems as intelligent as you do. My favorite part of your post was But no big bang-bang good-guy bad-guy here, kimosabe. Me suggest you stick to movie with lotsa bang bang.Well said! I do like action movies, especially if they are well done, but I also like movies that don't have a whole lot of action, as long as THEY are well done. I'm sorry, but Secret's and Lies does not fit into that category and is simply a very bad movie. I really don't see very many non-American films, so maybe I was spoiled, and didn't realize how bad foreign films really were when I saw Secrets and Lies. Perhaps if I judge foreign movies by a different standard I could some day see how Secrets and Lies could possibly be one of the highest rated movies on the IMDB. Hmm... If true, that is very scary.Jeremy Barger bits@midohio.net(new e-mail) "},{"Title":"Horrible People","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Horrible People ought to be the subtitle of this horrible film. If you want to see ordinary people doing ordinary things, then look out of your window at real life. But if you want to see unpleasant people doing dull things, you'll have to watch this horrible film by Mike Leigh. The characters talk at length, but never actually manage to communicate with each other. Why not? Presumably because Leigh things that all of us are as ineffective and pathetic as his actors, and he wants to film real life. But we're not, and he failed.  "},{"Title":"argh!","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was the most horrible movie watching experience i have ever had to endure, and what is worse is the fact that i had to watch it, and didn't have the opportunity to stop it because it was for school! Admittedly, the storyline was decent...but i found the acting terrible! The exception was Marianne Jean-Baptiste, i thought her performance was wonderful. She was the only highlight, without her, i doubt i would have been able to bear watching the film. Every time i hear somebody say daarling i cringe! i nearly attacked a customer the other day because they said it. It made me remember one of the worst one and a half hours of my life!(i apologise if this has offended anybody, i am only expressing my opinion) "},{"Title":"BAD MOVIE!","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen a lot of movies...this is the first one I ever walked out of the theater on. Don't even bother renting it. This is about as boring a soap opera as one can see...at least you don't have to pay to watch a soap opera, though. "}]