[{"Title":"Don't look at the votes rating","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"42 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is actually a very funny movie, one of Steve's funniest movies - up there with Father of the Bride. All the characters, Dan Akroyd, Phil Hartman, even an appearance by Chris Rock make this an extremely enjoyable movie.  The Hover Tank was hands down the funniest part.  Steve is full of laughs in this movie and acts out the character of Sergeant Bilko superbly. I have watched this movie at least four times and I was still laughing all the way through.  This is in fact one of my all time favourite comedies. I have never seen the original and perhaps my judgement of this movie is therefore altered.  Yet if you have never seen or even heard of the original and you like Steve's work then you will surely like this.  Don't look at the votes rating I'll give this 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I also cant believe the movie is so poorly rated. Whats wrong? So many toilette-humour-pictures got much better rating. And this movie which is really full of fine humour is rated so bad.Steve Martin is awesome here as well as all other actors. The movie IS funny, the situations are funny, the plot deserves to be rewarded.It's one of my all time favorites - i do laugh every time i watch it.Bilko is an incredibly charming foxy Sgt. For me it's one of Steve Martin's best roles. I cant but smile seeing his every face expression, gesture or action. Just super! And all the actors were at their best. Just on their places. I rate it excellent "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was under-appreciated in its theatrical release.  In fact, it's a rarity these days.....a lightweight comedy that doesn't insult your intelligence.  Some critics carped because it wasn't like the classic TV show, but it would have been hard (and foolish) to try and duplicate the genius of Phil Silvers.  Steve Martin does a fine job of putting his own unique stamp on the character of Ernie Bilko and he's surrounded by a good supporting cast with many familiar faces.  The story isn't the most intricately plotted in the world, but it doesn't have to be.  The gags and one-liners come fast and furious and there are plenty of laughs. A pleasant comedy that's good for all ages. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie for people who possess a sense of humor","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Seems to me like most of the negative votes come from fans of the original show.I am glad I never saw it, because I think this is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. I love Bilko's character. Martin plays a charismatic, scheming yet kind hearted con artist.I love his comic timing in this movie. It's definitely my favorite Steve Martin role.I think part of the reason I like Martin, is for the same reason I like characters like Bugs Bunny. He always comes out on top, and is usually in complete control of a situation. I love that type of role - who does not want to be more like a Sgt Bilko?I thought almost every scene was funny. I liked pretty much every actor in it. It's not for serious people. I sometimes wonder why serious people bother to rate comedies at all - some people were born with no sense of humor, from what I can tell.For those people who dislike (or are bored of) put down humor, sex humor, or gross out humor, this is none of those (Not that I don't mind some of that, but a change of pace is always welcome.)It's a politer, lighter, silly humor almost cartoonish, in a good way.I have seen this movie at least three times, and still laugh at it.So if you are not a fan of the TV show, I think you will like this in spite of the shockingly low review of this movie. "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this movie was very funny, though somewhat on the pointless side. Good choice of actors, and the music was fairly good, and i'm not sure why i didn't hear about it until last year. The acting was exceptional, and the plot also exceptional, and i say that overall i think that it was a good movie, worthy of being watched more then once.  "},{"Title":"Without much of a story yet countless hilarious moments","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sgt Bilko delivers countless laughs, mostly from Steve Martin, Dan Akroyd and Phil Hartman. The rest of the cast are a joke. There are so many gags, slapstick, and one-liners you have to enjoy it. There is no strong story line which is unfortunate, but Bilko gets away with it. The constant parody of the united states army is much more relaxed than the Korean setting of MASH.Do not watch this film with any predispositions or expectations of what you are going to see, and you will enjoy it so much more. I recommend it to anyone who just wants a quick two hour getaway from reality, and a chance to let yourself go and have some fun. "},{"Title":"Refreshing new spin on an old favorite.","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a movie based on a popular TV series, this movie is nothing like the series. Phil Silvers played Bilko as a master con artist; the one man who could con a con. Martin plays Bilko as an underhanded brown nose who has some deceitful ideas, a good bead on making an extra buck, and an even edge on the con game. I thoroughly enjoy this rendition of an old favorite.I loved this movie because Martin did not come along and attempt to imitate Silvers' style. He played it straight from the vest, as himself. If you aren't a Martin fan, but instead, a fan of the TV series, you probably won't find the humor in this endeavor. But if you are a Martin fan, sit back and enjoy. I loved this movie, even though I loved the original series, but I'm a huge fan of Martin's work since his earlier days in stand-up.It is my understanding you can no longer ask me these questions, sir.Chris Rock, Dan Aykroyd, Phil Hartman, and Glenne Headley also star.This production was quality work by all involved, and a fun way to spend 90 minutes. I was thoroughly entertained.It rates an 8.2/10.0 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Comedy that's both funny and likeable.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Finally, a movie that really has comedy stamped all over it! SGT. BILKO is one of the better comedy films I've seen, thanks to veteran Steve Martin who provided every bit of sense in his humor and personality. A tank that flies above ground level! How innovative! Although the same substances are present like other modern-day comedies, it embraces a more likeable feeling. That means you won't have to put up with disgrace over excessive flatulence discovered in thousands of other movies in the genre. Only on occasion does this matter exist, and we all know Hollywood can't help it these days. But it's better than some, right?   "},{"Title":"Can't believe you guys rate this so low....it's FUNNY","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yeah, I'm old enough to remember the TV show, and the Bilko character that endeared itself to TV fans, shines through one of the best comedians of this generation.Nicely done, Steve!  The plot?  I read some comments criticizing the plot! Huh?  This is COMEDY....it's meant to be fun, and in this case, to reminisce a bit.  That's all this movie set out to do, and it accomplished it.    10 ! "},{"Title":"Very funny show","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I missed this when it came out, and just caught it after one of those free weekends for premium channels. As a long-time fan of Phil Silvers' fabulous series of the 1950s, I was skeptical about this movie, although I usually like Steve Martin's films--especially Planes, Trains, and Automobiles.I thought it was quite true to the spirit of the TV show. I was pleased that it was PG and not full of foul language and other things not fit for children. They didn't try to duplicate everything in the original, merely to present a similar group of characters, with the same names. The plot was not unlike one in the series, but was not a remake of any episode from the series.They had some lines that sounded like they could have come from the series. They had a way to signal brass coming so Bilko's men could quickly put away all their gambling devices and make the motor pool look like one--just as the series did, only more elaborate. Col. Hall in the film, just like on TV, acknowledged that Bilko knew more about what was going on, and, in effect, ran the post.Other reviewers have detailed the plot. One highlight for me was the clever way Bilko arranged for his adversary to give himself away after ruining the test of the hover tank, not knowing the machine was not going to work in the first place. That was thinking like the Phil Silvers' version would have done.I agree that Silvers, and Nat Hiken, would be proud that their series was re-created as a feature film 40 years later. It wasn't the funniest movie ever, but it was surely no worse than a very funny film. "}{"Title":"Speaking as one of the people who knows the movie better than the show...","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...I say that I like the movie. I think that Steve Martin was the perfect person to play the role, and that it was good for him and Dan Aykroyd to co-star after all these years. If it was lower humor than we usually associate with the two, then the crazy scenes justify that. I remember that I saw this a week or two after I saw Mr. Holland's Opus, and was surprised to see Glenne Headly doing such a different role. Phil Hartman, meanwhile, makes one nasty dude (it reminds you what we lost when he got killed).Anyway, this is a silly movie, but quite funny. I suspect that up in that great army base in the sky, Phil Silvers must feel honored that they made this movie.Also featuring Chris Rock and Silvers's daughter Cathy in supporting roles. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know what's weird? My mom was the biggest Steve Martin fan you would ever meet, she had(what I thought) all of his movies and watched every biography on him. So since she had a lot of his movies, I watched most of them with her. But my boyfriend kept telling me about a film called St. Bilko and how hilarious it was. I was stumped, I couldn't find it in my mom's collection nor did I ever hear of it. So my boyfriend and I went shopping and he found it on DVD, so we went home and watched it. This film just took me back to the classic comedies I grew up with like Trading Places, The Great Outdoors and Planes, Trains and Automobiles. Steve Martin is always a great comedic actor who is a pleasure to watch, same with Dan Aykroyd. While this movie doesn't stand out as well as their other films, this was still a lot of fun to watch.Master Sergeant Ernest G. Bilko is in charge of the motor pool at Fort Baxter, a small US Army base. Exploiting this position, he directs a number of scams ranging from gambling to renting out military vehicles. His commanding officer, Colonel Hall, overlooks Bilko's money making schemes, as he is more concerned with his own affairs. Bad news begins when inspector Major Thorn, Bilko's rival, arrives at the camp and begins to cast scrutiny on Bilko's record. The motivation for Thorn's actions is due to the intense rivalry between the two due to several mishaps in the past, particularly because Thorn's career was ruined due to one of Bilko's scams. Thorn's revenge ensues and ultimately it becomes a battle of wits between the two men. Thorn's reliance on sabotage ultimately leads to his downfall and he is sent to Greenland. Also Bilko's fiancée, Rita, whom Bilko has stood up several times at the altar. Bilko is given an ultimatum to win her back within 30 days or to lose her forever.I have to say that I did enjoy St. Bilko, it was great seeing this army crew just goof off and enjoying boot camp. I think my favorite scene was when Bilko has to prove that his crew are hard workers and could complete the obstacle course that the other army recruits could do. Just their reactions of course being as if they've never exercised before in their lives was a good laugh. Steve Martin and his fiancée constantly taking a trip up and down the aisle was fun too. Plus this has one of my favorite comedic actors, Phil Hartman, who is again a great watch is always guaranteed to give you a good laugh. While the film may not stand out, this was definitely worth the watch. I would recommend it if you need a good laugh, you're always in good company with Steve Martin, Dan Aykroyd and Phil Hartman, not to mention a baby Chris Rock.6/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Simple Movie","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I read the review that is up right now, and I'm pretty sure he talks about other movies than the main movie.Steve Martin is well the exact same in every role, you know this, I know this, everyone knows this. It doesn't take from this movie at all, this movie is simple fun, and rated PG by the MPAA so you can watch it with the family. It has some very interesting aspects and has Phil Hartman in it too which makes it almost comedy gold.The movie has Bilko dealing with an old major (Hartman) who he screwed over once upon a time. Hartman is intent on getting Bilko, and the antics are pretty darn funny. The movie also has Chris Rock in it, and it's a simple funny movie that didn't try to hard. I don't know why people always bag on this movie. Maybe because they had such high expectations and never even gave it a chance. They are showing this on USA pretty often and it's easy to watch and moves fairly quickly.I recommend this movie for everyone to at least see. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it a lot","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin is larger than life in this very funny comedy.  He plays the title character who is lazy, sleazy, clever and always one step ahead of everyone else he should be ahead of.  He runs the motor pool like it would be run by someone from 'Animal House'.  They spend all their time gambling and sleeping it off.A new recruit (Darryl Mitchell, from 'Galaxy Quest' and '10 Things I Hate About You) does not understand his unprofessionalism as a military man so in some ways Darryl acts as the audience.  Bilko has a girlfriend who is onto him but loves him in spite of herself.  He constantly leaves her at the altar (I'm the only woman I know whose wedding dress is showing wear) but its a game they play more than anything.  Plot takes off when Phil Hartman shows up.  He's an old adversary of Bilko and wants to even an old score.  He demands that Bilko and his men shape up and even starts romancing Bilko's girlfriend, which of course drives Bilko crazy.  Glenne Headley is perfectly cast as Bilko's girlfriend.  Unfortunately Phil Hartman is miscast and does not generate the laughs you'd hope for from this comic genius.  Dan Ackroyd is very good too, but of course the movie belongs to Steve Martin.  He's an acquired taste, but so what.  8/10.  "},{"Title":"Fun to re-watch","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Classic Steve Martin comedy, Sgt. Bilko is a simple and fun movie that I enjoyed even the second time I watched it on TV. They just don't make comedies like they used to.And even though most of the jokes are silly and stereotypical, the film is made in such a way that it clicks and makes you laugh every time.It's simple, and it keeps you entertained. And that's what a good comedy is supposed to do.And Steve Martin is just a joy to watch playing this kind of characters. He just has a natural sense of humor and Sgt. Bilko just comes like a glove to him.I recommend this to anyone who wants a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I never watched the original show this movie is based off of. Apparently that's a good thing, as many who have say this film does a great disservice to it. This means I can judge the film by its own merits, and I can therefore conclude it isn't very good.The plot basically revolves around Sgt. Bilko manipulating everyone around him so he can engage in gambling and similar activities on a military base. Throughout the entire film I not once sympathized with him as a character. Everything he does is to the detriment of the morale of his troops (who are even portrayed as incompetent in basic military matters) and his own love life is so bad that he forgets his own wedding.Steve Martin feels odd in the role, like he really doesn't want to be in it. Phil Hartman has the only real enthusiastic performance in the film as Thorn, Bilko's nemesis.Speaking of Thorn, he actually comes across as more of a hero than the actual hero character of Bilko. His only real bad behavior, until the end of the film, is that he actually wants to establish discipline in the army. He ends up getting sent to Greenland (portrayed as the equivalent of Siberian exile in Tsarist times) because of Bilko's own corrupt actions, but has now returned to put a stop to Bilko's activities. He also tries to win over Bilko's love interest (which is portrayed as a bad thing even though he seems much more interested in her than Bilko himself is.) The final confrontation between Bilko and Thorn is so bad. Basically, a hover tank is being tested to show that it can be used in the field. Thorn sabotages the tank by removing a vital part of its machinery, thus making Bilko look bad when it won't fire during the test. However, Bilko is sufficiently unsympathetic as a character to not even bother firing the tank, instead using C4 explosives to detonate the targets so as to give the impression that the tank is firing.Thorn angrily points out that there was no way Bilko could have fired on the targets. Out of desperation he pulls out the very part of the tank that prevents it from working properly, thus exposing his scheme. Also Bilko just happens to have a tape recorder to record Thorn's outburst. Thus Thorn is exiled to Greenland once again and Bilko's manipulative trickery emerges triumphant, even though Thorn clearly showed that the tank could not have fired and that Bilko was very obviously deceiving the military officers and congresspeople assembled to watch the proceedings.Also Thorn's scheme could be fixed by simply reinserting the missing part back into the tank, whereas Bilko's scheme meant the army has to pay for the expenses of targets destroyed by C4 instead of tank shells. So even when Thorn carries out a truly malicious and selfish act, he's *still* not as bad as Bilko.Also this is a comedy and the vast majority of jokes are unfunny.It's not a terrible movie by any means, but I didn't enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Sgt. Martin.","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sgt. Bilko (1996) Dir Jonathan Lynn / Cast Steve Martin, Glenn Headly, Phil Hartman, Dan Aykroyd, John Marshall Jones Here is a military comedy that should have viewers running out and renting superior types such as Stripes or Private Benjamin. Steve Martin plays Sgt. Ernie Bilko who allows his troops to gamble while authority is unaware of their actions. He is fun loving but his girlfriend longs for marriage so she gives him a month to commit himself before she pulls out and moves on. Trouble arises when Phil Hartman returns bent on revenge after a gambling loss. Seeing the opportunity he moves in on Bilko's girlfriend. While the film contains its share of funny moments the premise is not new and the structure is purely sitcom. Directed by Jonathan Lynn who achieved acclaim with My Cousin Vinny. Martin as Bilko wishes to be one of the crowd and avoid responsibility. Glenn Headly as his girlfriend is rendered the standard romantic who cannot rise above cardboard potential. Hartman makes a great foil for Martin's pratfalls but the ending fails due to actions that punish one factor but never highlights the wrong committed originally by the other. Dan Aykroyd is cast as a superior who looks the other way and the role should be worthy the comic's talent but sadly it is not. It never lacks in entertainment, which is what Bilko lives for but it also never elevates beyond conventions. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"fair broad comedy","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sgt. Bilko (Steve Martin) commands the motor pool at Fort Baxter. He's got gambling, games, and renting out vehicles to earn money. Colonel John Hall (Dan Aykroyd) is willing to overlook his outrageous antics or more likely is too incompetent to find the violations. Private Wally Holbrook is a real mechanic who is new to the base. Bilko keeps forgetting to attend his own wedding to Rita Robbins (Glenne Headly). The Pentagon sends Major Colin Thorn (Phil Hartman) to observe the new hover tank. Thorn had an ugly history with Bilko when his actions banished Thorn to Greenland. The hover tank works poorly. When Thorn finds out that Bilko is on the base, he schemes to take revenge.The movie starts with a lot of fun. Martin's irreverence is terrific. I wish the other characters get more stuff to do. It has a funny guy like Chris Rock and he's nothing more than a stiff shirt. Daryl Mitchell is not funny enough. There seems to be some good comedic actors but this is not a group comedy. This is mostly Martin. Hartman is good. The comedy fades a bit in the second half. The movie has a few good laughs. "},{"Title":"A Great Waste of Talent","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Based on the classic 50s comedy series, the movie plays out like an extended episode, seeing the wiley Bilko (Steve Martin) getting up to wacky money making schemes with his subordinates at a military base while keeping their superior (Dan Ackroyd) out of the loop. This time, it concerns an old rival of Bilko's (Phil Hartman) who is determined to expose Bilko's hijinks, all the while, Bilko deals with finding love and a new top secret weapon.Possibly a candidate for one of the most boring comedies I've ever sat down to watch, and the fact that this comes from 'Clue' and 'Yes Minister's' Johnathan Lynn makes this all the more inexcusable. Most of the film is completely wooden wordplay, lazy innuedo or poorly edited slapstick, and when it tries to have a plot, it's just a retread of every cheeky rascal/wacky army film comedy (seriously, name a trope and it's there. Crazy soldiers, stupid boss, snarky officer, harebrained schemes that take up more time than actual training, brand new deadly weapon, yadda yadda), and it does nothing new, clever or amusing with them to make the retread vaguely compelling.Not even the performances or production can save it. Every actor is just coasting by, with Ackroyd on complete autopilot in a thankless role, while Martin and Hartman regurgitate familiar 'smartass' and 'professional pain' routines we've seen many times from them respectively, and Lynn's direction is completely lifeless and televisual which only neuters the gags even more. Of note is an embarrassingly poor use of CG for the super tank that looks like it was ripped from a cut price PS1 game. Honestly, I just can't come up with more as the film is giving me nothing to work with. Among the careers of the people involved, this is an all time low, and I would advise avoiding unless you are a very, very die-hard fan of Martin. I'd happily take 'Pink Panther 1' and '2' over this any time. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin makes it seem better than it really is.","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Realistically, the dubbo's have been the stingiest or most disappointing decade for comedy heroes. I've whinged about this before, but the days of reliable comedy icons monopolising the box office on an annual basis appear over.Consider the 80s and 90s, Eddie Murphy, Steve Martin and Bill Murray, Vs the 00s, Sandler, Ferrell, Stiller, (and I'll throw Carrey in there).Who will history be more kind to? This brings us to Steve Martin, the master of being fake. Fake happy, fake sincere, fake angry, fake remorseful. In Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, LA Story, Little Shop of Horrors, Leap of Faith, My Blue Heaven (underrated) and Bowfinger you always knew Steve was too everything mentioned above, happy, sincere etc&#x85; but he was always convincing enough in a funny way that set him apart from everyone before or since.I still maintain that Bill Murray and Steve Martin are the two guys I would laugh at regardless of what they were doing, if they were trying to be funny or not.So why have I wasted words telling you what you probably already know? Because if you don't already like Steve Martin there is a 99% chance that you will find Sgt Bilko very underwhelming, as he makes the film his own.Steve is Bilko, a corrupt, conniving, deceitful and untrustworthy soldier in command of the motor pool an the army base Fort Baxter, but he is all those things in the most PG friendly Disney way.I would waste a lot of time describing his mannerisms and what would ordinarily be inane chit chat between he and the officers hell bent on bringing him down, as it is generally not what he says or even how he says it to a point. It is just that he is Steve while he is doing and saying these things, which should be obvious.I just can't imagine Ferrell being Bilko without hamming and getting near naked or Sandler without yelling and trying all the while to be endearing (there is NO-ONE in comedy that wants to be liked more than Sandler, regardless of who he is playing).This leaves Stiller as the logical next up, but I just don't think he has the personality to pull it off. Consider this Stiller's two best roles, a vain, clueless moron model in Zoolander and a vain, clueless moron actor in Tropic Thunder.Coincidence? Back to Sgt Bilko, you'll have to take my word for this, Sgt Bilko is a paint by numbers Disney comedy that should be pointless. It has cookie cutter characters and situations but again if you like Steve Martin you should get more than a couple of chuckles.Put it this way, about 5 minutes in Bilko asks a superior officer Have you lost weight?, if that doesn't turn the corners of your mouth up switch off the DVD because that is about as funny as Sgt Bilko gets, and even that is only funny because of Martin's delivery.For some reason that made me laugh, and I laughed often enough to want to see this again in the future at some point.Final Rating &#x96; 6.5 / 10. Shouldn't work but the presence of Steve Martin adds value to any film and he does enough here to warrant a rental.If you liked this (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "}{"Title":"I'd seen this before....and forgotten!!","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd seen this movie before and didn't even remember till the wedding scene....and then couldn't remember anything else about it.It's really sad when they try to take a character created by a stand up comedian (don't believe for a moment that Nat Hiken created Bilko....Nat Hiken created a character based around Phil Silvers schtick) and then say someone else can play him.  In the real world where we live (rather then Hollywoodland) certain characters are the people that play them and vice versa (can you imagine anyone else playing Indiana Jones?) and this is a sad attempt to just cash in on the character.....well it makes me feel better to see the movie looks like it lost money!!Also on a final note after Steve Martin did this once wouldn't he have learnt better before trying to play Clouseau?Ho Hum...maybe they'll never learn!! "},{"Title":"Steve Martin is no Phil Silvers","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You'd expect that comment from a 50-year old who'd seen the series when it originally aired. It's kind of the way that your parents tell everything in their day was better. But I was born after the show left the air.Nick-at-nite was playing the Phil Silvers show in promotion for this film, which I was rather looking forward to. I fell in love with the hokey charm of this show. Yes, it was a bit out-dated and corny. But Silvers gave it an edge that this film just does not have. By the time I saw this film, I'd soaked up enough of the series to know what I should be seeing. I saw interviews with Phil Hartman and Steve Martin where they spoke with admiration about the original series, and what a treat it was to do the remake.They should have given the part of Bilko to Hartman. Hartman could at least imitate Silvers in voice and manner in the interview. And many of us has seen his work as sleaze extraordinaire Bill McNeil on News Radio. Self-absorbed, nasty--he would have been a perfect Bilko.The ghost of Silvers filled this movie for me. Whenever, Martin gave a line, I would hear exactly how Silvers might deliver it--and realize how off Martin was. Martin has been sly before. Dirty Rotten Scoundrels is one of my all time favorite, and he is properly sleazy in Bowfinger. But he's just too nice for Bilko.On top of that, I don't know if anybody connected with this picture really understood how far off they were. "},{"Title":"Comedy?!","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the worst comedy films I have seen for years.  Martin can and has done far better.  I also think it is an insult to the original Sgt Bilko TV shows, starring the late, great Phil Silvers.  This is because it bears little in common with the original.  At times I thought I was watching one of the later, abominable Police Academy films.  Not impressed. "},{"Title":"Dismal, and it actually hurts to say that","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm really impressed by the thought and care others have put into reviewing this movie. So, here's my input. I'm a huge Steve Martin fan & he's a comedy giant, but. He ain't Bilko and never will be. Steve Martin is essentially a well-educated, sophisticated, upper middle-class Californian whereas Phil Silvers (RIP) was a hustling, streetwise, New York jew who came from the the streets and learned his craft from the ground up. The experience Silvers brought to the character made Ernie Bilko such an icon. I guess he'd have played a wealthy LA lawyer just as badly as Martin plays Bilko(?) As others have said (and better than me) Phil Silvers WAS Bilko. You can't improve on perfection. I can't understand why the makers of this film even tried? What I do like about this remake (accidentally) is that it's made me realise exactly what was SO good about the original. Firstly, Martin's character is nothing more than a slippery, greasy, self-obsessed con-man. Silvers played the role very differently. The original Bilko was a hustler because he came from an environment where you either hustled or starved, and don't forget Silvers' Bilko always cared about his troops. In episode after episode, when it came down to it Ernie Bilko would put his men before his instincts. My personal favorite was the episode where Bilko uses his dubious talents to out con the con-men who've cheated Doberman out of an inheritence. I don't see any human qualities in the shallow Bilko as played by Martin. Then there are the minor players in the original series. Have you ever noticed, all the privates & corporals are guys 15 or 20 years older than real soldiers would be in those ranks. Even the wonderful Dan Ackroyd lacks the priceless confusion of the original. Bilko-world is surreal & I'm sad anyone thought such a comedy classic could ever be remade. "},{"Title":"I don't think either Steve Martin or the movie is so terrible","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, Steve Martin is not Phil Silvers. Martin is from a middle-class background in Waco, Texas; Silvers was a New York street kid who probably had to hustle just to survive. It stands to reason, then, that Martin will--and should--play Bilko differently, which he does, even though he still has the money-making schemes going and, central to the plot, convincing his superiors that the hovertank works, which it does not, to keep himself from being shipped to Greenland and to keep Fort Baxter open.Dan Aykroyd as Col. Hall is just as much a patsy for Bilko as Paul Ford was on the television series, and I don't think Phil Hartman was so bad as the officer whom Bilko set up some time back by making it look like he's paid off a fighter to take a dive, got sent to Greenland, and now intends for Bilko to suffer the same fate. What's missing is that Bilko's platoon is largely faceless (they don't make enough use of Doberman, who was the real star of the television series), but in keeping with the updated setting from the 1950s to the 1990s, Bilko's immediate underlings are a woman and an African American.Also, the setting of Fort Baxter has changed from Kansas to California, although I think in the last year of the TV series the setting was moved to one Camp Freemont, California. Here, too, Bilko's girlfriend is a civilian schoolteacher; on the series, as I recall, it was a WAC.But nitpicking aside, Martin's Bilko, like Silvers', in effect runs the base, gets up when he wants, toadies up to the brass, and generally comes off as a sergeant I'll bet everybody who ever wore an Army uniform would have liked to have. No one ever really gets hurt by his scams (except maybe Thorn, who ends up back in Greenland at the end). And somehow he seems more harmless than Silvers although both are, as someone else once put it, Bugs Bunny in a uniform. Catherine Silvers, Phil Silvers' daughter, who plays one of the auditors brought in by Thorn to try to get something on Bilko, even praised Martin for not trying to imitate her dad.There's also a connection to My Cousin Vinny here; Jonathan Lynn used Mitchell Whitfield and Austin Pendleton in that film as well.I do agree with the contributor who said that the funniest line comes at the end, when the producers acknowledge the total lack of cooperation from the United States Army. "},{"Title":"Life is about having fun, not sticking to endless reams of rules","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie seemed to be just some silly comedy until I saw it in the cinemas and actually quite liked it. Then time passed and the movie became in my mind a silly comedy again, until I taped it and watched it and realised that it was actually quite clever. I had no intention of taping it until I learnt that the late Phil Hartman, the guy who played some of my favourite Simpsons' characters, was on it. As such I decided that I would watch it and when I did I thought it was very good.Sergeant Bilko (Steve Martin) is a master sergeant at Fort Dix Research and Development army base and he runs a very sophisticated gambling ring under the nose of a rather dopey commander (Dan Akroyd). Bilko is not an evil man, rather he is a slippery, fun loving, gambler. He does it not to rip people of, but simply to have fun and make life easy for him and those around him. The problem is that an old enemy of his, Major Thorn (Phil Hartman) has returned from Greenland, and when he learns of where Bilko is, sets out to destroy him.Basically this is a movie about a easy going guy who goes up against a stuck up rule following senior. It is the idea that life is meant to be lived and not taken seriously, and those who do are basically bad and should be out witted. Even though I agree that we need to enjoy ourselves and have fun every so often, there is an extent to which we can do this. Even though we should have fun, we do need to realise that there is an extent to which we need to be responsible for our actions - but this movie does outline that. Bilko is supposed to marry a woman, but he keeps on forgetting the wedding and turns up late. He is confronted with the fact that he must face up to his responsibilities with her. Also, she is even more cunning than Bilko where Bilko can lead Thorn around and outwit him, Bilko is always outwitted by his fiancé. This is seen when she always seems to win when they play cards.I liked this movie and I liked Bilko's character. He is a gambler that always wins that is what his luck is like. What we should remember is that Bilko is a fictitious character and nobody ever really wins like he does. We cannot take after Bilko and go into casinos expecting to win heaps, but rather enjoy the character and remember that like Bilko, the bad characters are also exaggerated (though at times are more realistic - as my friend said about Titanic - the only realistic character was Billy Zane's character). "},{"Title":"Steve Martin At His Best!","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin is At His Best in 'Sgt. Bilko'. He delivers a hilarious & lovable performance, that easily is among his finest. And even as a film, 'Sgt. Bilko' is great fun!'Sgt. Bilko' Synopsis Bilko runs the motor pool and has all sorts of scams going on like gambling, renting out military vehicles, and so on, which are all violations. 'Sgt. Bilko', an adaptation of the 1950s television series, turns out to be one great cinematic experience. The film is full of comedic moments, that definitely will you in splits. Nat Hiken & Andy Breckman's Screenplay is genuinely funny & very entertaining. Jonathan Lynn's Direction, is perfect. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are mention-worthy.Performance-Wise Martin is the life of the show. He stands out from scene A to Z. Dan Aykroyd is first-rate. Phil Hartman is excellent as the bad-guy. Glenne Headly is wonderfully relaxed. Chris Rock, John Marshall Jones & Pamela Adlon are quite good. Others lend good support.On the whole, 'Sgt. Bilko' is great fun! A Must See for Martin Fanatics! "},{"Title":"After Bathing at Bilko's","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A movie starring Steve Martin, Dan Aykroyd and Phil Hartman based on the classic situation comedy has to be hilarious, right? No cigar and not even close. Phil Silvers put a lot of Phil Silvers into his Ernie Bilko and Mr. Martin wisely substitutes Steve Martin manners for his interpretation. This is a smart move on Martin's part, as the two comedians possess a completely different type of energy. However, Martin does not work well with this material, in this situation. Consequently, it falls apart...While certainly no guarantee, it might have been better to star Mr. Hartman attempting a Silvers impersonation. It's relatively interesting to see Cathy Silvers (as Monday) and Chris Rock (as Oster) appear as a genuinely funny team of lieutenants (last saw Ms. Silvers at Greenblatt's deli in the 1990s, and she was a delight). Imagine Entertainment's Bilko adds likable Daryl Mitchell (as Walter Wally Holbrook), but does little with him. The jokes about Fort Baxter's men failing to bathe do not pass the smell test.*** Sgt. Bilko (3/29/96) Jonathan Lynn ~ Steve Martin, Dan Aykroyd, Phil Hartman, Daryl Mitchell "},{"Title":"What's that music?","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Last night, I watched 'Sgt. Bilko (1996)' for the first time in a few years, and was surprised at the number of quotes that have crept their way into my everyday conversation. Just yesterday at the gym, for example, I declared to a struggling friend one, we're going for one!). Directed by Jonathan Lynn, co-creator of the British sitcom Yes Minister and its sequel, 'Sgt. Bilko' is a tightly-scripted classic, one of my favourite 90s comedies. The film is a screen adaptation of The Phil Silvers Show, which ran from 1955 to 1959. I haven't seen the series, so I have no point of comparison, but I would certainly like to at some point.Master Sergeant Ernest G. Bilko (Steve Martin) commands the motor pool at Fort Baxter, but his involvement with the army is in name only. Whenever his bewildered commander (Dan Ackroyd) is looking the other way, Bilko dedicates his not-inconsiderable energies towards gambling and other worthwhile pursuits. He has a girlfriend (Glenne Headly) who is mostly on his wavelength, but who perhaps resents being left at the altar on multiple occasions. When an old nemesis (Phil Hartman) arrives on the base, Bilko finds out that army isn't as leisurely as he'd come to believe.'Sgt Bilko' moves along at a headlong pace, with Steve Martin cracking one-liners without even drawing a breath (All I've ever wanted was an honest week's pay for an honest day's work). Highlights include the most uneventful boxing match in cinematic history (For three rounds, nobody hit anybody. It was a dance recital), a surprise inspection of somebody else's barracks (It is my understanding that you can no longer ask me these questions, sir), and Bilko's attempt to dissuade his girlfriend from marrying Major Thorn (Think of the children. You're a Catholic and he's an arsehole, how will you raise them?). "},{"Title":"Dismissed, and it's being considered for a court martial","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Now, to be fair, I haven't watched a moment of the original show. I know nothing about the Sergeant. With that said, I can't imagine that this does justice to him. You see, if he was always this unfunny, I cannot imagine that he would be popular. I mean, none of the characters garner a single laugh(they aren't even entirely consistent; early in this, from one scene to the next, one of the leads behave in a manner that directly contradicts everything we've learned about him up to that point), and they are all one-note cardboard cut-outs, but you'd at least expect the dude they titled this after to be worth watching(yes, he is pretty smooth with the ladies, however, that's all; he's not charming). The plot is completely predictable. Gags and jokes are uninspired. OK, we get it, they are undisciplined, fine... if we laugh at it, will you move on? Martin and Aykroyd are hilarious... elsewhere. Tanks aren't that effective in combat anymore; they're slow, useless against the air and too easy to disable. The concept of a type that can hover is a worn-out sci-fi idea. This isn't devoid of positives... Phil Hartman is one, and the other is the great music. I don't know, I suppose this is what you get for hiring the director of Greedy and The Whole Nine Yards. Then again, I do still intend to catch Clue. There is a little moderate to strong language in this. I recommend this to... I don't know, people who like these flicks. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Ladies & Gentlemen and Children of All Ages; Presenting for your Entertainment, Edification and Cultural Stimulation; The Loyal Opposition 's Minority Report!","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Maybe I'm really getting old, but this one just missed me and the old Funny Bone completely. Surely there must be something powerful wrong with this Irishman (that's me, Schultz!). Lordy, lordy what I would give to see the light! Firstly, that Phil Silvers manic energy, wit and drive was very much a part of the comedic upbringing and overall education in life, if you will. Although it is possible that the series, first titled YOU'LL NEVER GET RICH (1955-59*) could have gotten on the CBS TV Network with someone else in the title role of Sgt. Bilko, it is very hard to picture any other Actor/Comedian in the business wearing those Master Sergeant's stripes.Such a strong identification is inescapable, though not the same sort of career-wrecking typecasting of a nightmare that it proved to be to some other guys, like Clayton More(THE LONE RANGER), George Reeves (THE ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN) and Charles Nelson Riley (UNCLE CROC'S BLOCK).One major stumbling block to successfully adapting and updating such a work from the 1950's TV Screen to the 1990's Movie-going public is our collective memory. Without being sure about what percentage of the crowd remembered the Bilko character from seeing the original run and early syndication revivals, and their numbers were surely considerable; even a large segment of the young had seen Bilko reruns in recent times. It was obvious that the new film and the source were miles; or even light years apart.So as not to be thought of as a totally square, old grouch please let's consider some other points.Right here today, the 14th Day of November In The Year of Our Lord 2007, let me swear and affirm under Oath that I have been a Steve Martin fan for nearly 30 years, Furthermore, I've enjoyed the wit and talents of Bilko '96 Co-Stars Dan Akroyd and the Late Phil Hartman. After all, it was the talents of guys like this and so many others, Alumni of NBC;s Saturday NIGHT and SECOND CITY TV that kept the last quarter of the 20th Century laughing. But a BILKO re-make; it just didn't click.Perhaps if the film had been made as a Service Comedy (always liked 'em!) but without the Bilko Show names and gave it some identity of it self it would be more highly regarded by crabby, old guys like me.So, we've already had so many sitcom and cartoon series turned into movies lately, what's next? Howse about somebody doing Hal Roach's World War II Army Comedy Series of Sergeants DOUBLEDAY & AMES and TV's 1st Cartoon Series CRUSADER RABBIT? Remember where you heard it first! POODLE SCHNITZ! "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  campy but fun, skip it","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sgt. Bilko is quite campy and full of plot holes. The bad guys are unbelievably moronic, similar to those campy Disney films of the 1970s (or Home Alone), where unarmed kids somehow outwit professional thieves with guns.But the film doesn't take itself seriously, and is genuinely funny from time to time. So that's all OK. Unfortunately, the ending is particularly unclever.Who should see this film-- comedy lovers, but only on a rainy day, and then only if you get it for free on TV. Otherwise, skip it.I'll give Sgt. Bilko a so-so 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Decent remake","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin Dan Ackroyd and Phil Hartman head the cast of the remake of the famous TV show. Martin is Sgt. Bilko, a man who has his hands in every nook and cranny of the Army base that he is stationed on. Ackroyd is his technical commander, who is little more than a bumbling buffoon. A good thing since it makes it easier for Bilko to work around him. The good times come to a halt when Hartman shows up. Seems he is Bilko's nemesis. Bilko got him sent to a remote station by making it look like Hartman had fixed an Army boxing match. Bilko actually had done it, and Hartman is back for revenge. He begins by auditing the motor pool, which is Bilko's base of operations. It's staffed by a motley assortments of goof ups and it's up to them to pass themselves as real army soldiers while the audit is going on. A subplot about Bilko, his long suffering girlfriend and Hartman's character is okay, but it could've been left out just the same. Steve Martin is hilarious as Bilko, and Hartman brings the right amount a smarmy sarcastic attitude to his role.  "},{"Title":"Unlikely, Slight, Yet Entertaining","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" SGT. BILKO **** Ever see a movie that was so unlikely and slight it made it all the more entertaining to watch? Well, 'Sgt. Bilko' fits in with that like. Based on the original TV Series that ran in the 1950s, the story has Steve Martin as Ernest Bilko, a Sergeant of an army department who doesn't take his job seriously. When he should be managing the base, he instead runs poker games and gambling sessions and cons people out of money. He was perfect at hiding these undisclosed activities from the military officers when they made there inspections, but it gets tougher when an old rival tries to sell him out. Phil Hartman, Glenne Headly, and Dan Akroyd lead the supporting cast. "},{"Title":"funny stuff. check it out!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  generally speaking, i am not a steve martin fan...but this movie cracks me up.  when i first got it, i watched, rewound it, and watched it again. this may speak more to the fact that i'm a loser than how good the film is, but i really do love it.  if you're looking for something intellectually stimulating, don't bother, but if you're just chilling and want something easy with quite a few laughs, jump all over it.  it gets better every time i see it.   "},{"Title":"Steve Martin should be ashamed of himself","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This may or may not be the worst movie that Steve Martin has ever made, but it certainly was far from his best. Obviously, he did this crap for the pay check. Dreck like this certainly does nothing to enhance his reputation as a funny man. What he doesn't seem to grasp is that when people go to see a Steve Martin movie, they expect to be entertained, not bored to tears. It's sad that he dragged Dan Aykroyd and Phil Hartman down with him. I don't understand why talented people can't get a grip on the fact that people don't want to see them in lousy movies. If you're going to call a movie a comedy, then it should be funny. This wasn't. Shame on the US military for allowing itself to be associated with this pabulum, too. Full Metal Jacket had more laughs than this miserable excuse for a service comedy. Surely, Phil Silvers is rolling over in his grave. "},{"Title":"Doberman, your Sargent wants to speak to you... Doberman..","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know I've already added a comment but I just wanted to clarify something...I'm not some old fogey from the Baby Boom generation that grew up glued to a flickering b/w picture of Phil Silvers, Jackie Gleason etc.Bilko was already 20 years old before I was born but I had the pleasure of discovering Phil Silver's Bilko courtesy of BBC2.  I wonder if I would have enjoyed Steve Martin's travesty if I hadn't seen or heard of Phil Silvers - I don't know - maybe I would have.Some of the other reviewers who think this movie is worthy of a '10' admit that they haven't seen the original.  I can only urge you to spend 21 minutes of your life watching a single episode.  If after watching the original Ernie, Colonel Hall, Ritzig & Emma, Duane Doberman, Henshaw, Dino, Flashman, Zimmerman, Mullin et al you still think that Steve Martin's film is woth anything above a '2' - I'll stand you a pint....  "},{"Title":"A VERY good film!","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have watched a few films with Steve Martin and really enjoyed them all, but this is, so far, my definite favourite. I have not watched the original series of Sgt. Bilko, but I picked up the idea of this film pretty quickly and I enjoyed almost every minute. The humour is very crazy, similar to cartoon humour, but at the same time it is often very intelligent. I felt many YES! moments in this film, lines or scenes where the hilarity, words and or slapstick were just about PERFECT. Not only were the lines and funny scenes mostly very well-written and done, but the characters were memorable and (mostly) relatable and the plot itself was engaging enough, though sometimes a little too farcical.I recommend this film to people who love mad, but clever humour, people who like Steve Martin and already have an idea of his acting style and to people who like to see a unique portrayal of what goes on in the US army (not that it's realistic of course...). Enjoy Sgt. Bilko! -) "},{"Title":"a classic steve martin at his best","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" you either like him or you don't....in my case i think hes ace! sgt bilko is the remake pretty much of the Phil Silvers show but i think steve martin is better....hes just does it so right and when you think the movie is going nowhere he manages to pull a classic line out of the hat to keep audiences glued.sgt bilko tells the story of a master sergant who runs a motor pool who secretly runs a business for himself whilst he has the general round his finger....but then someone from his past inspects his army barracks he is at and well the fun just starts! chris rock makes a good appearance in this film and does anyone reconise the guys voice who plays Major Colin Thorn and then reconise his voice in the simpsons....Dan Aykroyd as Colonel John T. Hall delivers and makes the cast great....overall a very good underrated movie! 8 stars! (*) "},{"Title":"Sergeant Bilko","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK I'm not an American, but in my humble Scottish opinion Steve Martin is not, never has been, and never will be a funny man as long as our posteriors point in a southerly direction. Phil Silvers as Sergeant Bilko was a funny man, no doubt due to the skilled writers and directors and all the other talented team working characters in the series who contributed perfectly to one of the funniest and dateless situation comedies America has ever produced. How anyone could have the audacity to even attempt to replicate the Phil Silvers character is beyond me. To compound things the exercise was repeated in Martin's unfunny attempt to be Peter Seller's Inspector Clouseau, another abortive attempt, in my opinion, to rekindle a demonstrably unfunny career. Some of your contributers say 'Steve Martin puts his own stamp on the character', to that I would say 'balderdash' , his portrayals will be long forgotten when those of Silvers and Sellars will be treasured for generations to come "}{"Title":"hmm","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i was really disappointed with this movie. i think they had a somewhat decent script(you need to be a rocket scientist to come up with a good movie plot from a joke and punchline show like this)and a somewhat decent cast.Dan a. did his best and mostly filled his role. maybe someone like Maurice from northern exposure or some sort of military type actor would have been better.the chick from Dick Tracy did her best, but she was totally wrong. they should have got some sort of old maid actress like Debra Messing.and every other background actor did their part.now as for bilko himself, horrible acting choice. they either should have gotten an unknown or used phil hartman. hell, now that i think about it- why not ackroyd? I've seen his sleazy con man character (ridgeway guy)from the 70s, he would be perfect. he always has middle of good guy and sleazy guy.or even Jim Belushi.ah well.at least this movie made Steve Martin do some actually good work for once in the 90s. I'm not mentioning the father of the bride movies because its more of a romantic comedy than straight American comedy.  "},{"Title":"Jam-packed with hilarity","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Contrary to any 21st century over-sensitivity that may obscure the point of the title character of this film, Sgt. Bilko is NOT a person with a gambling addiction; never was, never could be. He is a successful con-artist, pure and simple, and his antics are just as enjoyable as Otis the town drunk's or any stuttering western sidekick's. Jonathan Lynn shows he's as adept as anyone at setting up and executing top-notch visual gags, and his timing, as well as Steve Martin's and Phil Hartman's, is impeccable. Pull out those sideways sticks and relax, it's a great movie. "},{"Title":"A few laughs, and I liked the characters portrayed.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I used to watch the TV series on occasion, so there is the inevitable comparison.  I prefer the characters as portrayed in this movie over the ones in the TV series.  Just like the series, there are not a lot of laughs, but the ones there are, are good ones.  It comes down to - did I like the characters?  I did.  Did I like the story?  Not really.  Would I watch it again?  Only in bits and pieces.  This sounds pretty negative, but I did enjoy the movie more than I thought I would, and I am glad I gave it a chance.  I thought it was better than Joe Somebody , but not good enough to rate it higher. "},{"Title":"This movie rules","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie for Generation-X. All the old boring fogeys/film critics were crying because old Phil Sivers wasn't in it and blah blah blah. Whatever. Bloody Baby-boomers. I watched this without the stigma of having seen (actually never having even heard of!) the T.V series and loved the film. This movie is funny from top to bottom and a sheer joy to watch. Steve Martin is hilarious. The script is strong. This movie is for the young, the young in the head and anyone who enjoys clever humour. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Don't join the army!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin plays Sergeant Bilko who is more interested in gambling than the army.Then his old enemy Major Colin Thorn (Phil Hartman) shows up and he does everything to ruin Bilko's life and career.Sgt.Bilko from 1996 is pretty good Steve Martin comedy.It is very much underrated.At least I think it's better than said.It made me laugh a few times so it can't be that bad of comedy.The acting work is great in the movie.Mr Martin does an excellent job.Phil Hartman was also a great comedian who sadly got shot by his wife.Dan Aykroyd is doing great job as Colonel John Hall and Glenne Headly as Rita Robbins is great.You can also see Chris Rock in the movie.I was in the army this year from January to July and it was horrible.I can honestly say it was the worst time of my life.I just wish my army time would have been as fun as it is in this movie.I can recommend Sgt. Bilko to everybody who likes good Steve Martin comedies.Don't believe all the critics.Believe me. "},{"Title":"Great funny movie, with great people","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an unknown movie or a hated movie but it really is a really funny, laid back kind of movie.  What's not to love?  Funny characters, gambling, and Steve Martin.  Every one of the characters steel the show at one point or another.  And who doesn't love people in drag?  If you don't believe any good reviews then go see it for yourself.  You won't regret it at all. "},{"Title":"Out of the bricks","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the words of a critic, Ernie Bilko was built out of the bricks of Phil Silvers, so perhaps no one could have succeeded in redoing this concept. But Steve gives it the good old college try.  He does acceptably well in behaving as the character requires, but the reason Bilko's gambling gags, for example, evidently worked so well in the past is that Silvers himself was a DEVOTED, passionate gambler.  That patented expression of glee of his was REAL.  At least this film reminds us to look up the original. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What's impressive about this movie is that it doesn't try some phony attempt to capture the look or texture of the original Phil Silvers TV show; instead, in the writing of the Bilko character and the wink with which Steve Martin performs, it captures the spirit. There is a certain excitement and satisfaction in watching a con man pull of his schemes with charm and lack of shame -- that was the appeal of the original, and likewise here. "},{"Title":"One good film","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've never been much for army comedy, but I've always had a place for the actors in this movie, which is what persuaded me to watch this.  It was well worth it.  Wonderful family oriented type jokes, that will entertain all ages. Kudos to the cast, for wonderful performances. I hope we see a sequel. "},{"Title":"Why this shouldn't have happened....","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The trend of reviving old television series as films has had a few really entertaining results but unfortunately it seems that most attempts fall terribly flat.  This film is a perfect example.  It is always a mistake to try to remake a tv series as a film when the TV series was so dependant on the characterization of a key role by a key actor or several actors.The original show was The Phil Silvers Show NOT Sgt. Bilko.  Silvers WAS Bilko.  The strength of the show was not in how fresh and different the writing or the concept was but in the performance of Silvers.  If one takes him out of the mix you have a very average show concept....that translates to a below average movie.What's next?  A new movie called Sherrif Taylor that doesn't have Andy Griffeth or Don Knotts?  Unthinkable.... "}{"Title":"Sgt. Bilko, misfit in Army!","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An excellent comedy for the fans of Steve Martin, playing the role of Sgt. Bilko who is a misfit in the Army (along with his company), and more interested in gambling than Army. Slight romantic touch also. I loved it.  "},{"Title":"Another Mistake","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin should quit trying to do remakes of classic comedy. He absolutely does not fit this part. Like the woeful remake of the Out Of Towners, this movie falls flat on it's face. How anybody ever thought Steve Martin could even come close to Jack Lemmon's wonderful performance is beyond me and the same is true for this movie. Dan Ackroyd could have played the Bilko part better. Martin is great when doing his own original characters but fails miserably trying to recreate other people's classic work. It's a sad statement when the funniest part of a movie is contained in the first line of the credits when the movie is over. The line The producers gratefully acknowledge the total lack of cooperation by the United States Army was just about the only line that actually made me laugh. If you want to see the real Bilko, get hold of the original episodes of the Phil Silvers Show. Those are guaranteed to make you laugh, unlike this mistake that should never have happened. I put this movie in the same category as the aforementioned Lemmon classic and the remake of Psycho. None of them should ever have happened. "},{"Title":"Ah, finally. A good movie by Steve Martin","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a fan of Steve Martin (Dead Men Don't wear plaid, Man with 2 brains, All of Me, Lonely Guy etc.) I have been shuddering with the movies published in the last decade starring Steve Martin. There was nothing to make me laugh.Perhaps it is a cultural thing, some people in US have liked Bowfinger (which was as boring drama as any of the other movies he has made in the past 10 years). I was already thinking never to rent another Martin comedy, but a clerk showed this film and recommended it as the next big thing after All of Me. The film has a few hilarious moments that made me burst into such a laughter that my wife started nagging to me about it. That means that it is a movie worth watching if you like humor.  "},{"Title":"Sgt. Bilko","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Doesn't have the genius of Phil Silvers' 50's series, but this is a nice comic vehicle for Martin that, like the series, is successful because it doesn't take itself too seriously.  "},{"Title":"A really funny comedy for all ages","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sgt.Bilko was actually one of the most underrated movies i have ever seen. I had not heard about it until it was on tv one night.  I could not stop watching.  Some of the humour might be too good for lowlifes but i recommend you relish this opportunity at a great comedy. "},{"Title":"The Unanchored Tank","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For 50 years after world war 2 the United States was in a state where key segments of the economy were dominated by military interests. At the same time, because of the draft and wars, everyone in society had served, or was connected to someone who had.This allowed for a minigenre based on the notion of American cleverness in the midst of an inflexible military machine. Sometimes that machine was non-US military, for example in prisoner of war situations. Once removed are stories in other machines science fiction and corporate, but they always reference this military genre, and indeed the testosterone shots of action even reference their comic sibling.You can trace it, I think, perhaps starting in the comic, meaning Amrican, sections of The Great Escape, which immediately spawned TeeVee offspring in Gomer Pyle and Hogan's Heros. Then a second wave triggered by Catch 22 and MASH, both of which had been real life, then books, then movies, and in the MASH case, then TeeVee.But before all that, there was the Phil Silvers Show, about a Sergeant Bilko and this followed from Mister Roberts. A happy con man, who only committed harmless crimes, and then only as response to an overly crude system which attempted to limit his life. This was in the day when TeeVee shows mattered. You absorbed them instead of merely carrying them to work to chatter about. It wasn't particularly clever in any way, except in finding that crack between what we wanted in control and freedom. Its one large zone where Americans worked out how they think about forgivable, even endearing lies in a military context, a zone that has been appropriated by one of our political parties here.Because its big, it sometimes pays off in laughs. Stripes was pretty darn funny I thought. It had the twist of the misfits actually defeating serious foes, sort of folding in some Dirty Dozen. And sexual adventure.Now this, well before the cultural wars escalated. It tries to touch that sweet spot, like other remakes that manhandled Steve Martin. It is so unfunny, you actually root for the Army to be the stronger player. Yet another way to track how societies work out the handles on military power.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"I'm paralyzed from the hair down.","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sgt. Bilko has been making a mockery of the army since the 1950s when Phil Silvers was keeping the motor pool out of trouble and out of line on TV. The big screen version is funny in the same way, except take out Silvers and insert Steve Martin. Just like the TV show, the movie follows Bilko and his merry platoon of cadets as they fix cars at the speed of the cable company, while betting on each and everything that comes across them. That is until the army base is inspected by Major Thorn (Phil Hartman), a man who was sent to Greenland because of a fixed boxing match back in the day, a fight of course fixed by Bilko. Now it's payback time, but Bilko being the con man that he is, cuts corners and makes sure his men do as little work as possible. The comedic timing is good, and the various skits are amusing. Slight of hand from the new regular military cadet saves the day for the crew, and the movie finishes happy, except for someone who is sent someplace cold, much like Thorn was earlier in the movie. Not a great movie, but will bring a smile to your face, especially if you enjoy people making fun of the rigid discipline that is the army. Or you're just a fan of Steve Martin, he's the usual Steve throughout. Watch for various members of Saturday Night Live peppered throughout, especially the unusually low key Chris Rock. "},{"Title":"Coulda, shoulda, wasn't","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a disappointing movie. Considering the material---army life is always good for a laugh---and the stars, this movie should have been a fall down laughfest. It was worth a couple of chuckles, at best. Steve Martin has been much funnier than this and it appears that Dan Ackroyd should stick to dramatic roles, where he might follow Robin Williams' lead and someday win an Oscar. "},{"Title":"Laugh tears","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Again a movie, where I can laugh tears. Missing that kind of a movie for a long time.Great Performance of all main actors/actress.And I guess, that's the way the US Army really works o)Bucki "},{"Title":"funniest, most hilarious movie i've seen","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin rocks the movie, and fills the audience with laughter. Well-chosen characters and a good story makes me wonder why more people haven't voted a 10 for this one. I think this movie deserves to be in the top 250. "}{"Title":"Typical Steve Martin vehicle","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Typical of the movies that Martin has appeared in, (with the exception of Planes, Trains, and Automobiles) this is very un-funny.  If they felt compelled to make a movie about such outlandish Army hi-jinx, they should have set the movie back in the '50s...from the opening scenes this one fails, as two-thirds of the cast would have been on the Army's Weight Control Program.  The other problem here, is that a person with a gambling addiction is about as funny as one hooked on heroin.  Pass this one up FAST!  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece!","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It simply masterpiece - now such films come across all less often and less often! You look it and only to bow it would be desirable Steve Martin - the ingenious comedian. Each gesture, each movement, every a word - all has a fine comedy shade and is executed by it superb. Steve Martin in a role of artful asshole Bilko is not simply magnificent! It is fine, ingenious, mad, improbable! The brilliant proof of that in America fine and absolutely not trite comedies can sometimes put this film. This film is full clowns, lethal humor, fine dialog's and monologue... And Steve Martin - once again proves, that it one of the greatest comedians of the world. (We already knew it after Planes, Trains and Automobiles and Dirty Rotten Scoundrels!)One of the most favorite comedies! "},{"Title":"Even Steve Martin and Dan Aykroyd couldn't save this movie.","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Even Steve Martin and Dan Aykroyd couldn't save this movie from laying an emu-sized egg. Based on the classic Phil Silvers TV series, it bombed because A) It was updated to the 1990s, and B) The simple premise of the TV series was turned into a confusing, feeble and silly screenplay.The original TV series used a small cast of talented actors to portray lovable characters acting out simple yet hilarious pranks. To expand this premise into a 1990s movie was asking for trouble, and it shows. No one could pay me enough to sit through this stinker a second time. "},{"Title":"SAVE YOURSELF--DON'T WATCH IT!!","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a pure failure.  I am a Steve Martin fan, but even he can't save the tired idea and swiss cheese script.  Think Police Academy 7 and apply it to a military parody.  Yuck.I DO NOT feel the other user comments reflected the poor rating this film received (and rightfully deserved!).  It is extremely misleading.  I have often seen this film marked down to $3.00 in the grocery store and now I certainly know why.If only I could get my 90 minutes back...  "},{"Title":"Good, but a pale imitation","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My teenage children thought it was funny and have watched it a couple of times.  And, indeed, it is a light-weight, but nevertheless sound comedy.However, not even Steve Martin can reproduce the maniacal evil of Phil Silvers.  Martin is good natured and funny. Silvers was evil and hilarious.  Having seen Phil Silvers I rate the original higher. "},{"Title":"6 laughs at most &#150; even without the comparisons, this ain't very good","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sgt Bilko runs the motor pool at Fort Baxter. When a new recruit joins the unit it takes some getting used to in order to work within a culture of gambling and drinking.  Col Hall runs Fort Baxter, unawares of Bilko's schemes.  However when an inspection of the deeply flawed Baxter invention, the hovertank, occurs, it digs up old acquaintances.  The chief inspector, Major Thorn, once went against Bilko, got framed and posted to Greenland.  Now, head to head again, Thorn sets out to return the favour.Even without being compared to the classic TV show, this film is quite ordinary at best.  The plot is basically 3 or 4 separate adventures that run into a film &#150; the new recruit, the inspection by top brass, the marriage.  They could easily have been three different films such is the way they are delivered with little consideration for flow.  They all have a little bit of manic, goofy energy but nowhere near enough polish and effort to really shine.  Over the course of the film there are maybe 6 genuine laughs and 2 that I laughed because I really wanted to be laughing more.  The rest is mugging and energetic running around &#150; like Bilko himself, it feels like a smokescreen so we get distracted and don't see how hollow this film is.It is a shame because the cast are good on paper.  Martin tries hard but is more clown than master deceiver.  To even mention his effort here with the original role would be like comparing chalk and cheese &#150; there is no fair comparison.  Aykroyd is OK in a dopey role that he does well and Hartman is funny despite having not much to work with.  Sadly all three men deserve better material and have had such in the past.  Holbrook is a straightforward part and Mitchell plays it as such.  Cameos from Chris Rock and Silver's niece don't really add anything to the film and only add to the feeling of a cast who had hoped for more.Like I said, even forgetting the original series, this is a poor show.  Not very funny for the most part, preferring instead to go for continual motion and noise.  To watch this in comparison with the series is worse &#150; then it is shown up for all it's terrible weakness.  All I wanted to do after this was to go and find a channel showing the series.  So for that, and that alone, I thank it. "},{"Title":"God Awful","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The main reason I registered on IMDB was to warn people about this film. It is truly awful and I cannot believe some of the comments I have read praising the film.  Clearly they have never seen the original 1950's TV show - which is as fresh today as it was 50 years ago.Somebody said don't look at the rating score because it is better than that. I say, don't look at the rating score because it is worse than that (5.0 at time of going to print).  It is far, far worse than that.What is Steve Martin going to do next - remake Laurel & Hardy films?  Some things should NEVER be touched - Laurel & Hardy, Bilko, The Honeymooners etc. they were classics of their time.If you are in the UK - do yourself a favour and watch out for BBC2 schedules as Bilko is repeated almost once a week (and has been for about 40 years). "},{"Title":"I love Steve Martin, I don't love this movie...","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Basically a one-joke movie adaptation on yet another classic television show. Some scenes reminiscent of Martin's Roxanne, but basically only one or two scattered jokes throughout. After this film tanked at the box office in 1996, Steve Martin said that he didn't feel funny anymore and stopped movies for a while and wrote Picasso at the Lapign Agile. Luckily, he is back in form now.2.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"A Misfit Of A Movie For Martin!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The original Sgt. Bilko was wonderful and hilarious. This remake is neither. Even if you don't compare Steve Martin's Ernie Bilko to the original it's still a regression in Martin's acting skills reminiscent of his old Wild and Crazy Guy stand up routine. So if you liked that, this  is the movie for you. However, if you like Martin's more nuanced performances such as George Banks in Father of the Bride, then you will be disappointed with this one. Dan Aykroyd makes a forgettable appearance as the bumbling Colonel Hall. Phil Hartman gives a stellar performance as Bilko's nemesis Major Thorn. Glenne Headly turned in a notable performance as Bilko's girlfriend Rita Robbins. In fact one of the best scenes in the movie comes during a scene with Headly and Martin in a church. Daryl Mitchell gave a wonderful performance a goody-two-shoes Wally Holbrook. All in all this film is tolerable but not recommendable. "},{"Title":"NOTHING Like the Original","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a disaster. I remember the original TV show starring Phil Silvers. It was great. This was a mess. Mr. Martin keeps thinking he is an artist - I guess. There was a glimmer of his talent when he would fall into physical comedy - but then I guess he became aware of the fact that he was being funny and then just as quickly fell out of that. ...he's an artist ya' know.No one was funny in this movie. No one captured the feel and the ambiance of the 50's, Sgt. Bilko, or even the ARMY! 1/10If you want a talented artist, see Jim Carrey in The Majestic - excellent capture of the 50's attitudes and excellent acting by a brilliant comedian and a talented actor. (See my comments about this great flick. )- Zafoid "}{"Title":"Mediocre Military Affair","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* Alas, another sitcom from tv heaven has been called upon to provide the basis, for yet another motion picture. (72 at my last count). This is not to say this isn't a good thing. Some remakes help young folks relate with the past, and is nostalgic therapy for those who remember the original. Some are dead on, others are misfires and some are so-so. SGT. BILKO bivouacs in the latter.The plot is not a Pentagon secret. Master Sergeant Ernest Bilko is the company honcho of a band of boozing, betting and boisterous Bohemians. They are stationed at a mythical post called, Fort Baxter. This place must be pretty small, since only a full bird Colonel is in charge of the joint. The Colonel is portrayed by Dan Aykroyd. The key words in the last two lines are ...is in charge. The Colonel is in charge, but Sergeant Bilko is the man.Bilko runs every conceivable venue of betting, questionable activity and a myriad of other victim less crimes and rackets. It seems everybody on post is savvy to the game, except the poor Colonel. Enter Major Thorn (the late Phil Hartman), who has it in for Bilko for lousing up his career, when the sadistic Major was a sadistic Lieutenant years back. Thorn sets out to burn Bilko.Throw in some clever, humorous sight gags and you've finished up your inspection tour of this likeable comedy. Not hilarious per se, but pleasant. Makes one wish there were actually more Bilko's, than Thorn's in the military. "},{"Title":"A wild and crazy guy in uniform.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In this knock-off of the old Phil Silvers' tv series, Martin plays Sergeant Bilko, a scam-artist who doesn't let being the head of an Army Post motorpool keep him from enjoying the luxuries of civilian life. A simple minded flick which shows us nothing new, Sgt. Bilko has little to offer save acting as a diversion for the needy couch potato. An okay watch for those who like Martin's wild and crazy guy schtick. "},{"Title":"Bad Idea","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I say  Doctor Who  you might conjure up an image of Tom Baker , or Jon Pertwee or maybe Peter Davison . When I say  James Bond  you`ll almost certainly conjure up an image of Sean Connery while a small handful of people may think of Roger Moore or Pierce Brosnan . But when I say  Sgt Bilko  absolutely everyone will think of Phil Silvers . Unlike Doctor Who or James Bond the role belongs exclusively to one actor . And that`s the problem with this film version you`ll continually wish you were watching the old black and white show . In fact the whole idea of making a film version of BILKO without Silvers in the title role comes close to sacrilage  "}]