[{"Title":"One of the best sci-fi movies ever!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"123 out of 156 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the two best Star Trek movies ever made (the other being Wrath of Khan). Everything about this film is superb.... acting, set design, special effects, plot, and action. The story progresses at a breathtaking pace, and from the first 10 minutes when the Enterprise is locked in a life-and-death struggle with one of the best villains in all of sci-fi history (the Borg), to a perfect ending; there isn't a wasted or redundant moment. This is a film that both trekkers and non-trekkers can enjoy because the film explains enough about the back-story to get non-fans up to speed, and does it in a way that will keep the fans interest (check out the excellent opening sequence that introduces Picard's first encounter with the Borg and explains much of his implacable and obsessive attitude towards them throughout the film).In addition to fine performances from the crew (highlighted as always by Patrick Stewart as Captain Picard), the supporting cast is more than equal to the task. Its too bad that the crew didn't bring Alfre Woodward back home with them........ she's one of the very few actors/actresses in Star Trek history who have been able to match Patrick Stewart's personality, acting skills, and histrionics. Also, I thought I detected a touch of romance between the two that could have been further developed at another time.James Cromwell makes a perfect Zefrem Cochrane. It was a humorous touch to portray him as somewhat of an anti-hero, in contrast to the god-like reverence with which the characters in the film viewed him from a distance of 300 years.The protagonists in the film, the Borg, have never looked more dangerous. I'm glad that this film returned them to their roots, unlike their last few appearances in the television series in which they were becoming a little too domesticated.This is a film to savor for any science fiction fan. 9.5/10.0 ! "},{"Title":"Not just the best Star Trek film","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"117 out of 150 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Probably my favourite film of all time. The thing about First Contact is that it's not just about Star Trek. If you don't like Star Trek but can live through the first 20 minutes you'll find a gem of a movie which is as much about the future of humanity & an invention so wonderful as it is about Yet More Star Trek Plot.Warp Speed - they've been saying that since Captain Kirk. But how did it happen? and why might it all not happen, our future could be in ruins and one flight of one makeshift spacecraft some time after world war III will make all the difference.The on-screen relationship between Picard & Lily is totally magic, as is the relationship between the Enterprise crew members - you get a sense of team, of family.First Contact is one film I enjoy watching again & again. The flight of the Phoenix is one scene I totally love, along with the end scenes.The only sad thing about the movie is that you come away and deep down you know there is no Cochrain, no FTL engine around the corner. Well, not yet!I envy you, the world you're going to I envy you, taking these first steps "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best Star Trek film to date","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"104 out of 131 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact represents, at least to me, the pinnacle of the Star Trek movie franchise.  This film was, in my opinion, -by far- the best of the next generation outings, and perhaps the finest from the entire collection of silver-screen Treks.The Borg, a futuristic race of half-man, half-machine cyborgs from the other side of the galaxy, try once again to conquer the Federation, by attacking it at it's very core, our beloved Earth.  This time, however, the Borg have a plan B up their sleeve.  After the destruction of their main vessel, they send a small group of Borg back in time to 2063, a time when Earth is vulnerable after suffering massive casualties due to World War III.  Once there they intend to prevent first contact, an event that dramatically changes the course of human history, when friendly aliens discover humankind has learned how to travel faster-than-light, and make contact with the inventor of the warp drive, Dr Zefram Cochrane.Of course the Enterprise crew must once again save humanity from certain destruction, by following them back and repairing whatever damage they've done.  When they reach the 21st century, however, the Borg find resistance is not so futile, and begin to take over the crippled Enterprise, deck by deck.  Directing every move is the evil Borg Queen, played excellently by Alice Krige.Patrick Stewart is, as always, fantastic as Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Stewart's background in the dramatic arts shines as he convincingly portrays a somewhat troubled and vengeful Picard, determined to destroy the insidious Borg once and for all.The direction of Jonathan Frakes is flawless considering this film was his first attempt at directing on the big screen.  In a few scenes I get the feeling that Frakes was committed to squeezing the absolute best out of Stewart, and this he did, apparently with ease (earning him the nickname Two-Takes Frakes from production members).This film has it all.  A well-conceived, intricate and dramatic plot, excellent acting, fantastic special effects, and real emotion on-screen. Picard's chilling the line must be drawn here monologue to Lily represents a scene with such dramatic quality that is rarely seen in science-fiction films. You can completely suspend disbelief and feel the anger, the pain, the sheer hunger for revenge in this broken man.  You are there with him, the future of humanity is on the line, and not for a second will you think otherwise.Whether you are a Trekkie or not, this is a film you will enjoy, and while there are references to previous Trek happenings in the film (such as when Picard was captured and assimilated by the Borg several years earlier), non-Trekkie's should definitely be able to follow what's going on.All-in-all this is one of my favourite films of all time, and one that I can watch over and over and never get tired of.  If you haven't seen it, why not grab a copy and check it out?  I give it a well-deserved 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Next Generation's Finest Moment...","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"86 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek's successor to Gene Roddenberry, Rick Berman, never allowed the poor reviews for STAR TREK GENERATIONS to upset him; he had been given an 'obligation' to provide a transition film between the original cast's series, and his own 'Next Generation' films, and 'killing' James Kirk freed him to focus on the film he REALLY wanted to make, STAR TREK FIRST CONTACT. And he created a classic, a film that for many fans has become the 'definitive' STAR TREK movie.From the opening scenes, which re-introduce the 'Next Generation's' greatest villains, the Borg, finally achieving their long-time goal of attacking Earth, and literally tearing Starfleet to shreds, as Picard and the Enterprise are ordered to stand down (Picard had been 'assimilated' once by the cyborgs, and the success of his 'deprogramming' was in question), there was an intensity that 'Trek' films hadn't shown since THE WRATH OF KHAN. When Picard decides to disobey orders and go 'in Harm's Way', you nearly want to cheer! Turning the battle around, the Enterprise sees victory at hand...until they discover that the 'core' of the Borg mother ship has plunged into Earth's atmosphere, and gone back in time. As the crew glimpses a 'changed' Earth, with humanity totally assimilated by the Borg, they plunge after the mother ship, to prevent history from being rewritten.Quite an opening scene!The film breaks into two stories, each entertaining. In an era two hundred years earlier, with Earth reeling from internal wars that have devastated much of the planet, Picard realizes that the Borg is attempting to prevent warp drive creator Dr. Zefram Cochrane from ever completing his prototype spaceship, thus denying the galaxy to the human race, and leaving them defenseless against the Borg. As First Officer Riker and most of the series' regulars protect the feisty engineer (first introduced in the original 'Trek' TV series by hunky Glenn Corbett; in FIRST CONTACT, the role is played by James Cromwell, hawk-nosed, antisocial, and hooked on ancient Rock n' Roll music), Data and Picard must deal with the growing Borg infiltration and assimilation of the Enterprise, and the imperious Borg Queen (lovely Alice Krige), who seduces Data with a chance to become 'human'.Jonathan Frakes proves an excellent director, balancing the action, comic, and dramatic elements with sensitivity and skill. While most of the series' regulars have little to do (a problem that would never be resolved in the 'Next Generation' films), Frakes still manages to give each a bit of on-screen time to at least remind fans that they are present, and he even manages to provide a brief but funny cameo by semi-regular fan favorite Dwight Schultz, as the terminally shy Lt. Reggie Barclay.FIRST CONTACT has so many memorable moments that it is nearly impossible to pick a single favorite one out. Cochrane's use of Steppenwolf's 'Magic Carpet Ride' as launch music for his guided missile/spaceship...Alfre Woodard's Lily Sloane, hiding in terror from the Borg, but still able to lecture Picard on doing the 'right thing'...'Star Trek Voyager' regular Robert Picardo in a cameo as his medical hologram character, at a key moment...Data delivering the famous Borg 'tag line'...the Vulcan science party (led, although unmentioned, by Sarek, Spock's father), bemused at meeting the 'new kids on the block' for the first time...this movie has it all!There is only one major continuity error; the Borg, as cyborgs, depend on their human 'host' bodies to survive (a key factor in the film's climax), yet in one whole sequence they operate in the vacuum of space WITHOUT spacesuits! I cringe each time I see the scene, but I STILL love the movie!One other key element of the film cannot be praised enough; Jerry Goldsmith's score is one of his finest, combining the best elements of the STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE theme with a sweeping inspirational hymn for Cochrane, and eerie, discordant music for the Borg. The score is so profoundly moving that it could stand alone, as a symphonic work.Sadly, Berman and company never achieved the same heights with either of the subsequent 'Trek' films, but at least we have FIRST CONTACT, to show that a 'Next Generation' feature could be done 'right'. "},{"Title":"The Best Trek Film","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"56 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star TrekFirst Contact is the best Star Trek film in my opinion. Far better than the average Star TrekGenerations or any of the films featuring the original crew.I won't go into the plot too much because I hate spoiling it for fans and it is easy sometimes to give away too much. Let's just say that the cast of The Next Generation take on the inhuman Borg, one of the best race of Star Trek villains ever.There are no slow spots in this film. It is one big long action fest and every character is utilized. There are some terrific scenes and there is quite a bit of tension between the crew, particularly Worf and Picard. Picard has some harsh words for Worf at one point in the film and it really does look as though Worf will hit Picard. You could cut the tension in this film with a knife.I'd also like to mention the great job done by the beautiful Alice Krige as the Borg Queen. Again, there is not a wasted moment in this film and Krige does a brilliant job as the Borg Queen.I strongly recommend Star TrekFirst Contact-it is the type of film which you finish watching and feel as though you have spent your money well. "},{"Title":"Finally!","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"45 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek VIII First Contact - Stardate 50893.5Finally, after the dismal Generations outing, they got it right with this one! First Contact indeed is on par with the very best of the Star Trek films - The Wrath of Khan and The Undiscovered Country. Unfortunately, they won't get it right again to the present day (with the above average but still not as good Insurrection and awful Nemesis). The script is very solid, the acting above par (with kudos going to Alice Krige as the seductive Borg Queen and Alfre Woodard as the trusting Lily Sloane), and the score by Jerry Goldsmith again another hit. All of that combined with visual effects that service the story and not is the story makes this outing a spectacular success - a solid 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"The Action Entry","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"40 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Many of the Star Trek Films have relied heavily on character interaction, dialogue, and suggested events to tell the story.  Star Trek First Contact breaks from this tradition by producing a sharp, fast paced action film that never relents from beginning to end.  There are moments of reflection for the characters, but the movie has an inertia that makes the other entries in the franchise seem as if they plod along at five miles an hour.  The result is one of the most satisfying films in the series.Part of the appeal of Star Trek First Contact, is that the central enemy is the Borg Collective, which has surpassed all other villainous races in the Star Trek universe in popularity.  The central villain in this chapter is the Borg Queen, played by the chilly yet seductive Alice Krige. Krige is confident, convincing, and absolutely threatening in her performance, and seems to almost border on a character from a horror film.  She lends an edge that is unique from other villains in the series, and is perfectly suited to the nature of the Borg.  The design for both the Queen and the rest of the Borg is unsettling, and the story line and history of this race serves to illicit an emotional continuity between the events in the television show and the films.  Star Trek First Contact probably has the widest appeal of all of the episodes, in much the same way as Star Trek IV The Voyage Home did in 1986.  It is action packed, filled with decent visual effects,  clearly plotted, and supplies a threatening villain.  This is definitely the best Next Generation film to date, and one of the strongest movies in the entire series.   "},{"Title":"Attack Of The Really Slow People","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"36 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe jewel in the manure of the TNG library, yes, this is good as TNG gets and admittedly it is Citizen Kane compared to the rest. If you enjoy their Matriarchy castrated crew, you will adore the movie. Evincing the verisimilitude of antimatter powered toilets, I recommend drinking once the movie begins. Yes, the Borg are back, Starfleet, after seeing chrome dome weeping like a little schoolgirl with wet panties, has sent Captain Baldy way out of the action. Do not worry, he has changed his panties and put on a clean skirt. He is ready for action, the albino people with really bad skin are attacking earth. They are trying to stop humans from making any more of these movies; Zefrem Cochran must be stopped from his warp ship's completion. Baldy, having been Lucretius, I know, if he were alive he would be suing, I would too, shows Data how to blow them up but they run away in a flying turd ball into the past. When they get to earth, the warp ship was damaged, and Cochran keeps running away from them; I know, he must have seen their movies. I would have run away too their films suck. On earth, we are treated to Troi doing the worst drunk ever depicted on film and the quest to chase down Cochran and get him to save the future by making that requisite warp voyage to show us all how we may be pathetic, earth bound monkey boys now, but someday we will truly pack the gear, we be bad, just wait longer, honest. The bad news is that metallic turd ball beamed some albino zombies, who move as fast as the seasons, onto the Enterprise. They begin converting the ship into some kind of green lighted Disco while turning more and more of the crew into people with guts. The movie, if you can call it that, is two stories at once. On earth, the crew is still chasing Cochran trying get him to fix the ship and be in one of their movies. On the ship, the anti green Disco, a.k.a. the battle of the eunuchs is underway. Baldy puts down his dollies and returns to fight the war. They decide to go outside, I would too, and they blow up some albinos and prevent them for calling for reinforcement from Bad Skin Land. The castrated Whorf goes toe to toe with Heidi and backs down, they will abandon the ship; hey, disco isn't that bad. Meanwhile, the queen Borg has sex with Data's skin, I know, don't ask, watch for yourself CREEP OUT. Yes, she tries getting the access codes so she can blow them all to crap I wish I could have sent them, what's her E mail? Please, I would push the button; the ultimate act of humanistic sacrifice, I die but no more Star Trek fair trade.She tries to bribe Data with becoming the penultimate of all lobotomites, becoming a human being, yes, ever visited Auschwitz? Data acts like he joins her, Baldy, not on his period, saves the day with the old double switch gag that works on people who love TNG. I hope you are in to your second six pack by this point. Is this ironing your pants? I know, they like Star Trek, let them have this they think it is Solaris. Suffice to say, if you notice the Borg move really, really, really SLOW. They try camera tricks, oh, don't open that door! He is standing right there BOO! Outside, on the giant dish, one of them sneaks up on one of the crew. Come on, my grandma could outrun them with her walker; even if I gave one some skin creme and a head-start. This is the essence that all critics, who had IQ's in the three digits, attacked this putative classic for the world's slowest villains, bowel movements move faster. Look, make it realistic have them trip or fall. I love she doesn't read Melville but she knows the lessons of Moby Dick without reading it. Hey, why bother reading those stupid books, I pick them up osmotically from holding the book? He knows his audience if you know what I mean flatter them, they have never even opened a book without people wearing capes. Look, it is the best of the library, I grant you that. Forgive me, but that is analogous to saying Green Eggs And Ham is the best Dr. Seuss book. Yes, you are right, it is, but it is still retarded. Please, vote this to the back, I do not want to be up front with you, know what I mean? It's A Miracle His Brain Can Generate Enough Energy To Keep His Legs Moving. Lex Luthor "},{"Title":"Enjoyable mix of light TV touches and sci-fi drama","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When the Borg launch an attack on Earth, the Enterprise is sent to the neutral zone due to the Admiralty's mistrust of Picard's abilities as he had been assimilated in the past.  The Enterprise however, disobeys and returns to help destroy the Borg ship.  However a smaller ship escapes and travels back in time, causing the assimilation of Earth in the future.  The Enterprise follow the ship back in time and have to undo the damage the ship did on the surface to an experimental warp drive unit that will led Earth to it's first contact with alien life.  Meanwhile, on the Enterprise, survivors of the Borg ship begin to assimilate decks within the ship itself.The trend of the `even good, odd bad' continues in Star Trek with this good entry in the series.  Linking to previous story lines, the film starts immediately and continues at a good pace.  Where the previous time travel excursion for the crew was more funny than anything else, this film goes down a more dramatic route with the main plot not turning out to be on the ground (as I first thought it would be) but on the ship where the crew struggle to contain the Borg's advances.  This aspect works well - it is not edge of the seat stuff, but it is dramatic and involving.In contrast the stuff on the surface is more a side issue that is used well to contrast with the pace on the Enterprise itself.  There aren't many laughs but it does have a nice little bit of self mocking humour that raises it's head occasionally.  The cast (crew?) all do good work, but it is Stewart's film and his Borg past help to enrich his character well. Frakes does an able enough job as director but as an actor he has little to do, as indeed do most of those on the Earth aside from a cameo from Cromwell who adds humour.  Woodard is OK in her role but not as good as I've seen her be in other things.Overall this is a solid Star Trek film, which although not excelling in any one area, has a strong backbone of drama and action aboard the ship that works well with the lighter stuff on the earth. "},{"Title":"The Next Generation's best film hands down","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"23 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The next generation crew of the Enterprise star in their best movie. Picard and his crew hitch a ride back in time to save the Galaxy from being infested with Borg, by saving the drunkard who invented Warp Drive from being killed by the Borg. This Star Trek movie is nuanced enough for the 'trekkies' to get into, while still being very accessible to the rest of the cinema going public. Johnathon Frakes, for all of his smarmy, cocky demeanor, still I have to admit that he hits a home-run in this initial outing (now his Insurection is a whole nother story, one for a different day) This film is action-packed, features good performances, and is just plain fun. All those aforementioned traits easily puts it among the top echelon of Trek films.My Grade B+ DVD Extras Disc 1) Commentary with director/actor Jonathan Frakes; Second commentary with writers Brannon Braga and Ronald Moore; Text Commentary with Michael and Denise Okuda Disc 2) 12 featurettes (Making 'First Contact', The Art Of 'First Contact', The Story, The Missile Silo, The Deflector Dish,From 'A' to 'E', Jerry Goldsmith A Tribute, The Legacy Of Zefram Cochrane, 'First Contact' The Possibilities, Unimatrix One, The Queen, and Design Matrix); 3 Scene Deconstruction;Storyboards, Photo Gallery; Teaser & Theatrical Trailers; and Trailer for the Borg Invasion Hilton show in Vegas3 Easter Eggs In the Main Menu, click on the sun for a list of all the alternative titles considered; In the Star Trek Universe menu highlight a circle for an interview with Ethan Philips; In The Borg Collective menu highlight a circle for an interview with Alex Jaeger "}{"Title":"The finest adventure of the TNG crew!","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" STAR TREK FIRST CONTACT is the 8th movie in a series that has so far produced 11 movies.This is my second favourite of the Star Trek movies, second only to STAR TREK THE WRATH OF KHAN. Like STAR TREK THE WRATH OF KHAN, this movie can also be enjoyed by both those familiar to the Star Trek franchise and those new to it. Reading through the comments, I have noted comments from people who enjoyed it as a sci-fi action movie in its own right.I will sum up the plot with those unfamiliar with Star Trek in mind - an alien race known as the Borg apathetic to individuality go back more than 300 years in time to attack Earth, colonise it and absorb its inhabitants into its collective. Captain Picard of the USS Enterprise follows the Borg back to Earth to stop their plans.This very simple plot line brings an energetic story filled with virtually non-stop shoot-em-up action. Unlike most action movies, however, the antagonist is far more menacing. The Borg have no concept of individuality. It cannot be reasoned with. Killing one Borg barely has the impact of, say, removing one blood cell from a human body. The Borg in this movie are far more menacing than they were in the TV series.For those familiar with the Star Trek franchise, I can confirm that all the familiar faces from the crew in the THE NEXT GENERATION series all appear here - Picard, Riker, Data, Geordi, Worf, Dr Crusher and Troi.The movie represents a massive transformation from its predecessor, STAR TREK GENERATIONS. For the first time we witness many members of the TNG crew behave or tempted to behave out-of-character due to the scale of the situation they find themselves in. Without giving away spoilers, I can state that characters in this movie face the prospect of having to turn against one another.The acting across the board is top-notch. The actors' performances are so captivating that they genuinely invite the audience to share the feelings of their characters.Patrick Stewart deserves special mention because he faces the greatest acting challenge - reprising his role as a character he played for 7 years in the TV series and a prior movie - now having to play the said character, Captain Picard, in a very different manner. The Captain Picard of this movie is not the calm diplomat from the TV series, he is someone with anger-fuelled determination to get revenge on the Borg, who once altered his biology so that he became part of their collective for a short time. His performance has to be seen to be believed and is enough to silence critics who claim he is unable to play a hero.Alice Krige gives what is perhaps the best performance of her career as the Borg Queen. Her performance provides a perfect distraction from the major plothole - the existence of a head of the Borg collective. The Borg collective communicates as one voice with each drone being the same. So it could not feasibly have a single leader. When you see Alice Krige in action, however, you will find it easy to suspend your disbelief.James Cromwell has fun playing Zephram Cochrane, the inventor of the warp drive referenced all through the franchise. For those unfamiliar with Star Trek, the warp drive is a component able to make starship engines travel at hyper speeds. I found the Zephram Cochrane in this movie much more exciting to watch than the bland version played by Glenn Corbett in an episode of the original series.The real drawback with regards to the acting is Alfre Woodard. She was not a convincing lover or protégé for Picard and I couldn't help but wonder if she was drafted in as a replacement for Whoopi Goldberg. For those unfamiliar with the franchise, Whoopi Goldberg played a character named Guinan in the TNG series. She acted as a protégé ready to give wise words of advice to many crew members on the ship, including Picard.Jonathan Frakes shows that he is just as good behind the camera as he is in front of it. His direction brings a great science-fiction story to life that is genuinely thought-provoking, emotionally moving and highly entertaining. In my opinion, he should have been nominated for an Oscar for Best Direction for his work on this movie.The new starship Enterprise-E seems very dark and claustrophobic compared to the seemingly vast, bright and colourful Enterprise-D from the TV series and the previous movie. However, the Enterprise-E provides a perfect backdrop for the action to take place since its feel fits the tone of the movie perfectly. A wise decision was made to keep the bulk of the action on the ship rather than on Earth. Having said that, the events depicted on Earth help to offset the tension and allowing the audience to take a quick breath before being thrust back in again. The mix of light and dark works like a charm.To summarise, STAR TREK FIRST CONTACT is a first-rate entry into the Star Trek series of movies that can be enjoyed by Star Trek fans and newcomers to Star Trek alike. I highly recommend this for anyone who enjoys sci-fi action movies. "},{"Title":"Solid Next Generation Trek film with The Borg","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Released in 1996 and directed by Jonathan Frakes, Star Trek First Contact features The Next Generation characters taking on the Borg, a collection of species that have been turned into cybernetic organisms functioning as drones in a hive mind called the Collective. In order to escape imminent destruction by the Federation, a Borg mini-ship flees back in time to 2063 to prevent the renowned Zefram Cochrane (James Cromwell) from accomplishing the first warp drive and the subsequent first contact with an alien race, which later leads to the birth of the Federation of Planets. Alfre Woodard has a key role as a colleague of Cochrane.The Borg are an excellent villain and one of the greatest contributions of The Next Generation TV series, along with all the elaboration on Klingon culture. Here the Borg are augmented by the introduction of a Queen (Alice Krige), which some feel detracted from the impersonal and eerie race while others think enhanced them; it makes no difference to me.There are some gems to mine from the proceedings, like Cochrane's revelation of his carnal motivations for developing warp drive and Picard's hell-bent desire to annihilate the Borg. Speaking of Picard, Patrick Stewart carries the film with his unique star power, which is very different than Shatner, but just as effective. Interestingly, The Next Generation TV series never developed a prominent triumvirate like Kirk/Spock/McCoy, but rather a dyad, Picard and Data. Whereas this duo was core to the previous TNG film, Generations, and the last one, Nemesis, it's not as evident here until the last act when Picard attempts to rescue the charismatic android, but that's only because they get separated early on and Data ends up hanging out with the Borg Queen. By the way, Picard's self-sacrificial desire to save Data reveals a weakness in the script After the Enterprise is set to self-destruct, Picard only has 15 MINUTES to rescue Data and escape the ship, but Picard is shown having a meaningful discussion with Lily (Woodard). Why sure! Another gem of the film is the revelation of the alien race at the end, which prompts a Wow reaction to fans of Star Trek (although erudite Trekkies undoubtedly knew it was coming).There are other flaws, like the jarring and somewhat unconvincing excuse for going back in time and the questionable fiery confrontation between Picard and Lily. I say questionable because something about the sequence renders it slightly shaky; it may be the acting, the writing or some combination, but they needed to work out the kinks. Still, that scene has some good aspects, like Picard's line The line must be drawn HERE! and the build-up to it.While I favor 1994's Generations to First Contact because of the fascinating story elements, e.g. the Nexus, and the potent subtext (see my review) and even marginally prefer the underrated Nemesis (2002), this doesn't take away from the fact that First Contact is a quality installment in the series, which gets better with repeat viewings despite its weaknesses.The movie runs almost 111 minutes and was shot in the studio with location shooting at Angeles National Forest and Green Valley, Arizona (substituting for Montana).GRADE B "},{"Title":"First Contact","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is my favourite of the Trek movies, and although people complain about the dark design work not being part of Gene Roddenbury's message I'd wager it is closer to Roddenbury's idea then most of the other installments.Roddenbury's utopian idea was of a society of different races, colours and genders (individuals) working together to overcome bad people who want to do bad things.The Borg are the anti-Star Trek, they are the same, no individuals. They force their way of life on others, without feeling and without any care or consideration for what they may want.Cochrane symbolises us paranoid, reliant on money and cynical. He's built his ship for personal gain but by the end of the film is transformed by the consequences of the Phoenix's first warp flight.Data desires to be Human, to be something he's not, but in the end it's his own non-human lack of emotion and reliance on calculation and logic that saves the day.This is a film that celebrates individualism, understanding and team-work against intolerance, mindlessness and brutality. It also offers hope in the form of the Phoenix bringing to life a bright future from the ashes of the failed old one. Maybe it's not too late after all.This is Roddenbury's vision, just repackaged in a dark action film casing that sells well in this day and age. "},{"Title":"Borg queen is anomalous - or is it?","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is not a great film, but it is a good one. My measure of this is that I have not seen it for some years but I remember much of it quite vividly, unlike some other supposedly better films. Some parts could have been improved, I'm sure, and the logic is sometimes wobbly, but the art of enjoying a film is to get inside and accept it, not pick it apart as you go.My main problem on first viewing was the Borg queen. As other commentators have pointed out, the Borg, even if they are referred to for brevity as a hive culture, are a collective, they are egalitarian democracy taken to an extreme. The term coined by Kurt Vonnegut in The Sirens of Titan - Hypnotic Anarchy - fits the Borg rather nicely, indeed I wonder if that may not have been the inspiration for them.But a collective does not have a queen. That worried me, until I remembered what happens when the queen dies. All the flesh melts away, leaving a shiny metallic spine, that has red lights flickering inside and is evidently still alive, until broken, and the lights go out.Just as the Borg determined that it needed Locutus to be their spokesman, it seems also to have determined that humanoid species think in terms of leaders, individuals who hold the reins of state. So, like the Greek city states of old, they created one. The Borg queen, as can be seen in its moment of destruction, is a machine, a puppet. Far from holding the reins of state, it is controlled by the myriad strings of the collective.I would love know what arguments went on between the script writers, the director, and the producers, over this. Maybe this final scene was a compromise, that left both the dramatic value of the Borg queen and the integrity of the Borg concept intact. "},{"Title":"First Contact Lasting.","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek First Contact (1996) Dir Jonathan Frakes / Cast Patrick Stewart, Brent Spiners, Alice Krige, James Cromwell, Jonathan Frakes Eighth film in the series, and one of the most inventive. In 2063 a red alert is in progress on the bridge of the Enterprise. The crew witness an attack on 21st century Montana on a missile. The following day first contact is to occur, and the first warp flight by Zephram Cochrane. They must convince him of his duty as well as defend the Enterprise against Borg forces. Data is captured and placed under some sort of seduction by the Borg Queen. They attempt to render him human. Well written with exquisite production and visual elements. Jonathan Frakes, known as Commander Riker in the series, dons the directing chair and does a fine job. Patrick Stewart is always compelling as Captain Picard who leads the battle against Borg forces as well as rescue Data. Brent Spiners is superb as Commander Data whose fate as a robot is tested but obviously continuous. Alice Krige steals scenes as the Borg Queen. James Cromwell plays Cochrane with comic relief. It is obvious that he will be convinced of his mission but Cromwell does so with scene stealing success. Jonathan Frakes plays Commander Riker, also straight from the TV franchise. Star Trek fans will not be disappointed with its unique visions and exploits. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Good, but just that...","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This might be rated as one of the best Star Trek movies, but in my book, had some better expectations.Picard's crew have to fight a Borg attack against orders. An escaping Borg ball enters a time rift close to Earth, to cause a time distortion which makes a Borg collective of the planet. However, to avoid this, the Enterprise enters the same rift to battle the evil Borg Queen and its Army on the same time that an important discovery might open a new age of space exploration...Though Jonathan Frakes' direction is well done, story seems to stretch a bit on some parts, acting is OK and up to the TV series level, good special effects, but at least, we tend to forget the Generations movie and having a moment of pure Borg fun here.If no Original series characters appear here, we happened to see Robert Picardo's Doctor from Voyager and Dwight Schultz as the neurotic Reg Barclay.I would recommend if you are into the Borg rivalry... "},{"Title":"Best of the Star Treks","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is by far the best of the Star trek Movies. Though Wrath of Khan beats it perhaps in the swagger and style department (or soundtrack and cinematography), this film out performs the rest in a number of departments.Firstly it is good, proper sci-fi; it asks many what ifs about the nature of humanity in the Data/Borg Queen interactions and about how as humans we respond to oppression and invasion; not just of territory but also of culture and history. It also asks classic trek questions about the nature of our place in the universe.First Contact joins up a number of themes for the Trek-savvy audience, but is still a good film on its own without needing to understand the references - that's a tough rope for the writers to walk.There are great performances from characters specific to the film, like Alfre Woodard (Lily), James Cromwell (Zefram Cochran) and Alice Krige (Borg Queen). There are also some of the best Patrick Stewart (Picard) moments and a performance from Brent Spiner (Data) that lifts both actor and character far above what we have seen from him before. Perhaps the only downside of this film is that some of the really good performances do highlight the slightly limited range of Sirtis (Troi) and Frakes (Riker), who are fine, but not great.Overall, First Contact works so well because the good writing, performances and philosophical questions are bound up in a compelling story that balances high drama, humour and human interest. "},{"Title":"Resistance is futile!","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I haven't exactly warmed up to Star Trek as much as I hoped. I seriously like the concept and think it has great potential. With the original show, I just found it corny and not really giving the concept as much as I would have liked (or maybe that changes sometime after the first 12 episodes), I mean it is a decent show but nothing I would watch regularly. The Wrath Of Khan to me seemed to be a much better jumping on point to the series and elevated my opinion of the characters involved... However, this to me is actually on the same level, if not better then Wrath Of Khan.The plot is that Captain Picard 6 years ago was almost assimilated by The Borg an alien cyborg race of pure logic, taking away all individuality by turning you into one of them, if you haven't seen any Star Trek and this sounds familiar you're probably a fan of Doctor Who, while they are The Cybermen - this does add in enough to make the action more interesting. Now they have been spotted again and are heading for Earth. The Federation defends Earth and Picard, disobeying orders to not engage thanks to him being emotionally attached to the idea of killing The Borg and gives the only other ship to survive the critical information to destroy the outer part of the ship.The inner part of the ship travels back in time and assimilates the entire Earth in the year 2063, why The Enterprise wasn't affected is probably the single most nonsensical thing in this movie. They travel back following their wormhole and has to stop The Borg, who can evolve to have attacks rendered useless after too long and have a small part of the team help the scientist who created engines breaking the speed of light and test it in Space do so because it was that and that alone that turned alien heads and started Earth's inter-galactic relations, bringing in an era of peace.One complaint I have with the original Star Trek cast is Kirk himself. I mean this is a character that always has the right thing to do and follows through, always has his crew members in line and has no character flaws and if his orders are questioned, it ends up being the right thing to do anyway. Picard is so much better of a character. There is about a 7 minute long scene where he doesn't follow the crew's advice and be convinced that yes, they are right despite him snapping at almost everyone there. That just makes him more interesting. However, in terms of the supporting characters... I'll go with the original. They seemed to have more personality, with the new ones while they have personality it just isn't as memorable as lets say, Spock.One thing that might have people questioning is if they need to be a fan of the originals to understand what is going on. Well, yes. Being that it is a time travel story a mid-21st Century citizen does have to be explained all the technical parts of the ship and why things happened the way they do. Granted while it isn't the best writing to have a character say How come this, this, this and this happened? Because of this techno stuff 300 years ahead of your time! it still offers some explanation and granted if it didn't explain why Patrick Stewart mowing down Borg with a holographic Tommy gun managed to kill them that probably have me give a far bigger complaint.Onto quickly what I liked. Well, I liked the acting, The Visual Effects and make-up is extremely well done. I liked the story and I do like certain scenes such as the part where they walk with magnetized boots around the Enterprise. If there's anything I didn't like, it's small stuff I mean I cringed when the guy building the drive says You're all astronauts on some kind of star trek? and maybe it's because I haven't watched TNG but I personally thought Data being seduced by the desire The Borg Queen gives to make him human and giving him human skin just seems odd to me.I'd say if you want to see it, go ahead. It may have problems but the good to me outweighs the bad by a considerable amount and is probably my favourite Star Trek film. Either way though I am suckered in by the movies and thanks to this movie, makes me want to buy The Next Generation Season 1. I may not be a Star Trek fan yet but I am slowly making that change. "},{"Title":"Best Next Generation Film","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is just a superb film, compared to Generations its just a complete opposite 100% U turn. I fully enjoyed this film its so good its impossible to credit one specific part. I don't want to give away any spoilers, I'm just telling everybody that this is a movie that is not to be missed. Good screenplay good balance of CGI/Special Effects/ Drama. Good Directing, good acting. The sound and picture quality is just as good on DVD and Blue-ray as it was in the original theatres. Its hard to distinguish any drop in quality. Absolutely fantastic. I can't rate this movie highly enough. I rate this film a thoroughly Well deserved 10 out of 10 for every aspect. "},{"Title":"Jonathan Frakes proves he is not only an accomplished actor, but also an accomplished film director as well.","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Jonathan Frakes also known to us as William T. Riker from the Star Trek The Next Generation TV series directs this brilliant film filled with dazzling special effects. This is the 8th film in the Star Trek film series. First Contact is the first film in the franchise to feature no cast members from the original Star Trek television series of the 1960s. After two better known directors turned down the job, cast member Jonathan Frakes was chosen to direct to make sure the task fell to someone who understood Star Trek. The special effects in the film were completed by Industrial Light & Magic in less then five months.Notable scenes The best scenes in the movie is the opening scene, where we see the inside of a Borg ship, then showing us an assimilated Jean-luc Picard who wakes up from a dream. The destruction of a Borg Cube is also another notable scene. Then there is the zero gravity battle between the Borg and the crew of the enterprise. Data and the Borg Queen Something new here, a romance between a Cyborg woman and an Android man. Data encounters the Borg Queen for the first time. She is interested in Data to the point that she wants him to be by her side as her mate. He however is curious to experience the sensations the Borg Queen promises to give him. We also see a surgical grafting of skin on Data. A kiss between the two is the highlight.Tequila anyone ??? We see Riker and Troi getting drunk while sharing a bottle of strong tequila while on earth.Pumped up Picard. Picard is shown with his biceps exposed for the first time. He is given a more action oriented role in this film. There is a scene where Picard and Worf have an argument and Worf threatens to kill him.Plot The Enterprise arrives hundreds of years in the past, to April 4, 2063, the day before humanity's first encounter with alien life after Zefram Cochrane's historic warp drive flight; the crew realizes the Borg are trying to prevent first contact.Conclusion Worth owning on DVD or Blu-ray, and to really get a good home viewing experience I recommend you watch it with a Surround Sound system and a 34 or 29 TV of your choice. Or better still see it in a THX film theater near you.10/10 for visual effects and music, 8/10 for overall plot, 7/10 for overall acting. I have given a high rating of 10 due to special effects and pace of the movie only. I feel the overall acting and plot is not that good. Better plots were of Star Trek The Motion Picture, Star Trek Generations, and Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country. "}{"Title":"Without Doubt This Is The Best Of The Next Generation Movies","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The subsequent two TNG movies would disappoint. Both Insurrection and Nemesis were weak follow-ups to First Contact and not especially worthy additions to the Star Trek canon. But First Contact can't be overlooked. It's a pretty decent adventure that does a lot of things right, combining both the action and the humour and even a few scenes of philosophical reflection that characterized Star Trek at its best. The weaknesses - and they're present - can't be overlooked. The Borg were perhaps the best Star Trek bad guys ever, so perhaps it was inevitable that they would be chosen as the plot mechanism for the first TNG film, but still that choice seemed to suggest a lack of creativity. The Borg had been done to death on the TV series. Still, they served the purpose well and presented a realistic threat.In the story, the Borg have gone back in time to prevent Dr. Zefram Cochrane (in the Star Trek universe the inventor of warp drive) from making his first warp voyage, which leads to the Vulcans discovering earth. Without that first contact with the Vulcans, earth becomes easy pickings for a Borg takeover, and so the Enterprise follows the Borg back in time to make sure history turns out as it should. The time travel motif is perhaps another somewhat overdone Star Trek motif. Still, everything worked together pretty well. The story (or stories, because there were really two) were fun to watch and the cast of characters worked well together.The movie is set in two different locations. On earth, Riker and Troi and LaForge work with Cochrane (who's played here by the always solid James Cromwell) to make sure his ship launches. The humour of the movie is found here. To the folk from the future, Cochrane is a larger than life hero. In reality he turns out to be a hard drinking rock and roll loving guy who just wants to make enough money to escape to a lonely island - a reluctant hero at best who's none to pleased to discover that he's going to be remembered by history. This was an interesting reflection on larger than life historical figures, whose basic humanity can be lost in the tide of legend that overcomes them. Meanwhile, on the Enterprise, Picard, Data, Worf, Crusher and Lilly (Cochrane's sidekick, played by Alfre Woodard) do battle with the Borg. As always in encounters with the Borg it seems pretty hopeless (and, as always, you know that Picard et. al. will overcome them in the end - the question is how.) There's interesting reflection here on the issue of obsession, as Picard is motivated largely by his own memories of assimilation from the TV 2-parter The Best Of Both Worlds, and becomes very clearly a Captain Ahab type character who finally gets pulled back into reality by Lilly - the only one willing to question his authority.It's a decent movie - the best TNG movie, and one of the better Star Trek movies in general. "},{"Title":"First Contact A Success","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was my first time ever seeing a Star Trek video and I thoroughly enjoyed it.I feel it was primarily the solid character base that drew me in while I watched the film. As I have recently seen Avatar in 3D, I am confident that it wasn't the special effects that impressed me. I also felt the main plot was simply average as it built off common themes including, time travel, contacting aliens, and saving the world. None of these elements are particularly unique, thus I must conclude that the characters and their personal journeys are what made this movie a success. Captain Jean-Luc Picard in particular was a very dynamic character. Initially he had a strong sense of revenge and wounded pride from his past involvement with the Borg, as this became mixed with his desires to save his crew, his ship, and his loyal friend Lt. Commander Data his actions became increasing intriguing. Lt. Commander Data's development was also quite interesting. For those of you who are unaware, Lt. Commander Data is an android who desires nothing more than to be human. After Lt. Commander Data is captured by the Borg, he is partially given this very thing as a way to exploit a weakness. Throughout his experience after being captured he is engaged in an intriguing internal battle that really can't be given justice with words. A third character I found interesting was the Borg Queen. She wasn't very dynamic throughout the film, however she was very unique and clever. In these three characters, and many others, I feel the actions are very believable and that this was a key component in making the whole movie a success.I also enjoyed the clear-cut good guy vs. bad guy portrayal in the film. It was very clear that the Borg were bad and all the humans from past and future were good. It was clear that the Borg needed to be stopped to dramatically save humanity and of course they were. And after all the Borg's biological parts disintegrated in the plasma and the good aliens were drinking whiskey with crazy ole' Dr. Zefram Cochrane I couldn't but feel good about life in general. Between the classic clear-cut good vs. evil and this classic happy ending, I felt that this entire movie was crafted to draw in a side of moviegoers that is often neglected. It was a pleasant respite that I can only hope will be matched in other Star Trek movies that I will be watching in the near future. "},{"Title":"Curious adaptation of the Doctor Who script Earthshock","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I certainly hope Eric Saward got a cut of the profits for this curious adaptation of his Earthshock script from Doctor Who of twelve years before. In First Contact the cyborg race known as the Cybermen... er... I mean the Borg... decide to get rid of the threat posed by the human race by traveling back in time and striking at humanity, in the past, so it can never develop into that threat; the Doctor and his companions... er... Picard and his crew must follow them back in time to stop them. Earthshock was not my favorite Doctor Who serial, but I certainly have fonder memories of it than I do of Star Trek First Contact. It was better written, too. And more clever. "},{"Title":"I liked this Star Trek thanks to the almost horror like villains.","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This would be the last Star Trek I would watch in this particular set of movies (I watched and enjoyed the 2009 movie). I did not care to see the next movie as it did not look like it had a lot of money in it looking about as good as an episode of the television show. Having not watched that one I certainly was not going to watch the final movie featuring the next generation cast. As for the cast they are not my favorite group of people, I prefer the original characters, but this movie was okay to me. Granted it was an even numbered entry into the series, and as it goes for me I liked the even movies and disliked the odd movies. This one still has the cast I do not really like all that much, but it adds a really good set of villains known as the Borg, a group that resemble something seen in an alien/horror movie hybrid. Their scenes are good and well played out, as they stalk their prey at times like some sort of futuristic zombies. Unfortunately, these scenes switch to rather dull and sleep inducing scenes of the next generation crew helping a guy create the first warp engine. I also did not care for these scenes as they make the next generation crew so instrumental in the making of this important device, almost as if the writer was like Take that original crew! See my crew rocks more!. Thankfully, more of the movie has the Borg scenes and even Alice Krige as a rather nasty Borg queen. "},{"Title":"Another Addition to the Star Trek Universe","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek First Contact, directed & produced by Rick Berman, is yet another installment based upon the long lived Star Trek Franchise. Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) and the crew of the USS Enterprise must follow the Borg through a time vortex into the early days of war torn humanity. It is here where they are faced with the obligation to subdue the Borg's attempts at assimilating humanity and to make sure that Zefram Cochrane completes his first warp drive test flight. It will only be then that the human race makes first contact with another race is made and the original time line is restored. One of Star Trek's motifs has always been based on preserving life. It was done so by eradicating the evils that used to drive human behavior such as greed, violence, and war. By using these ideals as a base concept, Gene Roddenberry, Star Trek's creator, was able to generate a possible future in which humanity is freed from all prejudices and lives in relative peace throughout the galaxy. "},{"Title":"The Line Must Be Drawn Here!","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Where 'Star Trek IV The Voyage Home' had its multiple silly premises and only based on comedy, 'Star Trek First Contact' got the same concept (time travel to save the future) correct. Absolutely correct. Part 8 in the series was almost flawless in adventure, comedy, suspense, mystery and special effects. I admit, when I first saw this in theaters 13 years ago, I didn't like it. I wasn't really attuned to the Borg's background, but I knew it didn't have to do with individuality, which is shown with the Borg Queen. And I thought another time travel adventure, whoopee. When first released on DVD (or, I think video, back then) I gave it another chance and absolutely loved it. I've seen it now at least a dozen times. The movie screams adventure with multiple story lines &#x96; Riker and part crew have to convince a very human Dr. Zefram Cochrane to conduct the first human warp mission, Picard on his Ahab journey, Data and the Queen working together and, of course, the onslaught of the Borg. This movie was exciting, had sharp & funny dialogue (too many to print &#x96; but one very much worth mentioning So you're all astronauts on some sort of... star trek? which to my knowledge is the first time the words star and trek were spoken in the history of the series), a Data who could turn off his emotion chip in a blur (the number one flaw of the previous film was that he could not) and great confrontations between key players &#x96; Picard and Lily, Picard and Worf, Data and the Queen, and Cochrane vs. everyone. It also was great to see the cameos from Voyager's doctor and Barclay. The movie wasn't without flaws, but it certainly is worth seeing as the more adult 'Part IV.' "},{"Title":"Trek at its best","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Trek has seen some pretty big variety in terms of success in its feature films. We have the amazing (Wrath of Khan) and the absolutely horrifying (Star Trek The Motion Picture). There's also the average (ST Generations), mostly fanboy-pandering films which leave casual viewers out of the loop. Then, you have films like this, which have the double result of giving the franchise life and telling a great story. Perhaps it's no secret that good writing is what makes Trek more so than good FX, but when the two are combined in a spectacular manner, it is none the worse for the franchise.The story continues the saga of the TNG characters, but doesn't make it so obtuse as to cut new viewers out of the loop. They make it clear who is the villain, who is the hero, and provide all the background necessary to watch the film. In terms of continuity, it picks up three or four years after ST Generations, on a brand new Enterprise (NCC-1701E), captained by almost the same crew as the Enterprise-D. The film is fast paced, and jumps into the plot almost immediately. The stakes are incredibly dire and very close to home - the Borg have begun an invasion of the Federation, starting with Earth. The Enterprise is initially called away from the battle, but Picard disobeys orders and returns, using his experience with the Borg to destroy the cube attacking Earth.Within minutes, however, the Borg escape and travel back in time to 2063 - the year in which humans discovered the warp travel that allowed them to exceed the speed of light, and on the date when it was first tested - and brought them into first contact with the Vulcans, revolutionizing their society and ushering in the utopia of the Federation. Picard pursues them back, planning to stop their plans to assimilate Earth and change the future.The story is written by Jonathan Frakes, who is known for being a superb writer as well as an actor. He writes a great deal of character into his story, notably around Picard and the inventor of the warp drive, Zefram Cochrane, who has been alluded to repeatedly throughout TNG (and seen in TOS). Cochrane is portrayed by James Cromwell and is, far from being a visionary and a saint (as he claims the 24th century looks at him) is an alcoholic and driven by desire for money, not for the betterment of mankind. Yet, he changes throughout the film, and both Cromwell's fantastic acting and Frakes' script make it clear where and why he changes his views.Picard, on the other hand, is a different sort of character, who, with the invasion of the Borg, is finally beginning to truly feel the trauma that was done to his mind and body by being assimilated into their collective seven years prior. His infamous bearing and restraint is cracking heavily under the strain of his anger and desire for revenge. In one of the most famous scenes of the movie, a 21st century woman, Lily Sloane, confronts him with brutal honesty, comparing him to the obsessed Captain Ahab of Moby Dick, that the Borg have become his white whale. He succumbs to anger and realizes that she has been right all along. The dialogue, acting and complete honesty of the cast make his emotions seem realistic and terrifying.This is not just a good star trek film, it's a great film - period. For people who wish to be introduced into the Star Trek franchise, this is a great place to start, as it embodies what Star Trek is truly about. The battle sequences, based in land, space, and ship to ship, are at their best as far as Star Trek goes, and the movie's pace doesn't ever truly slow down. "},{"Title":"A little more epic...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" With the 'Generations' episode out of the way, TNG actually got a film in which to stretch their legs.A nice wide spectrum of battle scenes, drama and action mixed to keep the story going and well paced. The dive into Borg psyche was deep and at the time, unexpected. Stewart's usually unflappable captain now brooding like Ahab in space was a welcomed change.Rookie film director Frakes made for a great first effort, having helmed a few episodes and possessing a knowledge of the franchise only Nimoy and Shatner before him could have had, but with a better Trek depth of scope. (Nimoy's Trek IV aside).With a range of characters and a feel of keeping the 'timeline' true, this film works. "},{"Title":"Arguably one of--if not THE--most compelling of the Trek films","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" With the exception of Star TrekThe Motion Picture(for which I've yet to see more than a half hour of),I've seen all of the Movies based on the wildly popular (to put it MILDLY) TV Series,and I have to say that this movie has to be clearly one of the most entertaining and compelling of the bunch.INtroduced in season two of STTNG,and the subject of a season three cliffhanger,the Borg have returned, and nobody feels a more personal investment or haunting than Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart,in a wordgreat!). He and his crew are assessed (partly through his own doing) with the massive responsibility of fending off the species AND allowing for the first warp-drive flight of legendary space travel pioneer Dr.Zephram Cochrane (James Cromwell,in his first good guy performance post-Babe). Director Jonathan Frakes,for whom I wish would direct more stuff,preferably stuff NOT Sci-Fi oriented(because I like his technique with allowing actors to talk and react as much as fill the screen with dizzying action and FRX sequences),is able to skillfully guide this effort that is penned by Gene Roddenberry-disciple Rick Berman. The result is a film that is by turns thrilling,intelligent,ironic,gentle,noble,funny and even majestic,though the last part could be as much a result of the underrated score by longtime composer Jerry Goldsmith. Skillful performances by Stewart,Brent Spiner(1996 was a VERY good year for himnot one,not two,but three blockbusters STFC,Independence Day and a nice cameo in the John Travolta weeper Phenomenon),Alfre Woodward(as Cochrane's friend and apprentice)and Alice Krige(as the deliciously seductive and suspiciously individualistic Borg Queen)highlight this film,augmented by a Gang's all here supplement of regulars Marina Sirtis,Frakes,GAtes McFAdden,LaVar Burton and Michael Dorn.I won't be one to categorically crown this film the best of the Trek movies,but I will say that this is probably the crown jewel of the series(which has been in mothballs since 2002's coolly received Star TrekNemesis and hopes to get that shot in the arm with J.J.Abrams' prequel offering set to run this year)and,paired with The Wrath of Khan and The Voyage Home,ranks as a must-see in the cinematic invitations to Boldly go. "},{"Title":"first-rate action flick","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Until Nemesis came out, the Trek films followed a pattern in which the odd-numbered ones were either mediocre or downright awful, while the even-numbered ones were solid. II, IV, and VI were either plot or character-based. First Contact is the first true action film in the series, and one of the best overall (definitely the best of the Next Gen films).Picard's hatred for the Borg makes his battle in this film very personal. Patrick Stewart gives an outstanding performance. The supporting cast all do well, especially Brent Spiner as Data and James Cromwell as Zefram Cochrane, the eccentric inventor of the warp drive, who provides the film with some well-placed comic relief. "}{"Title":"The Next Generation's greatest voyage!","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek the Next Generation mirrors the classic when they take to the big screen for the second time to combat their greatest enemy from an original episode. Star Trek First Contact has everything the Next Generation fan needs action, suspense, star battles, introspection, a reference to classical literature, the original series ... and the Borg. The Borg have attacked Earth and the Enterprise D sails into battle. Picard uses his former assimilation to stop them, but a band of Borg escape to the mid 21st Century in order to stop First Contact. Apparently, this is the time when Zeframe Cochran makes his maiden warp voyage, triggering Earth's first contact with alien intelligent life forms. Now, it is up to Picard, Data, Riker and the rest of the crew to make sure the warp voyage happens, and that the Enterprise D is not assimilated into the Borg collective. Probably the best thing about First Contact is the action and star battles, handled well by director Jonathan Frakes. He is also able to go on an even keel in telling three stories at once. One is Picard's conflict with himself, a 21st Century Woman, and his crew. The second is Riker, Troi and Geordi making sure the reluctant Cochrane makes his flight. They deal with their shattered image of a 23rd century hero. The third is Data's dilemma as the Borg queen tempts him with humanity. Most Next Generation movies tend to favor two, three or maybe four characters over the rest. However, Frakes is able to work with story master Rick Berman to make sure every character is well motivated, characterized, and makes the plot work. This is my favorite of the Next Generation movies. "},{"Title":"ST FILM EIGHT Picard Takes no Prisoners of the Borg","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Following Generations, this is the first Trek film with only the TNG characters, featuring a new, more warlike Enterprise-E and new uniforms. The filmmakers followed a pattern established in earlier Trek films, in that they selected the best villain from the TV series (a la Khan in the 2nd Trek film) to confront the heroic crew. So, this film functions mostly as a sequel to the TNG episodes The Best of Both Worlds parts one & two, from 1990, in which the cyborg-race the Borg nearly succeeded in assimilating Earth. The Borg also assimilated Picard, temporarily, in those episodes, a process likened to a futuristic version of rape and slavery, so the most powerful elements of this story involve Picard revisiting this trauma; and this results in some of his less-civilized behavior, raising questions of just how far mankind has really evolved in the past 300 years. The Borg are sort of upgraded for this film, but this mostly involves giving them a more gritty look, superficially emphasizing the horrific aspects of their threat. Frankly, I preferred their appearance in the episodes, such as in Q Who?, where their skin merely lacked any pigmentation, rather than this mottled effect here. They were unique back then, whereas now they seem derivative of other sci-fi franchises, such as the Terminator films. Also damaging their unique qualities is the intro of a Borg Queen, created to have meaningful one-on-one dialog with Data and Picard. The concept of a queen ruling a hive is nothing new in science fiction, unfortunately; what always impressed me about the Borg before this was the lack of any central control - that is what really made them unique. But, enough with the negatives.Overall, the film is a blast. The first scene is a case study of how to begin a sf adventure - talk about transfixing an audience in the very first minute! The danger is that this first minute would overwhelm the rest of the film, but the script and first-time film director Frakes manage to provide a relentless pace for the remainder of the show, an almost non-stop action thrill ride to reflect the unstoppable nature of the enemy. Early on, we are thrown into the middle of a spectacular space battle (showing the Star Wars influence a bit more than the earlier movie Trek battles). It may be my favorite of any movie space wars, outdoing even the later Star Wars prequels. Of course, the filmmakers resorted to a time travel angle again (what is it with this obsession with time travel by Trek-makers since the eighties?), but they ended up selecting an interesting, pivotal moment in Trek history to wrap the story around - year 2063, to be precise. We are re-introduced to the famous Zefram Cochrane, the 'inventor' of warp drive, which resulted in the whole Starfleet/Federation civilization we first saw on the original Trek series in the sixties (Cochrane was first seen as a different actor in the original episode Metamorphosis). I found the reinterpretation here of Cochrane bordering on cliché scripting - the re-used 'loser-turnaround-to-redeem-himself' plot; this type of story always makes me wonder how a guy who is out-of-his-mind drunk half the time manages to out-think all the clear-headed scientists. But, the bottom line is that it's an exciting, even thrilling storyline, with Stewart's best moments as the angry, yet in-charge, even ruthless Captain Picard. His scene with actress Woodard towards the end, when parallels are drawn again with Capt. Ahab and Moby Dick, is worth the price of admission by itself. Of the regulars, Sirtis as Troi, Dorn as Worf and Spiner as Data also get to shine in their scenes. There are also some entertaining cameos by characters from the other Trek series. "},{"Title":"Phasers set for fun.","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My Take A good-old 'Star Trek' adventure. (This is an extension of the review I wrote in March 2007)I liked STAR TREK FIRST CONTACT the first time I saw it, but I really didn't make a big deal out of it. I wasn't exactly a Trekkie, and up to today, I'm not exactly a keen follower. But having seen the new STAR TREK, I was interested about Roddenberry's universe that I just have to see all the movies again, this included. Since its even considered the best STAR TREK movie ever (Even voting it above WRATH OF KHAN and THE VOYAGE HOME, arguably my favorite movies in the series), perhaps I will be able to appreciate FIRST CONTACT even more this time, with a larger interest in the field. Is it the best STAR TREK ever? Not exactly, but trekkie or not, every praise for FIRST CONTACT states truth. Superb acting , impressive special effects, and a story with enough wonder and action to hold non-fans' attention. Resistance is definitely futile! The story tells of the Next Generation Enterprise crew going up against a horde of creatures called the Borg, who plans to obliterate the Earth's history by preventing First Contact (man's first encounter with an alien race, ending Earth's 'primitive' age). Jean Luc-Picard (Patrick Stewart) bears a grudge with the Borg, led by a seductive empress (Alice Krige), since he once feel in their grasps. Of the four TNG feature films, FIRST CONTACT is probably and unanimously the best. Like any great science-fiction movie, it combines its spaced-out action and special effects (an early space dogfight, several wild shoot-outs with the Borg) with a strong story (time-travel, one of STAR TREK's specialties) filled with interesting characters (James Cromwell's misfit scientist) and ideas. Still an enjoyable sci-fi adventure for non-fans and a minor classic for Trekkies. Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Trek Films.","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's a mystery to many people, particularly Star Trek fans of long standing (such as me!), as to why a series that sustained a generally high level of excitement, tension and fun through most of its long run on television had such difficulty doing the same in feature films. It's also a mystery as to why the best successes in the latter medium were achieved in the even-numbered films (apart from the very last one, 10) while the odd-numbered ones were, at best, mediocre.This eighth offering in the movie series provides plenty of clues on the first mystery and happily continues the latter tradition to give us arguably the best Star Trek film so far.The film wisely includes two old favorites that made for some of the best television episodes &#150; the concept of time travel, and the Borg, a hated enemy. Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) and the crew of the latest Enterprise (NCC 1701-E) follow a Borg ship back through Earth's history to the early 21st century and the aftermath of a nuclear war, where the Borg hope to prevent the first warp flight, so that some Vulcans passing nearby will never realize that humanity is worthy of their attention, the two species will never meet, and the Federation will never come into being. Earth can then be conquered by the Borg.The film takes few pauses for breath as an exciting and entertaining story pits the crew in a life or death struggle with their old enemy. An away team meets the inventor of warp drive (Zefram Cochrane, played by James Cromwell) and has to persuade and help him to go through with his experimental flight. Meanwhile, one of his associates, Lilly (a great performance by the always reliable Alfre Woodard) ends up on the Enterprise where she teams up with Picard to defeat a Borg attempt to take it over.Humor and action are well used, but, as always with Star Trek, the film is at its best when we see the characters interact. A scene between Lilly and Picard, where she convinces him that only destroying the Enterprise can guarantee the Borg's defeat, rates as one of the best in the entire film series. The dialog is clever and the chemistry between them rings very true indeed.You'll probably get more out of this if you are familiar with Star Trek, but even if you're not, you're in for an intriguing and absorbing ride.Recommended. Rating 8/10. "},{"Title":"The Best Sci-fi in my opinion.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek has been going for 40 years and the most inspiring movie that they ever made is this one. The origin of warp drive, in every episode they say warp speed now in first contact we see how it was discovered. The plot of this movie 100% gold, the battle scenes are well coordinated and are good fun. A strong script and featuring Picard's worse enemy The Borg! I've watched this movie over and over again. Every time I think its brilliant, TNG really got there best moments in this film.Jon Frakes really got it right in this film, unlike Thunderbirds stick with trek JF! In conclusion this is (in my opinion) the best sci-fi movie ever. If you are looking for a deep, solid and action sci-fi. First contact is your movie. I have shown this movie to many people who are not trek fans and they enjoyed it a lot. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Growing into a genre classic","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I saw First Contact in theaters originally, I wasn't too impressed. It all seemed too pretentious to me, esp. the parts about the Borg queen and Data's emotions, and their sexual innuendo. Those parts still seem pretentious and nonsensical to me. But this kind of superficiality is as good as it gets in current-day movie sci-fi, so we had better learn to like it.And I *have* learned to like it. Most of the movie is so intense, so action-filled and so well-acted that it is a joy to behold. Many characters - of course especially Patrick Stewart and Alfre Woodard - are fiercely emotional and distressed to the point of impaired judgment. It's a brilliant portrayal of the characters. Great actors, great screenplay.I don't think it's possible to make a Star Trek movie that is better than the hilariously brilliant Star Trek IV - The Voyage Home. And I also have a soft spot for the first movie, the Motion Picture, which was really more sci-fi than it was typical Star Trek (and this is a good thing). But apart from those, First Contact is clearly the best Trek movie. It is, uncharacteristically, an example of both Star Trek *and* science fiction at its very best, and it's a movie worthy of many, many repeated viewings. It's becoming a true and classy science fiction classic.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Chronology","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Greetings You have a great site - I have recommended it to so many! However, currently there is an issue which requires your attention.I believe you may have inadvertently switched the release order of two films. They are Star Trek Generations (1996) and Star Trek First Contact (1997).Also The higher viewer-rated movie should probably be First Contact -please verify the voter results.Once again ... this site is great! Please keep up the good work! Au-revoir (for now) from The Great White North.Thank-you and Best Regards, Canadian Trekie "},{"Title":"First Contact is easily the best of the Next Generation films!","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek First Contact, released back in 1996, is easily one of the best Star Trek films and definitely the best film featuring the cast of the highly popular Next Generation television series.Instead of the usual technology based dialoge Star Trek plot which plagued the other three Next Generation films, Generations, Insurrection, and Nemesis, First Contact, follows a fairly linear plot, involving time travel and of course, stopping the most popular of Star Trek villains, the dreaded Borg.Jonathan Frakes, who plays Commander Riker, does a terrific job in his first feature film, while not only knowing his cast members very well, he also is able to bring out the best performances from each of them. A pattern which did not follow on the ninth film, Insurrection.Terrific visual effects, a great musical score by the late Jerry Goldsmith, and a commanding performance by Patrick Stewart, makes this easily the best Star Trek film since The Undiscovered Country.Three and a half stars out of four! "},{"Title":"Getting ready to see it again!","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This installment (8th) is a feast for the Star Trek fan.  The plot is not exactly new (go back in time to save the present) but the story is a good one.  Its action-packed, plenty of Star Trek type humor.  Its one of my absolute favorites. Patrick Stewert and the rest of the usual Cast do an excellent job in their roles.  Hidden humor is there for the fans, and plenty of action (and some humorous moments) are there for the 'rest'.  The special effects are up to their usual high standards.In short.  If you are a fan, you will not want to miss this one.  If you just like fairly serious (not tongue-in-cheek) sci-fi, you will probably enjoy this one as well.  If you don't care for the futuristic, well... "},{"Title":"Pretty decent sequel","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  By itself, Star Trek First Contact wasn't fantastic, but it's probably one of the better films out of the series.  It was the first Star Trek film to include all of the Next Generation cast and none from the original series.  Overall, I enjoyed this one.  There were a couple scenes where I was left wanting to see more.  For example, I think the ending was rushed.  I would have also liked to have seen a longer battle sequence in the beginning between the Borg and Starfleet. Either way, I recommend this film to everybody.  "}{"Title":"What a freaking brilliant film!","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First Contact is the second big-screen outing for the cast of The Next Generation, after Generations wiped out the Enterprise-D we are treated to a brand new ship (the Enterprise-E) the new Enterprise is fantastic and the mixture of CG and Models used is stunning, the plot has the Borg sending a ship back in time to prevent Zephram Cochrane (James Cromwell) making his historic first Warp-Flight however the crew of the Enterprise follow the Borg back in time, what follows is not only a race to repair the Phoenix in time but also Captain Picard's (Patrick Stewart) personal vengeance against the Borg for his assimilation 7 years prior. Terrific space battles, excellent cast chemistry put this one notch above The Wrath of KahnRating 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Second Best Star Trek Movie Ever","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was a great awe-inspiring adventure through space and time.  In this adventure of the Star Trek we find the Borg at it again.  Well the Borg goes back in time and decides to take over Earth.  Of course our hero's go back in time as well to stop the Borg from taking over the future in the past, or something like that.  In this one as well we meet Zefram Cochrane who was in the original series episode Metamorphosis.  Of course the two people look completely different.  What the Borg SPOILER are attempting to do is destroy Zefram Cochrane and his space ship which can go the speed of light before he invents the warp drive which allows for massive space exploration for Earth. Well the crew goes to Earth in 2063 in Montana where the shuttle launch will take place according to history.  Of course Zefram Cochrane is a bit of a cowboy.  He drinks a lot, is a bit of a loose cannon and doesn't believe what the Enterprise is saying.  This is the only movie thus far that has really been a shining moment for the Next Generation.  The first movie and the next two just weren't up to par.  Here everything is in place.  There is a great story a lot of action and still yet we get to see more of the Star Trek Universe unfold.  The movie is excellently written and well done.  James Cromwell is a great Cochrane, but Tom Hanks would have taken the part but he was in conflict.  That would have been interesting.  He would have been the biggest star by far in any episode of Star Trek had he done it.This really lifts the whole Next Generation TV shows and series to a whole new level.  The only problem I have with this movie is that it is so dark.  Star Trek isn't supposed to be dark it is a positive vision of the future.  That is the only complaint I have of the movie.  There is also an appearance by Dwight Schultz who plays Reginald Barclay, the nervous assistant to Geordi La Forge.There were some great moments here.  The scene where they go outside of the ship was excellent.  SPOILER also the scene where they do their takeoff in the first ever Warp Drive was excellent and when they meet the first Vulcan that was excellent too.  James Cromwell does an excellent job as Zefram Cochrane.  It was very suspenseful in parts.  This movie was just perfect in many ways.The new ship was good too.  The new ship has all kinds of new features and a different look.  It is nice looking.  Despite the movie I still cannot think of a place that Deanna Troi and Dr. Crusher occupy in the Star Trek Universe. Their characters are relatively week and contribute so little.  I actually saw Marina Sirtis speak one time.  She was pretty good but she was a bit snobby and not too exciting but it was interesting to see her.  But ignore them and watch this excellent Star Trek movie.  "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek film yet!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact worked well in all aspects. The premise of the Borg going back in time to conquer the Earth in the past was a truly frightening concept (though what would prevent them from making further attempts I'm not sure). The Borg themselves came across as genuinely formidable foes. All the cast members who portray Picard and his gallant crew were in top form. Even Marina Sirtis' Counsellor Troy was marginally tolerable in this installment. The subplot of the first light speed flight felt interesting and integral and not just tacked on. The costumes, props, and special effects were all top notch for 1996. All in all outstanding entertainment, 9/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best ST movies","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm not going into too much detail here, but i think it's one of the best Star Trek movies so far. In addition to most other ST movies, this one got some really convincing character scenes. And it has some really brilliant Borg scenes alongside with humor and great special effects. "},{"Title":"Resistance is Female","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This one is a fantastic installment in the big-screen Trek saga with the Generations cast flying solo (without members of the original 60s telecast).Alice Krige's performance is surrealistic and scary as the Borg Queen who libidonously (and otherwise) attacks certain male Enterprise crew members--an attempted brainwash technique--in order to infect and takeover control of the rest of the universe with Borg-collective half-machine, half organic consciousness.Also the supporting characters are interesting to watch, especially Alfre Woodard's highly expressive eyework and intense dialogue with the Capt.  "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek film","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I loved it.    I thought it was on the same level as The Voyage Home, Undiscovered Country and TNG series.    *Spoiler*   The attack on the Borg cube was awesome, especially when the Defiant passes by the Enterprise. Cool. "},{"Title":"The best Next Generation film","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Certainly the best of all TNG films, and one of the best star trek films generally. there are all the usual elements you would expect in a start trek film, but what puts this one above many of the others is the intensity of the borg encounters, broken up by the humour of trying to get first contact on schedule. the portrayal of the borg queen as the ruthless, yet seductive leader of the collective is also excellent. highly recommended film. "},{"Title":"the future is now....!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  while borg cubes are on their way to earth,to prevent the first warp drive experiment by the great historical mr cochran, the enterprise crew are trying to thwart their plans. one cube has managed to get to sector 001 (earth)and is trying to summon the rest to take advantage of a pre-federation earth using the main deflector. picard and co release the main deflector and destroy it as the others on the away team help cochran do his thing. cochran not having the historical visionary attitude but nevertheless has made his name along side newton and gallileo, is not impressed by the vision of himself in history, and you can relate to him because he's so much like the viewer of this epic sci-fi blockbuster. his memorable quote of the film being ive no visions in my eyes....ive got dollar signs in my eyes, so i can retire to a island somewhere with lots of naked women...thats zefran cochran....thats his vision first contact is acheived at the end with the vulcans detecting the warp signature and all is well, the crew then return to the 24th century after shaking off the borg and destoying their cube. fans like me will love this one....its got all you expect from the next generation. gene...you would be proud. "},{"Title":"Most Interesting, Still Ridiculous","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The problem with the Generations franchise of Trek movies is that there are too many people to squeeze into 2 hours and still introduce interesting villains, supporting characters and a STORY.  TREK finds time to interrupt what could have been a decent story with forced character-profile scenes that go nowhere except to interest fans of those characters/actors.  DATA is the worst of it.  After the horrible and disappointing subplot of Generations we get to see Data go toe-to-toe with the Borg Queen with lines that should have gone to Stewart.  There was no reason to involve Data except that he has a fan base and demands third billing (which surprises me that he isn't above Frakes since Riker has little to do but mug, chatter orders and provide exposition.)We also have to catch up with everybody - rank and duty changes, prosthetic updates, backstory vignettes - before we get into the story of this installment.  The Borg are sufficiently scary and nasty, but the Borg Queen character was a disappointment.  I like the idea of a mechanical, soul-less collective and the Queen just cut into that by posing the idea that there's a shallow, vain harpy at the center of it all.  Alice Krige played her with a sensuality that helped enahnce the character, but ultimately undermine the greatest of Trek villains.In the end I hoped Hawke would live and a few less-than-necessary regulars would die just so we could clear the slate for Trek 9. "},{"Title":"I hated it!!","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was really stupid.  I must be the only Trekker who didn't like it, and I don't get how anyone could.  The story is just so aggravating and the characters can't seem to get their act together.  Probably the worst thing about it is Data, who is totally out of character for the whole thing.  He gets his emotions switched on again, and all his logic and sensibility and former personality just somehow disappear (?), so his behavior is unbelievable.  Then there's this annoying Borg Queen character who just... Doesn't seem to make sense as a representative of the Borg, so her presence is really irksome in every scene.  It had a lot of other annoyances, too, but it's been a while since I saw it, so it's all a little hazy. Suffice it to say that this was a very unsatisfactory movie in just about every respect, and I couldn't wait for it to be over. The only good thing about this movie is the abundance of action scenes, and of course the effects.  All of that is very cool, but not enough to let me enjoy this movie.    If you want cool Borg stuff, check out the Next Generation TV series, where this alien race was dealt with in much more engaging and realistic plot lines that did not rely on character manipulation for effect.Star Trek First Contact  ranks just behind The Motion Picture and the Search for Spock as the worst Trek film, in my book. "}{"Title":"Star Trek finally done right","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Let me first say that I used to (somewhat of) a Star Trek fan, but ultimately I got tired of it, basically because I watched reruns of Voyager every day and found them to be very repetitive. I did try to watch some of the older movies a while back, but found them to be incredibly dull and/or incredibly silly and usually didn't bother to watch them to the end.Imagine my surprise when I was not only to actually finish watching this movie, but also found it very entertaining. I guess everything just fell into place for this movie characters that are finally allowed to show emotions (Picard lets his anger get the best of him, Data has feelings, characters make funny and sarcastic remarks), an enemy that's actually a threat, reasonably good special effects, and not as much quasi-scientific nonsense as usual. It's still Star Trek of course...don't expect explosive action or epic battles like in Star Wars or suspense like Alien. But if you're looking for an entertaining sci-fi movie, this movie is certainly worth a look.*** out of **** stars "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great, we meet the Borg, and Picard and all other lovable crew members we've met in the next generation tv-series. The special effects are pretty good, and the plot is interesting, and there's some very tense senses Picard's anger/hate towards the borg, and the confrontation between Picard himself and Word. "},{"Title":"Best Trek up to 1996","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact, up to that point, was the best Star Trek movie ever. It had everything it needed, the hero (Picard), the villan (the Borg), and plenty of action. It was a classic, one you can easily remember throughout the years. As someone that has followed Star Trek, especially The Next Generation all of my life from early childhood, this movie allowed me to see a side of the characters that I've never seen before, put in a situation that they have never been in before. I love Picard's personal conflict in this movie with the Borg because of his past and how he wants revenge on them. I like how more of how Data with his emmotion chip was shown. It is the first time really that they've shown Data in an emmotional situation, being captured and seduced by the Borg queen. Plus, you get to see more of the history of the Star Trek universe, with Zefram Cochrane, who you've only heard about briefly in Star Trek episodes. And, finally, my favorite scene in First Contact is near the end where Picard and Lily are alone in the conference room where Lily is trying to convince Picard to activate the self destruct to destroy the Enterprise and the Borg. Overall, this is a great movie that I believe the most people, Trek fans or not, will enjoy. "},{"Title":"No longer the TV series but it rocks!","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Since the Enterprise D has been destroyed in the previous movie, there had to be a new one, E. The new ship is very different, no children are aboard, no longer an exploration vessel, a darker cinemathography, dark story, hence a different feeling. It is very different from the TV series and the previous movie, but it is very good anyway.Good story, superb acting by Patrick Stewart and the rest of the cast, cool special effects by ILM. What do we want more? The best TNG movie so far, let´s wait for number X. "},{"Title":"The best of the three Picard films","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek is one of my childhood lovables, and Captain Picard and his crew are the best of all! Star Trek First Contact is the best of the, so far, series of three films with Patrick Stewart and Co. The story is exactly what Star Trek is all about! The Borg Queen is fantastic and James Cromwell has been given a role not so usual for him, which I appreciate a lot, he is excellent! I like him more as the brilliant drunkard Dr. Zachram Cochrane than as one of the many Army guys he plays. However, I have found two little flaws which do strike a Trekkie like me, and which maybe somebody will care to explain first, the Borg are still partly organic aren't they? How come they can breathe in outer space (the scene on the hull)? I don't believe they can... Then, at the beginning one guy says the Borg control decks 28 to 11, later on Picard states the Enterprise E has only 24 decks! Oops, somebody did not pay attention. But, all in all, this film is wonderful to watch, Jonathan Frakes deserves great respect for having made a superb Star Trek film!  "},{"Title":"Second Great Trek","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *****Spoilers*****I rate this Trek just behind 'The Wrath of Khan' as the second best Trek installment.  Quite simply, my only gripe was the ending.  *Spoiler* It would have been more satisfying to have Picard somehow overpower or trick the Queen to her death.  Having Data do the deed was poetic, but didn't completely release all the tension the film artfully builds.Great ensemble cast.  Great score.  Great plot.  Great action.  Great mood. OK ending.7.5 of 10. "},{"Title":"Ooooooo...","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact is hands down the best Star Trek movie out there. As good as The Wrath of Kahn was, I was and will always be a bigger fan and have more respect for the Next Generation Crew over the Original Series. The score for this movie by Jerry Goldsmith is quite possibly one of the best scores for any movie, ever, in existence.  It creates the exact aura necessary for the movie.  This flick featured great performances from Patrick Stewart (honestly, one of the best actors ever, just watch the episodes and see what a bad ass he is, even when he's a minor character)(Capt. Picard), Brent Spiner (Lt Cmd Data), Alice Krige as the Borg Queen, James Cromwell (Cochrane), and Michael Dorn as Lt. Cmd. Worf. Which isn't to say that the others didn't do a good job, but their wasn't much to them.  It was cool seeing Neal McDonough in the movie, even though it's horribly disappointing that he wont be able to come back for any more. So back to the movie, great plot, and the second best enemy in the Star Trek franchise (the first be Q, who could never get a movie, i mean he's cool, but there's no point in giving him one).  Too bad Voyager had to go and make the Borg so wussy and weak after all their bad-assiness in TNG.  Really really looking forward to 10 as 9 was entertaining, but really just a mediocre episode.  And Generations was actually a good movie too, so you naysayers should give it a second chance, I mean, Malcolm McDowell, fantastic lighting (i mean really, really good) and the beautiful and powerful destruction of the Enterprise-D, how can you ask for more? "},{"Title":"The Best Trek","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First Contact is the best Star Trek has been, and likely the best it will ever be. This movie has a great plot (Earth discovering warp in the past) the greatest villain in the Borg, spectacular supporting performances from James Cromwell and Alfre Woodard and wall to wall action.In the peak-and-valley Star Trek franchise, this is the highest peak. It can be easily enjoyed by anyone who has not seen or is not familiar with Star Trek, but is still meaty enough for the ardent fan. One mishandled scene involving Steppenwolf stops this movie from being perfect. But still, a strong recommendation. **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"There is no thrill like First Contact. among most of the Trek movies. Like that's saying much.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I despised `Star Trek Insurrection'. `Generations' was a weak mess. Only instalments VI and II had any claim to being half decent. Thank God that this one is actually okay too.Plot? Yay, the Borg! See this is what happens when you have an interesting enemy. Not some mad scientist, or whale aliens or people-with-funny-faces. The Borg are good and it gives the writers a chance to incorporate stuff from the Trek mythos that will please all fans without alienating those unfamiliar with the original source. This time the Borg are travelling back in time to enslave the human race. Guess what - the Enterprise crew must stop them! Go trek!Acting? They're the same as ever. Go watch the series. The others in it. are grand.Is it fun? Sure. Frakes, acting and directing here, is actually reasonably okay with the Trek cam. He did some decent episodes in the series and he's capable of getting the Trek action across here. There's more tension than Trek normally generates (being as cosy as it is) and certainly enough action to keep you involved. You also don't want to strangle the participants, which is a great step up from the sequel. It's quite dark too, with a lot of shadows, which makes this perhaps the moodiest instalment of the series (along with `Wrath of Khan'). The score is typical Trek (because it's got the Trek composer) but all-in-all nicely accomplished.This isn't a brilliant movie of course. Part of this is the confines of the Trek universe and morality. People have grown up with these characters and know how they'll ultimately behave. Even the attempted disparity of the emotion chip with Data isn't all that surprising. That does not do the movie favours in my opinions, when you have a pretty good idea about how it will all turn out. Still this is the nature of such film franchises, and I can accept that. It does give a `2-part episode' feel to it (albeit with a slightly heftier budget for SFX), though a decent 2-parter at that. It's not worthy of cinema money, but fans of the series should certainly enjoy it. That would lend itself to a 6/10 for me then because, as good as it is for a Trek movie, there are a lot better science-fiction movies that it can't quite live up to. "},{"Title":"Excellent Star Trek Film!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I find it so interesting that people seem to like this Star Trek film so much better than the others.  Don't get me wrong, I totally agree that this is a great film, but I thought the other Star Trek films were just as good as this one.  There really isn't much to complain about in this film.  The special effects alone should be enough to get you in the theater, they are just mind-boggling!The story in this film is really quite interesting and definitely keeps you on your toes.  You can't wait to see what happens in the next scene.  For the most part the story is quite good, but the film does pose a few questions.  For instance, if time travel is so easy to do, then how do they police it and how do they keep the Borg from just going back in time again?  Also, why is it that the Borg won't attack anyone until they seem them as a threat when they go around the galaxy enslaving and conquering whoever they can, I'm sure a lot of the beings that they assimilate are not threats at all?  Anyhow, that little plot point struck me as odd.  Other than that, the story seems pretty good to me.  There were a few minor things though that I didn't really like.  I couldn't stand that stupid Nicky The Nose character on the Holo-Deck, he looked SO STUPID!!!  Such a minor little thing, and could have easily been remedied.  Oh well...The acting is top notch in this film.  All of the core Star Trek cast members pull off a great performance.  ...And I have to mention that Marina Sirtis and Gates McFadden look fantastic in this film.  James Cromwell and Alfre Woodard were nice additions to the cast.  Also, I have to mention Alice Krige, she did a superb job as the Borg Queen!All in all, if you like the Star Trek films and haven't seen this one, you really ought to see it.  If you're just a fan of sci-fi films in general you should see this film.  I hope you enjoy it, thanks for reading.-Chris "}{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek first contact was a wonderful film, filled with nonstop action and adventure! A movie to see again and again! I loved the suspence, the special effects, and the atmosphere this movie gives off! It was a wonderful experience and I highly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Great visual effects, great dialogues, great story.  Everything was stunning.  This definitely was the best movie in the series.  Even my sister, who's not a Trek fan at all, enjoyed it a lot.  I loved the opening sequence.  Brilliant direction from Jonathan Frakes.   Highly recommended for sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"BORING","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  spoilers*I don't understand why people liked this movie so much. It broke so many rules.Other people pointed out that the Zefram Cochrane in this movie bares no resemblance to the original Zefram Cochrane from the original series in terms of character. Why they did this is beyond me but it was lame and detracted from the movie. Yes of course with Wrath of Kahn the same actor was alive but that's not my point. Kahn in Wrath of Kahn acted like the same person from other original TV series. Cochrane not at all. "},{"Title":"Better than Generations","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First Contact is a pretty cool movie it has action, and some comedy. The Borg make it worthy to watch and the new bad girl the Borg Queen. James Cromwell does a good job as the man who discovered warp drive. In all I give Star Trek First Contact a 4 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Sadly, this movie going experience  was rather tainted by an idiot who  kept stating the obvious things  throughout the movie. However,  I did like this film quite a bit. It probably  had the best ensemble characters  the series has ever had. Alice Krige,  James Cromwell and Alfre Woodard  were all exceptional in this film, and  the crew acted rather well. However,  the downside of the film was the fact  the crew members emulated Zefram  way too much, which brought about  a silly tribute-type picture. However,  the anti-gravity action scene was  exceptional, especially when Worf  just starts beating everyone up. A  good edition to the series. "},{"Title":"the best star trek film i've seen so far","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I haven't seen all the star trek films but I've seen 5 out of 9 already, and so far, i have to say that Star Trek First Contact is my favorite. It's amazing how they were able to come up with all these ideas. Even if sci-fi isn't your favorite genre, i think you'll enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Best of the Star Trek movies so far","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The best of the Star Trek movies has a worthwhile enemy in the Borg, separate storylines of a 21st century woman getting to grips with the world of the Enterprise crew and the story of the inventor of the warp drive.The Borg queen makes a worthy adversary for Patrick Stewart on top form as Captain Jean-Luc Picard.  "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I say this because this one is by far the darkest Star Trek movie so far.  The addition of the Borg Queen was a great move.  I actually did envision much the same thing when I first saw the Borg in the STNG.  And come on people, even the Borg have to have a controlling influence.  Anyway, this movie is most certainly worth seeing even if you are not a real Star Trek fan.  It is very exciting and it moves very well. "},{"Title":"Best Star Trek Movie Ever","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact had a fine cast, including Patrick Stewart as the French Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Brent Spiner as the android Cmdr. Data, Michael Dorn as the Klingon Lt. Cmdr. Worf, Jim Cromwell as the historical Zefrom Cochrane who must make first contact with the Vulcans (guys with pointed ears), and Alice Kruge as the evil Borg (guys that are half machine) who tries to take over the U.S.S. Enterprise. The best scene out of the movie is where Picard and Worf are fighting the Borg in space suits on the outside of the ship, and Worf shoots one and says assimilate this.  "},{"Title":"2, 4, 6, 8...","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I know some may disagree, but this seems to follow the ST movies pattern that the even numbered films are better than the odd numbered films.  First Contact is the best of the TNG films so far, and ranks up there with Wrath of Khan (ST2), Voyage Home (ST4), and Undiscovered Country (ST6).  Looking forward to seeing Star Trek 10... "}{"Title":"Why did they have to do that?","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the best Star Trek movies.  The biggest drawback of the movie for me was that they ruined one of the greatest sci-fi enemies of all time by adding a queen bee twist to the Borg.  All Borg story lines after this movie (Voyager) are ruined as well because of this.  Beyond that major problem added to the Trek world, the movie on its own was very good. "},{"Title":"The darkest Star Trek movie ever","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A great movie that will make the fans of the original Star Trek (like me) love Picard and his crew. Good action, fantastic visual effects, Jerry Goldsmith music and the darkest atmosphere ever experienced in a ST movie. Also some interesting information revealed on earth's entrance to the federation.Just enjoyable!10/10 "},{"Title":"The Borgs always rock the house!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For me, the best Star Trek film ever, and since I'm a HUGE Star Trek fan, one of the best sci-fi films ever.The Borg are a truly tremendous enemy and Picard (Patrick Stewart) and Data (Brent Spiner) are excellent as always.  There is some great action in this film as well as some wonderful Star Trek moments.As a non-trekkie you may only see this as an average sci-fi film, but if you're a Trek fan and haven't seen this film then you really should. Magic!Rating = 9/10 "},{"Title":"Just great","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Like any film series, some are better than others. One of my early nominations for best was Wrath of Khan but, as others appeared,I felt The Undiscovered Country came equal, but First Contact tops my personal list.(The following paragraph may include a spoiler.)It has all the menace and appeal of the TV series Borg episodes, but, for me, two scenes are the absolute highlights. The first is the space walk on the Enterprise's hull (which brought back incredible memories of seeing Destination Moon when I was 10). The tension and unreal quality of the fight under zero gravity was superb. The second scene was the scene between Lily Sloane and Picard in the ready room which climaxes in Picard's smashing of the display cabinet. This scene is absolutely pivotal to the development of the plot.The Borg, courtesy of the big screen, are able to be more dangerous and nasty than their TV counterparts and the special effects involving them are second to none. "},{"Title":"best next gen trek movie","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First Contact is by far the best next gen movie to date. great story line carried on from the t.v great looking new enterprise. it has the humor that was lacking in generations but is not to soft like insurrection. great acting as usual from stewart and spiner backed up by the supporting cast. great first movie from director frakes. "},{"Title":"50% of First Contact is brilliant, 50% of it is average.","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If I could split this movie into two parts and give it seperate scores for each, I would.*** warning, spoilers ahead ***The scenes with the Borg are outstanding. I would give this section of the movie a 10 out of 10 easily. The tension and action is incredible and the performances of the cast are outstanding.On the other hand, Zefram Cochrane is completely unbelievable as the person who invents the first faster than light engine on this planet. He acts like a fool and seems to be drunk about 90% of the time. He is also completely different from the character of Zefram Cochrane in the Original Series episode Metamorphosis. (Who appeared to be reasonably intelligent and believable as the man who invented warp drive)Even if he was intelligent enough to do this, how can a few people living in a remote area of Montana build such a ship? Look at all the resources that NASA use just to launch a space shuttle into orbit. To do anything like this would require all the resources of NASA and billions of dollars. Zefram Cochrane doesn't appear to have either of these things.Overall I gave First Contact 7. For the Borg sections I would give it 10. For the Zefram Cochrane scenes I would give it 4.In short, watch it for the Borg scenes as they are outstanding. Just ignore the bits with Zefram Cochrane! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Star Trek Film to date","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Warning this review contains spoilersWow what can I say about this film.  This is the greatest Star Trek film to date, and the darkest.  From a great story to the greatest soundtrack for a Star Trek film.  Star Trek First Contact delivers.  The plot is that the crew of the Enterprise-E must go back in time and stop The Borg from changing Earth´s history for the worst.  The Borg want to prevent first contact and Zefram Cochrane´s first warp flight.  Picard and his crew must the living legend, after the Borg try to destroy Cochrane´s warp ship.  The Borg then try to assimilate the Enterprise, and Picard and his crew must battle them and the Borg Queen.This film contained excellent acting and great special effects.  The guest stars in this film give wonderful performances.  James Cromwell portrays a Zefram Cochrane that doesn´t want to be considered a historical figure.  He doesn´t consider himself great, unlike the Enterprise crew who worship him.  He also brings humor to the story.  For example, he gets Counselor Troi drunk, which is a classic Trek moment.  Seeing Troi get drunk is worth the price of admission alone, and when Cochrane plays¨Magic Carpet Ride right after lift off.  Alice Krige plays the Borg Queen to perfection.  The Borg Queen is ruthless as she is beautiful.  She is chilling as the Borg Queen.  She is considered to be one of the great Star Trek villains, she is the best villain since Khan in Star Trek II.  I loved the scene in which she seduced Data.  The Borg Queen is a memorable Star Trek villain.Alfre Woodard plays Lily Slone (Cochrane´s assistant) to perfection.  Lily is tough, but she is compassionate.  She is a character that won´t take what anyone dishes her.  I like the scene where she stood up to Picard and calls him Ahab.  This film can be viewed by non Star Trek fans, which is what makes it great.  You don´t have to know the background of the characters or be familiar with the episodes to enjoy this film.  This film is a masterpiece of Science Fiction.  I advise you to pick this one up. I give this film an A+  "},{"Title":"a worthy entry","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film was a worthy entry into the Star Trek saga. Though you might need explaining if you haven't seen the Best of both worlds episodes of the next generation, everyone might like it. It featured good writing, directing, and performances, as well as little in-jokes for Star Trek fans. You won't be disappointed.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Wonderful Sci-Fi movie.  Crappy Star Trek.","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm always disappointed to hear people (usually fans of TNG who didn't like TOS) say that this is the best Star Trek movie of all time.  It's easily my least favorite, especially of the NG movies, *IF* we're rating them as Star Trek movies.  This movie, honestly, feels like a Sci-Fi/Horror movie that was, at the last minute, mapped onto the Next Generation crew.Star Trek shouldn't be, primarily, about action, and that's precisely what this movie *was* about.  I nearly walked out of this movie when I saw it in theaters, and the only reason I didn't was because the tickets on which I'd gone to see it were free from a local radio station.  For my money, if I'm in the mood for a 'Trek' movie, I'll go rent Insurrection.  If I want a good action/horror/Sci-fi movie, though, I'll rent this one. "},{"Title":"One of the most overrated films of all time","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I respect the opinions of those who like this film, but I don't feel the same way they do. They say this is one of, if not the best Trek film and I just don't see how it can be. For me it's nowhere near as good as the other Trek films that i' ve seen(1, 2, 7, and 9), but overall it's not a complete waste, just not the masterpiece it's said to be IMO.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!This time the crew of the Starship Enterprise go back in time to destroy the borgs before they can turn everyone into a mindless robot. Of course, like most films of this kind, the good guys win and another sequel followed(A much better one in my opinion)and one is in the works.Great effects, and acting, but slow-paced, and a mediocre plot. **1/2 out of *****.  "}{"Title":"My number 115 movie","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek  First Contact is my number 115 movie. I am NOT a Star Trek fan, and I have never seen 5 minutes of the series at one day. I liked Star Trek 8, because it is a good action movie, with satisfactory amount of suspense ( at least for an sci-fi-action movie ). I think this is the best of the Star trek movies. Again, I am no Star Trek fan, not at least a bit. One of my friends is Star Trek fan, and he likes everything that has Star Trek in it, and my other friend hates Star Trek, but actually he has never seen it, and we always make fun of the Star trek fan. All in all, I rated this movie 8/10 and consider it as the best of the Star Trek movies, because it has the most suspense, the most action and the best acting, I think. I heard that Star Trek fans were disappointed by this movie, but I do not understand why, since I was not as a non-Star-Trek-fan. I recommend this movie to action fans. If you have any questions, feel free to ask them, and my friend will answer them for you. CU; Rinho. "},{"Title":"NOT A PILE OF PANTS","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is one good dose of sci-fi shenanigans. Quite spooky this time round, with a sinister feel we haven't seen before in the Star Trek series. Brent Spiner as Data steals the show again, and this is by far the rootin' tootinest piece of sci-fi hokum to have come from the next generation crew in years. This is one neat film, and I like it cos it's really good. "},{"Title":"The best Trek film by Light years","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is easily the best Trek film, only Wrath of Khan comes close. The action scenes are spectacular and the story and performances are brilliant. Particularly good is Brent Spiner's Data and Alice Krige's Borg Queen. Not only is this the best Trek film ever but it is one of the best Sci-fi films ever. "},{"Title":"Worth watching, just try to ignore the plot holes","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  And some immense plot holes there are... )  But, anyways, it severely outranks it's predecessor (ST7) and successor (ST9). One of the only reasons I like Star Trek, is because of the Borg, and I was thrilled when I stumbled across this movie in my local video store (ST movies don't get to air in theatres here in Norway). So I rented it and ran home to watch it. I loved how nasty the Borg looked in this movie, but I was a bit dissapointed that they brought the Borg Queen into the picture, because it takes a bit of the idea about how the Borg work. (that they are truly an interconnected collective of beings, each one being part of the whole). I won't get started on the rest of the plot holes, as I could fill up a couple of pages commenting on them. All this aside, it makes for good viewing, and it's the ST movie I've seen the most times. I give this an 8/10 on my Trek scale. It's right up there with ST6  "},{"Title":"Star Trek at its best.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact is one of the best films in the Star Trek series and the best for the Next Generation cast.  The beauty of this film is that it takes elements from the original series and expands upon it while paying homage to its roots in the USS Enterprise NCC-1701E which resembles in many ways the Enterprise in Star Trek The Motion Picture.  There is wonderful character development here and all the cast has their moments in the film. You actually identify and feel with the charcters as they wage this battle against time and the borg. Picard struggling with Locutus, his wanting revenge made Picard more real than he has been. The borg queen trying to seduce Data gave him some depth also. It think Worf said it all with Asimilate this! From start to finish this movie shows what Star Trek really is that the human adventure is just beginning. "},{"Title":"The best trek movie by far","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is by far the best of the star trek movies.It is fast pace ,a good comedy element with Zefran Cochrane being the unlikely inventor of the warp drive,and the terror of the deadly Borg.Patrick Stewart as Capt. Picard plays the part with real feeling as he wrestles with his hatred of the Borg.The climax with the eventual First Contact ends the film in great style. A must buy for any Star trek fan or someone who likes a good action film. "},{"Title":"A successful link to the chain of Star Trek movies. *** (out of four)","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact successfully continues the series, originally created by Gene Roddenberry, keeping fans in its grasps. It seems as if every few years Paramount releases a new Star Trek movie, and although they usually prosper at the box office, there are only so many ideas that can be portrayed involving the Enterprise, the starship housing to our traditional characters on board, including Capt. Picard (Patrick Stewart), Data (Brent Spiner), William Riker (Jonathan Frakes), and the Klingon, Worf (Michael Dorn). Screenwriters Brannon Braga and Ronald D. Moore breathe fresh air into the continuation, providing it with lots of energy, spirit, and engagement.This time the crew of the Enterprise must travel back in time before mankind made its first contact with extraterrestrial life forms. In 2063, there was a flight, piloted by a brilliant inventor named Cochrane (James Cromwell), observed by an alien race, the Vulcans, who interpreted man had become advanced enough to meet another race of beings. The Borgs, an evil alien race, part flesh, part technology, start from the 24th century and plan to travel back in order to prevent first contact and rewrite history. Another catch the Borgs plan on populating Earth instead of humans. Only Capt. Picard and his faithful crew can prevent the Borgs from permanently altering human history.The film is directed by Jonathan Franks, who went on to direct Star Trek Insurrection in 1998. Like all previous Star Trek movies, this one stimulates a believable atmosphere aboard the Enterprise drifting amongst deep space. Everything from the long, stretching corridors to winding hallways, to the convincing futuristic technology and profound decks, the locations on the set are entirely credible.I did not like some of the dialogue; it is often too expository and descriptive. We want the filmmakers to show us the story, not explain it to us, and in many incidences the characters end up explaining the plot to us in clunky,  hard-to-follow subtext. The film does have its fair share of action scenes and exciting activities, but several of the character's motives are not fully examined. Take the Borg queen for instance, we know what she wants because of the conversations that transpire. There is a thought-provoking subplot featuring Data and the Borg that queen that feels forced into place in order to spike up discussions and reveal important information the filmmakers are to lazy to show.One place in which this film strongly succeeds in is special effects, costume design, and make up effects; several of these variables were nominated for an Oscar in 1996. Probably one of the most evident examples of the movie's convincing visual arena in the Borg race themselves. The Queen is a perfect villain, with slippery, slimy texture, deliciously portrayed by Alice Krige, the aliens look as real as you and I. She induces a kind of sensuality I have never seen before, and don't expect to again. Star Trek First Contact offers visual stimulation of a quality audiences seldom witness.It is fun to watch James Cromwell (LA Confidential, The General's Daughter) in this role. At first I did not think the part of an eccentric inventor fit him. However, as the story continued I bought the character completely. Along with a unique performance by Alfre Woodard, the two supporting performers prove how adaptable they can be.Star Trek First Contact contains tension from the opening shot to the closing finale. The conflict is introduced and complicated very early in the picture, leaving little time for the development of almost anything. The filmmakers obviously expect viewers to be familiar with the Star Trek series, thus they skip the introductions. Nonetheless, for a movie to inform audience members not familiar with the series and at the same time keep the attention of die-hard fans, that takes masterful filmmaking. Star Trek First Contact is not quite at that level of achievement, but it is a stable link in the traditional chain. "},{"Title":"Excellent Star Trek adventure","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact, the eighth film in the series and the second for the Next Generation crew, is one of the best Star Trek movies to date. This one ranks right up there with the three other even-numbered Star Trek films. The fourth (The Voyage Home) and sixth (The Undiscovered Country) Star Trek movies are still my favorites, with this one's on par with the second one (The Wrath of Khan). First Contact is about the Enterprise crew's battle against their most lethal enemy, the Borg. If you've watched the TV series, you'll remember that at one point Capt. Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) became a member of the Borg. This immediately sets the story in motion. The Borg travels back to the 21st Century to destroy the first time warp mission, with the Starship Enterprise right behind them. The Enterprise crew comes in and tries to stop the Borg from letting this happen. One of the things that works best in Star Trek First Contact is the well-written screenplay which gives all the actors well-written parts. Stewart gives a strong performance as Picard. Jonathan Frakes (as Riker), Brent Spiner (as Data), LeVar Burton (as LaForge), Michael Dorn (as Worf), Gates McFadden (as Crusher), and Marina Sirtis (as Troi) are all terrific. All of these characters are given something to do which was sort of lacking in the previous film Star Trek Generations, and they make a very good impression thanks to the terrific writing. Also very good in Star Trek First Contact, the three guest stars. Alfre Woodard and James Cromwell are wonderful as two civilians from the 21st century who are helped by the Enterprise crew. Cromwell is a hoot as the man who invents warp drive. Also impressive, Alice Krige as the Borg Queen. Totally unrecognizable, Krige stands out as one of the best villains (or in this case villainess) in the Star Trek movie series. The special effects also get high marks. I think Star Trek First Contact boasts the best special effects in a Star Trek movie to date. The sound effects are also top-notch. And Jerry Goldsmith's music score is outstanding. The films' dark tone keeps this one from being the best. Some of the violence is a little disturbing a times, but only a little. Jonathan Frakes does an exceptional job in his directorial debut here. It's a job well done! Star Trek First Contact is excellent entertainment. For Trekkies, this is a must-see.***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"By far the greatest cinematic outing of any Star Trek film..","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the movie that Star Trek should measure all of its standards by.  There are wonderful characters in this film, the Borg Queen, Lily, and Cockrane, all of them exceed any other guest character in previous films. Once again Brent Spiner and Patrick Stewart dominate the film with their acting, but that is fine all the same, Jonathan Frakes spends a lot of his time in the sun also, everyone does.  The plot once again involves time traveling, this time to stop the Borg from preventing the first warp flight of man kind.  Granted that anyone who watches this movie will be able to predict the victory of Picard and company over the Borg, but who could have ever thought of meeting the man who made warp speed possible, this is an excellent sub-plot in the movie. Just about every scene in this movie stands alone, and the viewers are treated with a brand new Enterprise.  From the first shot of the bridge you will be impressed.  The screenplay is the best out of all the other Star Treks, and it is wonderful seeing Picard make the transition from captain of the Enterprise to a self-destructive obsessive hunter, thirsty for revenge.  Kirk and company never looked this great!  The best dramatic scene is the one where Picard and Lily talk about abandoning the Enterprise and destroying it.  Patrick Stewart shows not only viewers but critics that he truly is a gifted actor.  The scene is one of the movie's best, and will always be remembered amongst Trekkers.     With dazzling special effects, wonderful dialogue,an excellent score, an exciting plot, important messages and captivating action sequences.  This trek outing will satisfy even the most uptight trekkers. If only Star Trek could always be this good.   "},{"Title":"By far the greatest cinematic outing of any Star Trek film..","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the movie that Star Trek should measure all of its standards by.  There are wonderful characters in this film, the Borg Queen, Lily, and Cockrane, all of them exceed any other guest character in previous films. Once again Brent Spiner and Patrick Stewart dominate the film with their acting, but that is fine all the same, Jonathan Frakes spends a lot of his time in the sun also, everyone does.  The plot once again involves time traveling, this time to stop the Borg from preventing the first warp flight of man kind.  Granted that anyone who watches this movie will be able to predict the victory of Picard and company over the Borg, but who could have ever thought of meeting the man who made warp speed possible, this is an excellent sub-plot in the movie. Just about every scene in this movie stands alone, and the viewers are treated with a brand new Enterprise.  From the first shot of the bridge you will be impressed.  The screenplay is the best out of all the other Star Treks, and it is wonderful seeing Picard make the transition from captain of the Enterprise to a self-destructive obsessive hunter, thirsty for revenge.  Kirk and company never looked this great!  The best dramatic scene is the one where Picard and Lily talk about abandoning the Enterprise and destroying it.  Patrick Stewart shows not only viewers but critics that he truly is a gifted actor.  The scene is one of the movie's best, and will always be remembered amongst Trekkers.     With dazzling special effects, wonderful dialogue,an excellent score, an exciting plot, important messages and captivating action sequences.  This trek outing will satisfy even the most uptight trekkers. If only Star Trek could always be this good.   "}{"Title":"Diagnostic Preference","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact is a SUPERB action, sci-fi thriller. A true classic that should be remembered from generation to generation. With a stunning performance by Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes, Brent Spiner, and Alice Kriege, it will keep you on the edge of your seat. This classic is not just among the best of the Star Trek series but the entire Science Fiction genere as well.  "},{"Title":"Most definitely best of the series as of yet.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In one word excellent. Impressive debut by fellow cast-member Frakes. Especially interesting are the scenes that take place on the ship. The opening space-battle is breathtaking. The conclusion is also very nicely done (and obviously inspired by Close Encounters of the Third Kind). "},{"Title":"Picard at his finest!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After watching the highest moment in all of four Star Trek series, The Best of Both Worlds two-parter, I wondered how being assimilated by the borg would affect Picard's judgment, his personality and his command ability. First Contact tells that story extremely well.  We finally see a Jean-Luc Picard that is different from the dry fuddy-duddy we've known.  Armed with an understanding of the Borg and an ability to hear their thoughts, Picard is driven to stop his ship and his planet from being assimilated at all costs.  As the Borg take over the new Enterprise, his mission to stop them from interrupting humanity's first contact with alien life slowly becomes a personal vendetta, to avenge the assimilation of his crew, countless civilizations and most of all, himself.  Helping him keep his wits intact is a fine performance from Alfre Woodard as Lily, who's one of the few actresses that can match Patrick Stewart in acting ability.  Also excellent was Michael Dorn as Worf.  We got to see the newer, in charge, red shirt Worf that had evolved into a command presence on Deep Space 9.  He too was the only one that could stand up to a captain on the edge of insanity.  To lighten up the film, were two other story arcs, the Borg Queen seducing Data to retrieve codes to access the computer and Riker and crew fixing the Phoenix with help of Zephram Cochrane.  Cochrane played by James Cromwell, is how I imagine great icons of our history like Lewis & Clark or Thomas Jefferson.  His motivation for this historic event is money.  He feels like no hero.  This film is one of my favorite sci-fi films and the second best Trek film (Wrath of Khan still on top!)  I hope for Star Trek 10, they can pull of the magic of this one. "},{"Title":"one of the best star trek movies","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best Star Trek movie there is. contact is a dark Sci-Fi movie, which gave it a PG-13 rating. this is my favorite of the star Trek movies. It had a lot action. The music was really good. The plot was even better than the other two. The other ones were sorta  not as good as the show The next Generation. But this one delivers. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes Star Trek movie. I mean a die hard Star Trek fan.                     "},{"Title":"A rehash of the TV episode?","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film certainly has entertainment value!  With the Star Trek equivalent of World War III erupting full size on the movie screen, it's a special-effects dazzler!  Unfortunately I can't speak as highly of the storyline and acting.My problem is that this seems to be a new rehashing of the TV series episode, The Best of Both Worlds.  Since we've already HAD a Borg episode, do we really need another?  Well...true, I guess we can allow another Borg episode, since it was entirely possible they could return.  But I still have that lingering feeling that I've seen it all before.More than the evil Borg plot, various pieces of the film are also drawn from bits of the TV series.  Like the alien coming on to Data, to which he replies he's fully functional.  We've already seen this...it's no longer funny.  And we also now have Data with an emotion chip and Geordi with 20/20 vision without his prosthesis, two cases of characters having their uniqueness stripped from themselves.What's particularly annoying to me is the fact that the inventor of the Warp Drive turns out to be a crazed alcoholic, who seemingly couldn't even dress himself in the morning let alone work on spacecraft propulsion systems. It's the one sore spot in the plot development, and a disappointment to see the screenwriter develop such a character.  It's utterly unbelievable! Anything as important as the Warp Drive certainly would not have been invented in a colony of outcasts!Aside from that, there are still some great moments, cool special effects, and of course, seeing the Borg get their comeuppance does give you a good feeling toward the end.  But ultimately, I would pick any of the earlier Trek films before this one.  This one's good, just not great. "},{"Title":"Excellent, well produced, directed, acted, thoughtout film","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star trek First Contact is truly the best Star Trek film ever made.  I would have to say it just barely tips the scales over star trek The Undiscovered Country and the excellent Wrath of Khan.  This movie has great direction from Jonathan Frakes, who for once is able to order the captain around in his directors chair.  Unlike Leonard Nimoy, Frakes boldly took his initiative to try some daring shots, ie lots of close-ups, hand held type shots, puts him right up their with other Trek movie directors, Nicholas Meyer etc.The Special Effects were extremely detailed and don't look they have been processed through 256 colour Powermac.  The exterior battle shots were hair raising to say the least, just like the Wrath of Khan. Lighting was extremely well done, mostly that dark contrast shone on characters aboard the ship.  Costumes and make-up artists have really outdone themselves. It is an almost flawless movie.  The acting by Patrick Stewart, James Cromwell and Alfre Woodward was well portrayed.  Although the only flaw I can find in this movie is the Borg queen, not having the villain dynamics, chills and cold feelings that past movie villains gave, ie Khan, Chang.  Though she was acceptable.Overall the story, plot was outstanding, always keeping you interested with the happenings on the ship, whilst the away team try to go through with that launch.  Some of the story is of course new, the concept of the borg queen, never even thought of in the TNG episode, 'Best of Both Worlds'.  Just been hashed together to make a good story, but hey, they tried their best.  And after all, it gave us a hell of a movie. 9/10   "},{"Title":"Moby Dick","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This would have to be the best of all the films that have been made (by far). The Borg has made star trek come to life and the twists and turns make it all work. But i think Crusher and Troi should have a larger part. This is a must see. "},{"Title":"Great idea, not fully used","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The beginning is really good and doesn't let you leave. Suspense and everything. But afterwards... I thought the parts with the borg queen were very boring and not at all in the spirit of Star Trek. They fell a little bit in stereotypes and that's a pity. Well, I guess its being a big screen movie made it necessary for such allowances.  "},{"Title":"The Best of the Next Generation Films.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact is a great film for the Star Trek franchise as it offered a lot of tense, suspenseful moments, as well as the return of the best Next Generation enemies The Borg.  The pacing and tone felt like a cross between the Alien series and George Romero's Night of the Living Dead.  Relentless, innumerable and completely unemotional, the Borg rips through Picard's new Enterprise with ruthless efficiency.The warp flight story served as a means for the whole time-travel subplot, and while it offers the lighter moments in the film, the real action is found in space, as is the main entertainment.  Patrick Stewart's performance is great as a more take charge Picard (unlike the uncharacteristically weak Picard found in Generations), the the other Next Gen cast is always a welcome addition.  (Yet Gates McFadden always gets such tiny parts in these films)  The special effects are great (looks even better on DVD), and the musical score is wonderful.  A few tiny continuity gripes here and there (I'm picky about details in films), but nowhere near enough to diminish the overall enjoyment of this movie.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"Chalk up one for Trek!","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact is by far one of the best sci-fi films of all time... right up there with The  Wrath of Kahn and The Undiscovered Country. Jonathan Frakes one again proves that he has the  right stuff to sit in the director's chair (Unfortunately, I can't say the same for Insurrection but that's  another review). Plus the film restores my faith in the Borg as the ultimate villains; whereas ST  Voyager has degraded them into incompetent, bubbling, buffoons (a la, Dark Frontier)!As for acting, Patrick Stewart delivers his best performance of his trek career (so far); as well as the  supporting cast Spiner, Dorn, Cromwell, Woodard, etc... However, Krige's roll as the Borg Queen  fell rather flat. But overall a must see for trek and non trek fan alike!Rating 9 "}{"Title":"Good Trek flick","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First decent Star Trek film featuring the cast of The Next Generation finds Picard and crew going back in time to prevent the Borg from changing history. Hardcore fans of Trek will find numerous continuity problems,and the script is somewhat weak. The Borg look absolutely terrifying,and the Borg Queen is played seductively well by Alice Krige. Features a good,sweeping score by Jerry Goldsmith,and strong performances by Stewart and Brent Spiner. Followed by the weak Insurrection.    *** out of **** "},{"Title":"As Good As Star Trek Gets","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact is a quality effort. It is a continuation of one of the favorite conflicts in Star Trek, against the Borg. It has good action, special effects and acting. The opening scene is one of the best in a sci-fi film, simply chilling. First Contact has several themes that it plays with. The story takes place in Earth's past, shattered by world war 3. So we have time travel to think about. There is a man on Earth who could become a great hero if history is not changed. What makes greatness? Is it selfishness, heroics, luck or a combination of all three? The third issue involves Picard and the Borg. When is a grudge too personal, too hateful? Unlike Star Trek Insurrection, all these ideas are presented clearly.If this is such a great movie, then why wasn't it a blockbuster like Phantom Menace or The Matrix? There is the cuteness factor. Star Trek rarely has cute characters that appeal to young children. There is the coolness factor. Many of the actors (Stewart, Cromwell and Woodard) are very good. But they are older, they don't wear leather and don't look that good in trench coats. Then there is the blood bath factor. Star Trek heroes don't kill the 200 or so bad guys, typical of today's action movies. My only problems with the movie are that Frakes while a good director leaves much to be desired as an actor. And the hero Cochrane seems to be too much of a drunk to build a warp ship. Star Trek First Contact is a blend of suspense, sci-fi ideas and action. It is also a human drama about how we strive to be better people and to build a better world. All of this is wrapped up with fantasy, danger and excitement in a very entertaining package. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek VIII has to be as good as Wrath of Khan, if not better. (Imagine if Wrath of Khan had this kind of special effects - wow). Anyway - brilliant acting, brilliant plot, great special effects. A must see for anyone considering watching a sci-fi flick. Only shame is that the UK video release has all the 'nasty' bits (remember green veins shooting across crew faces?) removed. These made the film slightly more enticing in this post saving private ryan world. "},{"Title":"Best Trek","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was the best Trek movie ever, and it has to rank as one of the best science fiction movies. Johnathon Frakes is proving to be a really great director and did an excellent job with this film.  Well written, of course the character portrayal was good, they have had a lot of practice.  The two academy award nominees/winners(not sure which) James Cromwell and Alfre Woodard were irreplaceable. "},{"Title":"A very close second for Trek.","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek is one of those damned if you do, damned if you don't type of shows. If the movies are made for Trekkies, then most of the general public won't watch, and Paramount will lose money. A good example of this is Generations. Massive implications if you are a Trek fan, but not important to anyone not familiar with the series. First Contact is slanted toward the general public, and thus many Trekkies claim that Paramount is selling out , and alienating true fans. I'm a Trekkie, but I still love this movie. The acting is great. Nobody ever complains about Patrick Stewart, and with good reason. He puts in a masterful, if overly emotional performance. The only member of the cast to annoy me is Martina Sirtis as Troi, but I have never liked the character. Thankfully, she recieves little air time. Alfre Woodard as Lily is excellent, and James Cromwell puts in a suitably drunken performance as Cochrane. The Queen Alice Krige is spooky and seductive enough, and of course the Borg drones are scary. It is interesting to hear Kelsey Grammar back on board the Bozeman, a nice little touch. Also, as always, links are made to other series with Ethan Phillips Neelix in Voyager appearing in the holodeck scene. There are rumours that Avery Brooks was supposed to be in it, but I'm not sure. A good cast all up. The special effects from Industrial Light and Magic are great, and did anyone else see that the nebula toward the start of the film looked like a giant cat? A great touch. There are so many memorable quotes and scenes from this film, but the one in Picard's Ready Room with Lily is one I will never forget. Perhaps a little too emotional, but one of the best Trek scenes of all time. The Borg are finally back to their terrifing best, something lacking in their last few episodes. There are few sci-fi villains that are better. The plot is average, but the film is so fast that you don't have time to care. Many people are incensed that this Cochrane is so different to the one in TOS, but I missed that era, so I'm neutral. Overall, a great movie, but still falls behind Star Trek VI. "},{"Title":"A few good lines, but ...","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There were a few good lines, but overall this movie just doesn't make it. Picard was too emotional.  And let's be honest, does anyone out there really believe that a trained starfleet officer is going to get drunk on such a critical mission?  As for this new ship, it was too dark and dingy, and the script writers couldn't even keep their technical facts about her straight. In addition, the script lacked continuity with the series. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek Movie of all","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is by far the best of the Star Trek saga.  The story line was solid and upheld the traditions of classic Star trek very well.  The settings and special effects were realistic and the cast maintained their characters true to form while adding to the viewers insight into their unique personalities. I was glad to see that they finally got rid of Geordi's visor, it was long in coming.  I thought that the exploration into the Borg society linked together with the paradox of time travel made for an excellent story.I've seen several complaints about both the time travel and the new insights into the Borg, but I have to disagree with those comments... I thought they were nit-picky and trivial.  Time travel is always an iffy thing in any storyline, but it seemed natural that the Borg would try it... they tried everything else.  As far as the introduction of the Borg queen, that seemed natural as well.  The Borg have always been portrayed as a collective of minds, but the presence of a Borg Queen (or Queens) seems not only plausible but more than likely.As I watched ST First Contact and was introduced to the notion of a Borg Queen, I found many of the unanswered questions in my mind about the workings of the Borg society coming together and being answered all at once. How else is a collective of individual minds going to remain focused and unified?  How else could a collective maintain the order and discipline of billions of minds trying to work together as one... They are part machine.. so a Borg Queen/Central Processor seems a natural conclusion to me.At first, I thought that the existance of a Borg Queen(s) would have been introduced much earlier, especially after Voyager picked up Seven-of-nine, but then the thought struck me that the individual Borg might not even be aware of the existence of such a Queen.. not as we would think of her.  To them she might have just seemed to be a central accessing sight, or hub, for connection to the rest of the Collective.  Who knows.. there's still a lot that hasn't been revealed about the Borg.Overall, I thought it was great, imaginative, and in no way as disappointing as the first STNG movie, Generations.  I would say that the only thing that bugged me about , well, all of the movies.. from one to eight... is the one-liners.  Some of them were good, but it's obvious that the writers were just trying to throw in some of the mainstream movie pleasers such as I'll be Back, from Terminator.  I think the writers, or whoever made the decision to do that, should just stick to what works for Star Trek and leave the one-liners to Schwarzenegger and Willis.  It is purely out of character for the Star Trek characters and the Start Trek Universe doesn't need it... "},{"Title":"A Good One...","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  People seem to have mixed comments on this one, but I rather enjoyed it.  James Cromwell (aka Stretch Cunningham from All In The Family as someone pointed out. -) puts in a good performance as Zefram Cochran, and Alice Kreige was great as the Borg Queen.  It would have been more dramatic had they killed a regular crew member instead of the dime-a-dozen Hawk.  A great idea would have been to bring Shelby (the Borg specialist) back and kill her off. "},{"Title":"To dark, but better than Star Trek Generations","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  STFC displays are very dark side of all the good things conquering the space could have. Critics not to the actors, they played all the way good as every time, but the film's setting was a little to dark. Better luck next time. "},{"Title":"Great film!!!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It was the best film about Star Trek I have ever seen and one of the most interesting I ever seen from all the movies. Great dialogs and great story line. I hope every real fan of Star Trek saw or see this film. It's great and highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Best movie of all time!!!!!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If I could give this a 20 on 10 I would. This movie kicks ass! It's far better than any other Star Trek movie, it has the Borg, it has Worf, it has sweet FX, and Zero G combat. This isn't missing anything. Besides, the scene where Picard tells Lillie The line must be drawn here, this far, no farther!!!! And I will make them pay for what they've done! is the coolest scene in movie history, period. "},{"Title":"STFC, a Trek masterpiece","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a slick movie.  The performances from the TNG cast are truly remarkable (hell, even Troi is ok in this one).  Patrick Stewart, who is at his Shakespearean best, is so under credited in his role as Picard (I mean, who can deny he deserved at least an Oscar nomination for this one) it's no wonder he doesn't want to do many more ST films.  James Cromwell as Cochrane initially had me skeptical, but he works fine, albeit with some slightly odd lines.  Alice Krige is cool, but the idea of the Borg Queen is somewhat shaky.  Alfre Woodard is quite able too, and despite spouting a little too much profanity for a ST movie, she comes across as a well-developed character.BTW, how bout the Enterprise-E?  What a ship. It's not extremely graceful, like the D, but its hard and edgy, a lot more like the original Enterprise or the Excelsior.  Also, kudos to Herman Zimmerman, an unsung hero in the ST kingdom.  His set designs are amazing...the interior of the E is stunning, drawing from a lot of organic shapes.The film itself.  The script was good.  Moore and Braga are a good combo, but I think they try to pump up the story too much for the movie, giving it a crammed feel (Insurrection felt more cohesive thanks to Piller's experience).  Nevertheless, the story works well, and coupled with the able touch of Frakes in the director's chair, the movie never drags, and everything makes sense.  To elaborate on Frakes, he knows Star Trek. Although I'm always the first person to enjoy the lovely space battles in Trek (and this movie has a quick doozy), Frakes knows it's not all about that.  For instance, the arrival of the Vulcans at the end of the movie is true brilliance (Goldsmith really works magic here too).  The pan across the multi-cultured crowd with Cochrane in the foreground is perhaps one of the most poignant and well-crafted scenes in sci-fi film that I have seen.As I read some of the comments posted here, some people think the Borg have lost their edge.  They certainly have changed from Q-Who?, and FC doesn't make them as spooky as, say, Best of Both Worlds...but they still are a formidable villain.  I agree with the statement that there should be more than one cube in the movie, but the time-travelling sphere-shaped ships are probably quite rare (thus only a few cubes would be retrofitted with them). But why the Borg don't bring backup to prevent ships like the Enterprise following the sphere is unclear.  Then there is the Queen, who is an interesting character, and somehow manages to evoke some perverted kind of allure through all that crap she has on.All in all, this movie rocks.  I can't emphasize enough how good Stewart is. He is truly a marvelous actor.  A couple tidbits to end...ALERT  Whoever designs the opening credit sequences, don't EVER do the out of focus thing again...I don't know about the rest of you, but it gives me a headache every time I watch it. Oh ya, for all you Classic Trek guys and gals that were complaining about continuity.  Relax.  All is cool.  Cochrane wasn't born on Alpha Centauri. He retired there.  Watch Metamorphosis again or read any source material, and they'll tell you just that.   "},{"Title":"Finally, A Star Trek Film That Non-Trekkies Can Enjoy","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   With all the Generations Crew back for another taste of the big screen, we can at least sit down to a Star Trek film for everyone. Jean Luc Picard(Patrick Stewart), Will Riker(Jonathon Frakes), Data(Brent Spiner), Worf(Michael Dorn), Troi(Marina Sirtis), Dr.Crusher(Gates McFadden), Geordi La Forge(LeVar Burton) and the others now do a bit of time traveling when Earth is once again threatened by the ever persistent Borg led by Alicia Krige.    One thing that let down the old films was the inability to let outsiders to the Star Trek world understand what was going on. First Contact is a very relaxed action adventure that eases up on the science fiction and heads more for the direction of a bigger target market. The whole cast put up a usual performance with Brent Spiner(Independance Day) and Patrick Stewart(Robin HoodMen In Tights) as the better of them. The Borg are very chilling;the pale make up reaching the desired effect. For a Star Trek film, this one is a huge improvement. The follow up, Insurrection, isn't as good but its nice to know that finally the writers are caring about the non trekkie audiences. Rating=3/5 "},{"Title":"One of the best Star Trek movies","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First Contact was brilliantly done in my opinion. The comraderie that was shown between the cast members was something that was a great part of the movie. The special effects were great, the opening battle scene was awesome, and the Enterprise-E is gorgeous. Showing Picard's drive for revenge was really something and bringing back the Borg is something that we've all wanted for a long time. Alice Krige, Alfre Woodard, and James Cromwell were all great additions to the cast for this movie and the regular cast performed superbly. A definate 8.5/10 for me. I think this movie ranks among the best Trek movies and is only surpassed by Star Treks 2 and 6. Resistance is Futile. "},{"Title":"Corr blimey Guvnor!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Pure amazement.  When I first went to watch this film at the cinema I was just blown away with the amazing battle sequences and the SFX.  Great idea to shoot in 70mm film for the added effect.  This is Frakes at his best! "},{"Title":"1996's Best Film","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not a masterpiece but one step from it. Incredible acting and story made it the best sci-fi since 82's Bladerunner and Trek 2. Much better than Jar Jar Episode 1.  "},{"Title":"One of the better Trek efforts","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was a better movie than Generations and the one thing that made the movie above-average was the direction. Frakes manages to make this look and feel like a movie rather than just an extended episode. Unlike some action movies these days, Frakes knows how to frame a shot and *fluidly* move the camera without the audience getting a headache, and doesn't rely on rapid-fire-annoying camera shaking and over-lighting like some straight from music video directors use nowadays.If I hadn't seen about 10 borg tv episodes I would probably have enjoyed this hugely, but alas the borg had their day a long time ago.6/10.  "},{"Title":"The Best of the Films, and the most in spirit of the Series","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek has always been about Ideas.  I have seen people bash the movies and the episodes without even having seen one.  Many people also seem to focus on the scientific absurdities of Star Trek.  They bash everything about this movie regarding time travel.These people miss the point. (What Sci Fi movie other than 2001 makes complete sense anyways?)Star Trek has always been about ideas.  Gene Roddenberry always spoke of star trek as, A show that uses the medium of the future to speak about the present  This movie has remained true to Gene's vision and has created a tense and thrilling movie in the process.Even though I am a trekker my review is not biased as I deplored Star Trek I and V (and I wasn't overly keen on generations either)The borg have returned and have decided to travel backwards in time to wipe out humanity just before it was capable of meeting another intelligent species.  Picard though, driven by his duty, and his underlying hatred of the borg(he was once assimilated into their collective mind), travels back with them in order to prevent this from happening.The movie has a wonderful visual feel.  The Borg are dark and hideous. Lights are dimmed and the entire film seems mechanized in some way.  The opening shot is magnificent where the camera pulls out of picards eyeball to an entire gleaming bor collective.  Frakes certainly got the feel of the movie down.Usually when a star trek movie becomes bad is when it tries to appeal to a broad range audience by inserting one liners.  This movie remembers the foundation that Star Trek is built on.  Ideas.  Every star trek movie has a human theme involved.  Picard is driven to stop the borg in order to protect humanity. But his vision becomes clouded by his intense hatred of the borg. He begins to revel in killing them (holodeck scene).  This is one of the human themes in the movie.  What is the line between objectivity and hatred? Stewart does an excellent job of handling the role.The borg are masterful villians.  They are relentless and keep on coming. ALice Kirge gives Data a class in seduction.With the advent of Deep Space 9, I was fearing the movies would begin to go awry but this movie has wavered my doubts.Now if we only had a movie with Q...   "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have never been a real fan of Star Trek mostly because of it's lack of a story. ST First Contact changed that opinion. It greatly impressed me because it has a lot of features that Generations didn't have. This one has a good story, action, music and special effects. And not to forget, good actors. This is what I would call an excellent Sci-Fi movie..... "},{"Title":"The series needs a vulcan writer to put some logic in it.","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well I have been a Star Trek fan for many years, probably not as much as many of you though.  I am an engineer, and have a smattering of science knowledge, but more importantly a logical approach to problem solving. Now when the original and followup TV shows are made, they have a week or 2 to put together a 1 hour show.  How long do they take with movies these days, 6 - 12 months.  Well this story looks no better than the effort in 2 weeks. The main problem - the storyline, and the bending of Star Trek history and science.  Examples 1) the most powerful ship in the fleet isn't protecting Earth, instead of replacing Capt. Picard?  2) as seen in StarTrek Voyager, the Borg have many ships - why send only one - they know how strong the Federation is from previous encounters?  3) how can Cochrane, an alcoholic, and a man living in a primitive village, obtain, purify, and build a nuclear powered spaceship?  4) the quantum torpedo fired from the Enterprise at Cochrane's ship takes forever (should be a second) to get near.  5) and my biggest gripe about every movie - is when the hero is captured, and everything is explained to them - then the hero has time to reverse the whole situation. The best thing about this movie is it was better than that piece of junk where that vulcan mystic takes the Enterprise to the center of the galaxy to meet God.  "}{"Title":"A different Star Trek adventure.","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After the relative disappointment of Star Trek  Generations, the  Star Trek crew bounce back with this rather entertaining interstellar adventure. Patrick Stewart is much better in this film than the last and he manages to allow his character ( Jean-Luc Picard) to expand into a very human (and non-human) role. Jonathan Frakes directs well and makes you jump quite often as the crew fight the deadly Borg aliens. Even if you have never seen Star Trek, this will make you curious. Unfortunately for Jonathan Frakes, his next Star Trek film, after the praise for this one, would be a relative disappointment "},{"Title":"a marvelous trek","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First Contact is the best Star Trek movie yet. Excellent directing; scenes are shot to convey ideas and sequences effectively, subtly, and with meaning. This is indeed an exciting space adventure where well-loved (TV series) characters are portrayed with incisive detail and permitted to develop further, especially Jean-Luc's transient resemblance of Captain Ahab.Dazzling special effects of space battles, and sci-fi imagery complements the dauntless wills of the Enterprise crew who boldly trek the unknown frontier. Patrick Stewart is Captain Picard, and will remain immortalized as a figure of tenacity, intellect, and integrity for a long time. "},{"Title":"A Movie that non-trekkers can enjoy","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the greatest trek movie ever made and something that even a non-trekker can enjoy, that´s not to say it´s a perfect movie, the Borg threat could have been more intense and Picard's hatred for the Borg does not come through perfectly.  The Cochrane thing was not that interesting but overall a great movie anyway. I think the series Star Trek-Voyager is the greatest trek and series ever made. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For some odd reason, I liked this movie.  Strangely when I first saw it I thought it stunk.  But after a second attempt, I actually liked parts of it... most of it actually.GOOD NEWS  Patrick Stewart does superb acting in this film, much better than that even of Generations.  The plot about Zefram Cochrane was a good addition too.  Jonathan Frakes also did excellent directing.BAD NEWS  The Borg.  Although they are one of my most favorite villians, they seemed........weaker in this film.  The Federation ships trashed the Borg Cube thanx to Picard and the Cube should've been tougher since the Borg adapt so much.  Also, the subplot with the Borg was too dark for Star Trek.All in all, a good movie.  Although not as good as Insurrection.And keep in mind to you losers that down Insurrection because of less action, you are wrong.  Insurrection was a great movie because of its plot(despite some confusing aspects).  The action is not what made Trek popular in the first place!!!!!   Star Trek explores the human spirit, the soul.  It's not about gore and action.  I wish everybody would understand that... "},{"Title":"The (2nd) best Trek movie, after ST4","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The best action Sci-Fi action movie of 1997 that's for sure, but not enough Trek inside, but still, lots of fun, action, humor and all long-loved TNG cast all bound together to create a great movie. Oh yeah, and a real surround sound system and a DVD player are also highly recommended for u to b able 2 enjoy the full experience.  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Star Trek 'Good and Evil' Battle","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Reliving some of Starfleet Captain Jean-Luc Picard's troubled history, the Ultimate battle in between Star Trek Good (The Federation),and Star Trek Bad (The Borg) commences, when the Federation engage The Borg, on its way to Earth at Wolf 359, the Enterprise is told to stay away, but in true Rogue Picard style he refuses orders and is soon found in the thick of the second Wolf 359 Battle as he orders all ships to fire simultaneously at a point on the cube. To much of Picard's dismay, the Borg escape through a time vortex, and naturally, the Newly christened Enterprise-E, eager to fit it's predecessors shoes, goes in after them. What follows is a skirmish of wits, intelligence, courage and good old 24th Century imagination as Picard and his fearless crew try to overcome the Ultimate evil, in Earth's pre-warp past. Meeting a few colourful and crucial characters in Earth's history along the way, the Enterprise and it's crew almost make the ultimate sacrifice as they try to save Earth and it's growing population from the evil clutches of the Borg Queen and her dormant drones. Don't Resist, Don't Delay, Be assimilated today!!! And remember... Resistance Is Futile!  "},{"Title":"The Best and least predictable Trek movie yet made.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Finally we see that the Star Trek Next Generation characters are real people, not perfect images. There are realistic frictions amongst the crew, not just against a hostile outside force. The darker, grittier side to this movie finally lift it above the usually slick, overly perfect Star Trek universe and into the realm of believable art. "},{"Title":"Good, but notable more for what it failed to do.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The first film proper without the old crew had to be made a certain way, granted, to be accepted by the public.  But this was a bit of a sell out. Gone was the menace of the Borg and all that they stood for, to be replaced by a enemy 'face'.  As action went, this was also limited, particularly the conclusion. The beginning of the film, though stylish, played down the new ship and the build-up to the invasion was hurried.  (Why not have the borg ship flying through Federation space over the otherwise-blank titles).  Plus they rubbed out Hawk, who seemed a good character.  An okay film, but not what it could have been.  At least they got the proper music back. "},{"Title":"Best Trek movie I've ever seen!","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Great Trek Movie! The best so far, great acting, story and special effects. "},{"Title":"A vast improvement","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The film was much better than Generations, although I feel the element involving time travel can now be exploited in futuremovies as the Enterprise crew now knows how to achieve time travel. "}{"Title":"Action/Science Fiction at its Finest","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having been a Classic Trek fan first, I was apprehensive about seeing the first Trek film with the Next Generation cast exclusively.  Of course, I'd practically grown up with the Next Generation, so I was happy to see it.  I think this is one of the best Trek films (and sci-fi films in general). Jonathan Frakes did a fantastic job at directing and I thinkhe'll do at least that good of a job on Insurrection. I'm looking forward to many, many more Trek sequels ... just make sure they don't do any Deep Space Nine or Voyager till long after the Next Generation cast gets into their geriatric years!! "},{"Title":"One of the best Trek movies and great Sci-Fi Action","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Paramount enters DVD with a BANG!I saw this movie 3 times at the theatre (by virtue of working there at the time and not having to pay for it of course).  It is one of the best Trek movies ever made, both for the Trekker and non-Trekker alike.  A very well done film.The DVD is fantastic... it's great to finally have Paramount titles available on this fine format.  The audio and video are just spectacular.  A must have for any sci-fi fan! "},{"Title":"Much better than the first","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As Star Trek movies go, odd numbered ones are bad, even numbered ones are good. First Contact definitely fell in the good category. Much better than the disgraceful Generations, this has more action, more story, better lighting, and much better acting. And this time, Picard doesn't get his butt kicked. While the Enterprise E is a little hard to get used to, true Trekkers (and even non-Trekkers) will enjoy this well made flick.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Right up my street. I grew up watching Star Trek The Next Generation so I know and love the characters. And the Borg were always my favourite bad guys. So how could I possibly not love this movie?OK I do accept that it's basically nothing more than an extended TV episode with some extra money thrown at the special effects (i.e., the Borg queen 'floating torso' scene), but hey I'm not complaining!I thought this movie worked perfectly - capturing all the best elements of the TV show. There is plenty of action, from a massive star-fleet firefight to one on one combat and even a space-walk battle on the outside of the ship. There are great Sci- Fi themes/conundrums - time travel, android with feelings, etc. And lots and lots of unnerving moments with the Borg.A firm favourite. "},{"Title":"Last greatness","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm not a fan of JJ Abrams re-incarnation of Star Trek, not by a million miles. So if I want to have fun Trek time I have to look way back to previous generations (ironically this time the Next Generation) and to 1996's Star Trek First Contact - the last truly great Trek movie.Haunted by dreams of the techno-zombie Borg race calling to him Picard wastes no time (okay, maybe a little) in charging the Enterprise into a Borg battle with the Federation above the Earth. The cube is successfully destroyed, but the Borg manage to travel back to the mid-21st century, a time when Earth is fractured due from World War III, and try to prevent the first meeting between humans and aliens.Zefram Cochrane is the man who makes that connection with his first ever warp drive flight, and he's not quite the squeaky clean hero that the Enterprise crew thought he would be. Meanwhile, with their escape pod destroyed, the remaining Borg slowly take over the Enterprise, with their as-yet-unseen Queen attempting to seduce security codes out of Data with promises of humanity (a clever reversal of Borg culture).Naturalized Star Trek movies tend to fare better with audiences. Both First Contact and the Voyage Home are more accessible for non-Trek fans but still have a sense of adventure and a strong connection to the universe (pun intended). First Contact also receives a huge boost from Jerry Goldsmith's beautiful score, which is his best Trek effort and certainly one of his best scores overall. The action is a little bit clunky (endless generic Enterprise corridor scenes get a bit tiresome) but the character chemistry is pitch perfect and there is a good variety in the excitement. "},{"Title":"Self-assured greatness","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was always under the impression that Jean-Luc Picard had (mostly) overcome his traumatic assimilation at the hands of the Borg - but as First Contact opens, he's still profoundly scarred. But in this movie, he's sort of a proxy for seeing the show's greatest enemy in a brand new light. The cinematic production values show them as much more than just extras in rubber suits. The makeup here is terrific and it helps greatly in showing the crushing dehumanization (not to mention pain) of the assimilation process. You can see in an instant why our Captain is still monumentally ticked.This is ultimately a movie where all of the parts are working together harmoniously. A fine cast (Alfre Woodard and Alice Krige, especially), great effects, and superb direction under Jonathan Frakes. And almost two decades on, that space walk on the deflector dish is still really cool. But to put this in perspective, this was the first real TNG movie, and it blasts onto the screen with an undeniable self-confidence. And it's en excellent marriage of science fiction and action movie; moves with a distinct energy without feeling like a jittery mess.Great movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best Trek films ever made","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" People act like the Star Trek Reboot and its sequel are the only times Star Trek has veered into the genre of straight up action Those people however seem to forget about this installment. Star Trek First Contact's plot is that Captain Picard and the crew of the Enterprise must stop the Borg from altering history. Now, I'm going to let you know right off the bat that the plot is the weakest part.Despite it being well told, it contains numerous plot holes that are kind of hard not to notice. And yet, that is overshadowed by the great acting, smart dialogue, terrific special effects, and phenomenal action scenes. First Contact is also one of the darkest of the Star Trek films, and it works well as the pacing picks up and the film gets more and more intense to the point where you are on the edge of your seat. First Contact stands as the ONLY good Next Generation film, and it is even better than Wrath of Khan. "},{"Title":"A Very Pleasing Movie For All Star Trek Fans,","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek First Contact is a great movie with a really well developed storyline that will both fans of Star Trek The Next Generation and fans of sci-fi in general.It is the first standalone movie for the Next Generation crew,and it is much better than their first movie,Generations,that crossed them over with a few members of the original Star Trek crew,it was much better seeing this crew on their own instead of throwing in William Shatner.Like all Star Treks,the cast is fantastic,but there was just something extra special about this one,them seemed much ore positive than usual,they clearly knew it was a great script.Fans of Star Trek and just fans of sci-fi,because it has enough in it not to confuse people who aren't aware of Star Trek,will be very pleased with First Contact.Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) must battle against his old enemy the Borg,as they try to change history for the worse. "},{"Title":"Lots of Potential But Fails To Create The Epic Sense That It Should","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek First Contact**1/2 (out of 4)111 mins/ 12Cast Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Michael Dorn, Gates McFadden, Marina Sirtis, Alfre Woodard, James Cromwell, Alice Krige, Neal McDonoughDirector Jonathan FrakesPlot The Enterprise D crew has to travel in time to face off against the evil Borg, who go way back with Captain Picard, as they try to prevent Earth's first contact with extra-terrestrial life.JJ's Verdict Star Trek First Contact starts off bold and proud with the theme tune playing over some well-made credits. With its reputation as the best Trek of them all, after reading the plot, you would expect bold and proud action that has a meaning to save the world. However, although we do get good action, it never seems through the camera or the characters eyes that they are fighting to save the universe and ends up just being about Picard fighting his demons and defeating the Borg for a personal achievement. In First Contact, the Enterprise crew are forced to time travel back to the mid-21st century as the Borg try to stop humans having first contact with aliens. We then find out that Captain Picard is dealing with demons once again because he was once taken in and transformed to become one of them. From here we get two groups of characters. The first are Riker and Geordi on Earth trying to make sure Zefram Cochran to fulfil his destiny and make first contact with aliens. Zefram is a cynical drunkard who is not too dissimilar to the character Dr. McCoy who was so loved by Trek fans back with the original crew. James Cromwell, portraying Cochran, brings a much needed freshness and quirkiness to the picture and gives us a very likable character. Back on the Enterprise we have an 'Alien' style survival against the Borg lead by Picard and Worf. Patrick Stewart, who of course plays Picard, once again brings his cool, commanding and cooling presence to the screen and if the state of the world really did depend on him, I'd be very happy indeed. All of these scenes have some great action and well-made chases but given its source material, feels a long way from the more human elements of the Original Crew's tenure. Sure, I love good action but it just doesn't feel like a 'Trek' film to me. Despite this, one scene at the start in which Picard disobeys orders from Starfleet is almost identical to one in Kirk and Co.'s final outing back in 1991 and feels awfully cringing.Another problem with the 'Alien' like scenes, are the aliens themselves, the Borg. Although Alice Krige puts in a creditable performance as the Borg, it is the Borg's motives which had me confused. To have power of the world, they are trying to stop human's first contact with aliens but surely, even if they stopped it then, there will be more opportunities to contact aliens. More Borg problems are that despite inhabiting their ship, the Borg will only kill the crew if they see them as a threat, and the crew will only kill the Borg if the Borg see the crew as a threat. Even when they are standing metres away form each other, they will only shoot if they sense that they are in danger. Why? I, unfortunately, cannot answer. The films visuals are the best out of all previous Trek films and so are the big-scoped space battles. More positives in the film are the dry wit in the script and great mix of seriousness and comic relief. However, this does have its downside because as the danger to Picard gets more serious, the comic relief given by James Cromwell increases which causes for a great sense of awkwardness as the two cut from one to another. Despite not being a 'Trek' film in the sense of the word, First Contact gives us an entertaining last twenty minutes, to be a decent but certainly watchable film. "},{"Title":"Star Trek attempting to create a horror film","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first movie spin-off from the Star Trek Next Generation franchise felt like simply an extended double episode that was made for the big screen, and in a way I got the same impression with this film as well, even though I did enjoy it and enjoyed it somewhat the second time around. I have just finished watching all of the Deep Space 9 episodes and during that time I have been checking up a lot about the Star Trek universe on wikipedia, so when I read the entry for this movie I had a desire to watch it again.First Contact does come across like an extended episode, though no doubt it was more expensive that a simple episode. The crew returns with a new Enterprise (and new uniforms, which transfer over to Deep Space 9 at about the same time in the series). I am not sure where the other movies slip in though considering they seem to have been placed during the Dominion War. I do find it strange that we never see the new Enterprise E appearing in any of the later Deep Space 9 episodes, or even Picard making an appearance, considering that Starfleet's flagship would most likely be fighting on the front lines of what was quite a devastating war.The Borg have attacked Earth again, but the typical bureaucracy of Starfleet pushes Picard out to the Romulan Neutral Zone in case his previous encounters with the Borg may prove problematic to the defense of Earth. However, as is expected, Picard disobeys orders and returns to Earth just in time to destroy the ship. However it is not all over immediately as an escape pod is ejected and begins to travel back in time to the mid-21st century, and Picard orders his crew to follow it. This is where the title of the film comes in because they arrive a couple of days before Earth makes first contact with the Vulcans. Once again they destroy the borg ship, but not before it severely damages the first warp drive ship being built, and also not before them manage to transport onto the Enterprise and begin to assimilate the crew.As such there are two plots running concurrently. On Earth the away crew, led by Riker and La Forge are racing against time to get the ship launched on schedule, and also attempt to convince an alcoholic Zephram Cochraine to go ahead with his warp drive test to alert the Vulcans to their presence. The second plot has the crew of the Enterprise, led by Picard, attempting to deal with the borg and to stop them from alerting other borg of their presences and the presence of Earth.After watching the entire season of Deep Space 9 I have come to really appreciate the Star Trek universe and some of the races that appear therein. Of course I always balk at this idea of a perfect, cashless, religionless, society where humans are always trying to better themselves. It just seems to be to be an unrealistic utopia that could never come about. Further, the whole idea that humans do not engage in conflict anymore seems to be silly, particularly when there is conflict within the episodes. Obviously the idea is to write off such humans as bad influences (such as the Marquis) and consider them destructive to the Federation.I did quite enjoy this movie, though it is one of those movies that you do need some familiarity with the series to at least understand the characters. When the film opens it is automatically assumed that the audience knows who the characters are, there is really no introduction. As such to viewer who is not familiar with the Star Trek franchise, it can be a little confusion. Personally, having watched Star Trek in the past and being familiar with many of the characters that make an appearance, the problem is not really so great for me, and it is also difficult to see it from an alternate point of view. What was also a little disappointing was that the only character that came back from Deep Space 9 for the movie was Worf, and I noted that the crew of the Defiant were pretty much nameless crew members. It would have been good to have at least seen Dax in the episode, or maybe some of the other characters, but I suspect that bringing characters across from Deep Space 9 may have added some more awkwardness to the movie that is not needed.In a way it sort of come across as part horror movie, as far as Star Trek can go with the horror genre. I suspect that is what they were trying to do with the Borg invasion of the Enterprise. First we have them scooting around the ventilation ducts as if it were an Alien movie, then we have the Borg Queen grafting skin onto Data to give him the sensation of humanity. In some horror films the concept of flesh plays a significant role, however in this film it is simply the representation of Data's desire to become more human. In the end he does sacrifice his new found skin, and sensation, to save the lives of his friends. "}{"Title":"My Favorite TREK Adventure...Resistance is Futile...","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I know I'm biased about this, but FIRST CONTACT remains my favorite adventure of the franchise (though the J.J. Abrams 2009 reinvention of the original series is a close second). After suffering through the plot requirements of GENERATIONS, series writers Brannon Braga and Ronald Moore were given free reign to design the story for the eighth film in the series. The action and adventure are the best of any Next Generation film and the techno-babble, torturous to non-fans, is kept to a minimum. The Borg, cybernetic beings intent on assimilating all cultures into their own, have reached Earth and travel into the past to 2063. Their mission is to prevent Zefram Cochrane (James Cromwell) from making the first warp flight and establishing first contact with an alien race, thereby setting into motion the eventual creation of the Federation. The Enterprise-E follows them into the past and Picard (Patrick Stewart) must leads his crew in a battle to regain his assimilated ship from the Borg Queen (Alice Krige) and confront his desire for revenge against the race of beings that once robbed him of his individuality.Why am I biased in favor of this film? One word Borg. The Borg were one of my favorite adversaries from the Next Generation television series (second only to Q, who sadly will probably never be seen in a TREK film). Their unified consciousness and technological superiority made them nearly unstoppable and there is something inherently creepy about a race of faceless drones who only seek to accomplish their one task assimilation of all cultures. Their creepiness is put into full effect here with fantastically updated makeup effects enhancing their seemingly undead, mechanical appearance. Jonathan Frakes (Commander William Riker as well as first-time feature director) does a great job and seems to take cues from movies like ALIEN as Picard and his crew hunt through the Borg-ified Enterprise. It's got a definite horror vibe for the Borg portion of the plot and it's supported with the freaky (albeit sexy) performance of Alice Krige as the Borg Queen. She oozes confidence and sexuality as she attempts to seduce Data (Brent Spiner...yes, she's seducing the android...) and convince him to join her as an equal.While the Borg invasion of the Enterprise is my favorite portion of the movie, there is still an entertaining secondary story playing out on Earth's surface (Montana, to be precise) where Riker and his away team assist soon-to-be-famous Zefram Cochrane in repairing his warp ship and continuing to make first contact with the Vulcans. James Cromwell is awesome as Cochrane and we discover that history's heroes aren't always what we expect. He's a belligerent alcoholic who created the warp ship for his own greedy desires and he's not too keen on learning that he's practically worshiped centuries into the future. There's a great comedy moment in the film where Cochrane has gotten Counselor Troi (Marina Sirtis, looking better than ever) drunk on tequila and she unloads on Riker how difficult it is to interact with such a primitive culture. On the topic of comedy in the film, I'm happy to report that Data's toned back on his emotion hijinks a lot and, while he still has the emotion chip he installed in GENERATIONS, he's no longer singing to computers and talking to tricorders. Spiner is so much better in this film, which is good considering he's a major player in the Borg plot and gets plenty of screen time. It's also great to see Patrick Stewart letting loose with his angry side as he goes nuts on the Borg, driven by revenge and unable to cope with the fact that he might lose the Enterprise to them.Of all the pre-Abrams TREK films, this is the most approachable from those who aren't necessarily die-hard fans. It doesn't shove techno-babble down your throat and it gives you enough information that even those new to the series will follow what's going on. It's exciting, suspenseful, and at times funny; I can't think of a single moment where I found myself bored with the film. It's definitely the best Next Generation adventure and it's a great into film to those who want a taste of the STAR TREK series. "},{"Title":"Trek On An Epic Scale","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First Contact is essentially Star Trek on an epic scale. The Borg; who are always a difficult enemy for Starfleet to deal with, are back; with their usual intentions to assimilate the human race.And of course, Captain Picard has been ordered not to engage the Borg at any time. But he does anyway (as I would do if I was caught in the same situation). Anyway, the Borg Cube launches a small sphere back in time (which the Enterprise, of course, chases into the vortex back in time). While this movie has caught the epic scale that would make it popular with a wide audience; I found that it lowered itself on the deeply personal scale. Not that it's a bad thing in itself; the movie is still really good; but I think I would have enjoyed it more if it did have more on the deeply personal scale.As it stands, this movie does not waste a single moment with filler. It's not a great deal more than an hour and a half long (maybe it is an hour forty-five, but fifteen minutes isn't that long, really); which is a good thing, because with the exception of JJ Abrams' 2009 Star Trek movie; Star Trek movies tend to get a bit too long once they hit the two hour mark.9/10 "},{"Title":"What happens when the Borg come for a visit","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First of the Next Generation films is also a cracking adventure. The plot, which seems slightly borrowed from The Search for Spock, has the crew taking on the Borg and going back in time and helping with the discovery of warp drive and the very early founding of the Federation.Forget the details and just watch this for the action as Picard and his crew battle the Borg and the slimy Borg Queen. Its just a great amount of fun. Equally fun is the crew desperately trying to weigh the dangers of messing with the past in order to get home. It makes for some very humorous exchanges and helps to keep things light. One of the more enjoyable films in the franchise its worth a look. "},{"Title":"Star Trek meets Aliens","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek First Contact is the best entry with the Next Generation cast and the most successful attempt to combine Trek with an action movie formula so far. This is Jonathan Frakes feature film directorial debut and it's not bad for a first start! As the second film to directly link to an episode from the series, they wisely chose to make this a sequel of sorts to The Best of Both Worlds, one of the most critically acclaimed episodes in Trek and television history. Jean Luc Picard was captured and assimilated by the Borg, a race of cybernetic beings with a collective consciousness. The incident permanently scarred him and he still suffers from Post Traumatic Stress disorder, as well as a severe hatred for the Borg that will cloud his judgment. He frequently has flashbacks to the incident and he can even hear them when they're not there.First Contact starts with the premise that the Borg have begun another invasion of Earth, but the Enterprise has not been assigned to the front lines. When it looks like the Borg are breaking through the Federation defenses, Picard disobeys orders and travels to Earth at Maximum Warp. The Borg have a trick up their sleeve that nobody predicted they travel back through time to the mid twenty first century, in an attempt to stop the scientist Zephram Cochran (James Cromwell) from making contact with an alien race. If they succeed, the Borg will be able to assimilate Earth easily, because the human race will not have the technology to fight them off. It is up to the crew of the Enterprise to repair Cochran's ship and fight off the Borg that transported over to the Enterprise.Jonathan Frakes borrows heavily from James Cameron's Aliens. The action scenes are exceptionally thrilling, largely due to the Borg's ability to become impervious to phasers. The pressure on the crew keeps building as more and more crew members are assimilated. The Borg steadily gain more ground on the Enterprise until it looks like the crew's only option is to self-destruct the ship and evacuate. The Borg were always creepy villains, but this time they really made the make-up and prosthetics look realistic. Alice Krige plays the Borg Queen (another element borrowed from Aliens) who controls the collective. She attempts to seduce Data in more ways than one, but she mainly appeals to his desire to become human. I have a love/hate relationship with the Queen. Krige makes for one of the more memorable villains of the series, but the concept of the character contradicts everything we knew about the Borg. She is essentially their leader, but the Borg in the series did not have a leader. They were a hive mind with no hierarchical structure. When she dies, all of the Borg on the ship die with her, which was a little too convenient.The Next Generation films were primarily about Picard and Data, but First Contact did a better job utilizing the supporting characters. Riker, Geordi, and Troi assist Cochran with rebuilding his ship. Cochran panics a few times when he learns just how important he is. What really makes this movie a winner is the trauma Captain Picard goes through and how his new friend from the twenty-first century, Lily (Alfre Woodard) helps him get through it. Picard becomes almost sadistic in his fight against the Borg, and he refuses to listen to reason when the ship is all but lost. He gets into an intense argument with Worf that almost ruins their friendship. In the best scene of the film, Lily tries to convince Picard to blow up the ship, to which Picard responds by unleashing all of his bottled up rage and smashes a mirror with a phaser. Stewart succeeded in delivering an angry, tortured, and intimidating performance. Lily's accusation that Picard was becoming like Captain Ahab was very clever, since the only other character in the series to be compared to Ahab was Khan.Star Trek First Contact proved The Next Generation cast could stand on its own. It is unfortunate that they focused so much on Data and Picard, since they could have done more with the other characters. First Contact is an effective Sci-fi action thriller with great performances all around. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek film, and a good one in it's own right.","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent film. It is enjoyable as a stand alone film, but even more enjoyable to those that know the characters. Now the main brilliance of this film is having the Borg as the bad guys. There is a lot to be said about the overall excellence of the acting, story, and yes even the special effects. This film is perfectly paced, and having excellent character actors (James Cromwell, Alice Krige, and the always excellent Oscar nominated Alfre Woodard) as the supporting players was also brilliant. Enjoy this flick for what it is and watch our favorites from Next Generation fight the best bad guys that the Star Trek world has ever had. "},{"Title":"awesome!!!","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" for my money,this eight movie in the Star Trek franchise is the best of the eight.i just think it's got a great story,with a good subplot.the acting is good.the action sequences are really good.i also really like the look of the Enterprise in this movie.it so sleek and beautiful.also,the villain is quite strong,a worthy adversary for the Enterprise and her crew.there's also some humour here,which is always nice and some character growth and development.this is the first of The Next Generation movies and it is awesome.actually this movie blew me away with how good it is.there are also a boat load of extras on this second disc which make this edition more than the worth the purchase price,in my mind.easily 9/10 "},{"Title":"Borg? Sounds Swedish. ","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm not a huge fan of Star Trek but I can recognize a good movie when I see it. Personally, my favorite Captain is Jean-Luc Picard and I knew that movie with Patrick Stewart in this role couldn't be bad. I had a great time watching it and every movie that holds my attention for that long is good. Every movie of this type. There are some serious problems that this movie is putting on. Like possible Third World War, all the mankind erased and many more of topics that could happen in our future. Movie is made in 1996. and year 2065. that is mentioned in movie doesn't seem that far. Is it possible that some sort of disaster will happen to us in near future? That's the one of the reason why I liked this movie. Topics from today can be recognized in a plot like that.Jonathan Frakes directed this movie and it is very important to say that he's also starring in this one. As you all probably know he's Commander William Riker. Why I mentioned this? It's because after years of working together actors needed some director that they can relay on and I think that Jonathan Frakes did amazing job. Patrick Stewart is once more brilliant in his role and he's the best actor in this team. I also liked two actress Alfre Woodard and Alice Krige. Alice Krige specially as Borg Queen. Also James Cromwell has important role in this movie.Music. People listen to rock in 2065! Great, I'm glad to hear that.There are also lots of funny scenes. Most of them include Lt. Commander Data (Brent Spiner). Something interesting. When Patrick Stewart is talking about Moby Dick and Ahab in this movie. He didn't know that one day he'll play Ahab in a movie.I really enjoyed this one and I hope that all of Star Trek fans weren't disappointed. For me, great way to start taking more notice about some other Star Trek movies. Go on Picard, you're great. And Mr.Stewart, thank you. "},{"Title":"Stands out as a good science fiction film even on its own","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of the problems of the Star Trek franchise, especially in the more recent installments, Insurrection and Nemesis, has been pushing the envelope of both Science Fiction and the Star Trek universe, boldly going where no one has gone before. That was easy for the first series and some of the films made with the original cast, but in terms of CGI and storytelling there was no new ground to break for Star Trek, others had gone there before. This explains why especially Star Trek IX and X seem so weak. First Contact is/was different. It is the best film made with the cast of The Next Generation without any challenge, and is right up there with my other two favourites, Wrath of Khan and The Undiscovered Country. It opens with a huge battle of Star Fleet against a Borg ship, which is one of the best set piece battle sequences of the whole franchise (along with the battles of DS9 against Klingon and Jem Hadar fleets) even though it is a bit short. immediately after the battle the film reprises the idea of time travel that was already used in the Voyage Home. This time however the reason is a far call from the cringeworthy whale-saving mission of Star Trek IV, it is about preventing the Borg from foiling Cochrane's first warp flight, which in turn would mean that the First Contact with the Vulcans and the founding of the Federation would never take place. Now the crew must ensure that history or rather the future takes its course, while ridding the Enterprise from Borg infestation. what makes this film stronger than the other installments with the TNG crew is that they are firmly grounded in the known Star Trek universe, featuring a known villain race, the Borg which are anyway one of the most imaginative creations of Star Trek, and a key event in Federation history, First Contact. Insurrection and Nemesis on the other hand just introduced new evil races, the Son'a and the Remans, sticking them onto the universe without much background. the Borg in First Contact are a known quantity but their background is expanded by introducing the Borg Queen. the film also explores human nature. the fact that the film leaves the utopian vision of a world without war, hunger and poverty and travels to an Earth devastated by World War III with 600 million dead, is a strong reminder of humanity's violent and destructive character, that we are made painfully aware of in each day's news bulletin. Picard himself also is unlike we have seen him before, thirsting for revenge from the Borg who once assimilated him. The Borg Queen in her role as a manipulating temptress is ironically the one who instead of assimilating Data brings him closer to to feeling human than he bargained for. And there is the most likable character of the whole film, punch-drunk anti-hero and Rock'n'Roll-fan Zefram Cochrane, who is very uncomfortable with all his future fame and hero-status that the timetravellers confront him with. maybe one of the morals of the film here is to always take history as it is written with a pinch of salt. however, it remains a bit of a mystery how an alcoholic such as him could fashion a warp ship. the film has some truly memorable scenes such as the zero-G fight at the deflector dish with the Enterprise shown upside down, or Picard moving down Borg in with holographic bullets in a 1920s holodeck setting. among these remaining impressions are also the film's irony in such moments as that showing a more-drunk-than-tipsy Deanna Troi just trying to bl-lend in, as well as the unavoidable cheesy lines - Borg? Sounds Swedish and Try to assimilate that. not only in comparison to other Star Trek movies, but even on its own, First Contact stands out as a good Science Fiction film, and is more than the sum of prosthetics and CGI, showing some good writing, directing and acting. It is the only Star Trek film I ever watched in a cinema and it was worth it. When I saw the trailer on TV I just had to see. Resistance was futile. The Star Trek films after that just did not have that allure. "},{"Title":"Maximum warp!","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Went to the premiere of this here in Ireland and got to meet Gates McFadden for a second time, along with Alice Krige. This film was a real treat after that rubbish, Star Trek Generations. Although the Borg story was something that had been done already this was a much darker Borg with a much more foreboding aura about them. The space battle at the start was amazing and Jean Luc's 'connection' to them was a brilliantly realized idea. The Borg attack Earth and the Enterprise is told to stay away because of Jean Luc's prior involvement with them. As we hear over the com link ship after ship report losses Picard orders the Enterprise to the battle, disregarding his orders. When the Borg try to stop first contact with the Vulcans by traveling back in time we see a very different Earth and a whole new perspective on Humanity and an almost poverty stricken people which was a very interesting angle as the aftermath of the Nuclear Holocaust has never been explored to any real degree in Star Trek. When the Borg are stopped it seems as though all is OK and once Zefram Cochrane's warp ship is repaired all will be fine. But, alas, the Borg are on the Enterprise having transported there just prior to their ship's destruction. Patrick Stewart gives one hell of a performance and the scars of his previous abduction are evident. Brent Spiner also gives a colossal performance and provides a great twist at the end. This is the formula for a brilliant Next Gen movie. Right up there with Trek's best, The Wrath Of Khan. "},{"Title":"Clearly the best Star Trek ever made","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Dear Readers, It's finally happened, the borg have returned with their most nefarious plot yet Assimilate Earth in the past and destroy the future. Captain Jean-Luc Picard is our only hope from Assimilation into the Borg, provided he concentrates more on saving time then his own personal vendetta against the Borg for assimilating him into their Hive.Star Trek First Contact rocks. Plain and simple. There's fresh humor, grim and intense action, amazing acting, and an awesome story. The plot obviously revolves around Picard's memories of being a Borg, but Data is also one of the main characters as the Borg Queen tries to finally help him learn to be human...and turns him into the main villain instead. Patrick Stewart is grim-faced and rage-filled in this film, completely different from his calm and composed personality of Charles Xavier from X-Men. Brent Spiner gives his all in this film, taking Data to the max as he is tempted with the possibility of finally becoming human. The rest of the cast all perform well and Jonathan Frakes does a great job directing. Check this movie out, because resistance is futile.Signed, The Constant DVD Collector "}{"Title":"Alice Krige Looks Like This In Real Life!","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Many people believe this is the best of the ten Trek films, probably because the special effects are the most advanced, and it has the most violence. It's definitely the best of the Next Gen movies, and not a bad action flick, but it doesn't really feel like Star Trek to me.There are two parallel stories that play out in First Contact, and sometimes it feels like two separate movies. In Movie A, Picard and the crew of the Enterprise, having traveled to the 21st century in pursuit of a Borg ship, must defend the Enterprise as it is assimilated from within by the evil Borg Queen. It's a lot like Aliens, but without the cussing and acid blood. The corridors of the ship are dark and foreboding, the Borg are unemotional and quite scary, and fighting them seems hopeless. The Borg Queen, however, never really comes across clearly because it's obvious the writers just had no idea what she was supposed to be.Movie A is dark and exciting. Movie B, on the other hand, is light and fluffy, and a little slack. The more comically-oriented members of the crew beam down to 21st century Earth to help Zefram Cochrane repair his groundbreaking warp ship in time for a historic rendezvous with the Vulcans, and have to convince him to become the heroic character he is in the history books. Cochrane is understandably skeptical, not to mention drunk on tequila.The characters on the ground are oblivious to what's going on in space, so the two parallel plots are entirely separated by tone and content. One is dark and serious, the other light and funny. The writers tried too hard to make their movie appeal to everyone, and they end up with a bit of a mish-mash. The comic relief is forced and not very funny, and the action sequences on board ship lose some of their power once you realize how clean they are. After all, there's no blood in the future, and only extras get killed.Picard and Data get the most attention, with a few scenes reserved for Worf and a cameo from Voyager's holographic doctor. The other characters don't contribute much more than background exposition. The show was based solidly on its ensemble cast, so it's a little jarring to have that ensemble reduced to a hero and his sidekick. "},{"Title":"not the best star trek ever...but good","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" as a star trek fan i have to say that the next generation movies aren't the greatest in general - the originals were much better. kudos to the Rick Berman for still being able to come up with an idea for yet another film though and this is a fantastic story line for both experienced and unexperienced trekkers. whilst for the unexperienced trekker can enjoy the what the film says about the human race and the choices/actions that shape our world the experienced trekker can revel in the history being given to all the films and series we've already had. picards relationship with the Borg is interesting and put across well, especially in the initial sequence however one gets a little tired of his attitude towards the end of the film. whilst generations remains the all time best next generation film (ruined only by the lack of Leonard nimoy) first contact steams ahead of its following film insurrection in the sense of the action and the fantastic impression of the bond between the crew and their captain, and the captain and his ship. watch out for the moby dick quotes. "},{"Title":"Easily the BEST Star Trek film, in my opinion.","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When the film started - I felt as if the story line would be stretched thin from a previous STTNG episode, from where Picard was taken by the Borg. But, as usual with my predictions, I was proved wrong and I was taken on a wild journey with this film.It's safe to say the best point of this film - Is the Space-Battle at the beginning. Who can argue against a good fight? Federation ships vs a Cube on a Vendetta.To be honest, I don't have much to say about the film - but like the title says, its easily the best Star Trek film - full of action, and story line. It also contains a little love... But is that possible between robots?(People who've seen it, will understand ;) Anyway, buy it! Rent it! I advise you Buy it, as you can watch it for however long you want too! D "},{"Title":"Best Star Trek movie","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is by far the best Star Trek movie out there. My friend hates star trek, but I went over to his house once for a sleep-over and I rented First Contact and brought it over (I saw it in theaters though.). He loved it . He loved so much we were up till midnight making fake tricorders and com-badges so we could play star trek and pretend Borg were around his house. We even put flash lights on fake squirt guns to make them look like phaser rifles. This is the best star trek movie (Star TrekGenerations and the Undiscovered Country after). When that movie rental store went out of business (the one were I rented First Contact.) I bought that same star trek first contact I brought over to my friends house a few years earlier. Now when ever I go over there I bring it over. Anyway, best start trek movie out there. 5 stars.P.S. If your thinking of buying it, buy the VHS holographic cover First Contact (very cool). Or you could just buy the DVD that came out a couple of months ago. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Star Treck film!","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Treckies are weird and sometimes creepy but the movies should not be judged by the fan following that seems to be a bunch of nerdy idiots with no lives. I have only seen 2 Star Treck films; This and The Voyage home (which ill review next) and they have both been entertaining. I don't watch the t.v shows because I don't even know when there on and I have better things to do than watch a sci-fi soup opera.An intelligently handled plot involving the galaxy-conquering Borg and their attempt to invade Earth's past, alter history, and assimilate the entire human race. Time travel, a dazzling new Enterprise, and capable direction by Next Generation alumnus Jonathan Frakes makes this one rank with the best of the bunch. Capt. Picard (Patrick Stewart) and his able crew travel back in time to Earth in the year 2063, where they hope to ensure that the inventor of warp drive (played by James Cromwell) will successfully carry out his pioneering warp-drive flight and precipitate Earth's first contact with an alien race. A seductive Borg queen (Alice Krige) holds Lt. Data (Brent Spiner) hostage in an effort to sabotage the Federation's preservation of history, and the captive android finds himself tempted by the queen's tantalizing sins of the flesh! Sharply conceived to fit snugly into the burgeoning Star Trek chronology, First Contact leads to a surprise revelation that marks an important historical chapter in the ongoing mission to boldly go where no one has gone before. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The crew of the Enterprise is back for another round against the Borg in one of the best, if not the best Star Trek movie out there.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Starring Patrick Stewart, Jonathon Frakes, Brent Spiner, Michael Dorn So, maybe I haven't seen all the old Star Trek movies with Shatner and Nemoy and the rest of the original crew of the Enterprise, but maybe it's because I don't really want to. Maybe that makes me a bad person, or less of a Trekkie, but that's okay. Really, the only series that was truly worth watching was TNG. And to me, this IS the best Star Trek movie there is. Plain and simple.Those of us who are good TNG fans remember back when Captain Picard was captured and assimilated by the Borg, right? Man, what a crazy cliffhanger for that season. Picard is a Borg? Yikes. I know I was waiting for the new season on pins and needles. Anyway, the movie opens with Picard having some flashbacks from his little assimilation encounter. Then he wakes up, only to find himself in another nightmare. Then he wakes up for good.So it looks like the Borg are back on the move and ready to attack Earth. The Enterprise gets orders to stay away from the fight. Because of Picard's experience with the Borg, they don't want unstable elements in the situation. Eventually they disobey the order and join the fight anyhow. Picard takes command of the fleet and destroys the Borg cube. But a sphere ejects moments before its destruction. The Enterprise pursues, but then the sphere creates a vortex and vanishes into it. Time travel! So of course, the Enterprise charges in.When they get to the past, they find the sphere firing on a missile complex somewhere in Montana. They destroy the sphere, figure out where they are, when they are, why the Borg were firing at Montana (besides that they hate Americans), and the answers are as follows. It's the middle of the 21st century, and the missile complex is where Zefram Cochrane was building his warp ship. The launch tomorrow was supposed to be when a ship full of Vulcans which were cruising past detect the warp signature, alter course, and check out Earth. First contact with a human race. Hence the name of the movie.So at this point everything looks mostly okay, right? Borg are dead, just gotta help get Cochrane and his crew back on task and get things ready to go again, right? Wrong. Well, while the shields were down after the time travel, a few of the Borg might have beamed over to the Enterprise, and they're busily taking over the Enterprise from the inside.The mission for the Borg is still to stop first contact. The mission for the Enterprise is to save their ship and to keep first contact on schedule. Truly, this is a classy movie.Bottom Line 4 out of 4 (own this movie) "},{"Title":"some say it's the best","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" some critics have declared this to be the best of the Star Trek series. i must agree that in story and execution it is probably the most arthouse of the series. but as far as enjoyability, i loved 4 and 6 much more. this is enjoyable and the characters outside the usual star trek flunkies are quirky and in the case of the borg Goddess (okay, she's not a goddess, but she may as well be), malevolent while still being evilly fun. the execution of cochran was probably my biggest problem with this one in that i found the character lacking. the performance associated was dead on what it was supposed to be, but the character itself was noisome and irritating. he's a legend to the engineers of what will later be known as Star Fleet, and yet, he's so volatile yet emotionally and mentally...delicate. i don't know. it just seemed to me that by making him a responsibility-shirking drunk who developed warp drive because he could and not for a more noble reason, took away any power this movie could have mustered. it's okay, but not one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Best !","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Absolutely, the Best Star Trek of them ALL. Thank you Alfre Wooderd for an Excellent performance...Intense Drama and just enough Levity ! Perfect !!!!!The Borg Queen was Awesome, Scary and Beautiful at the same time. I'm sure I have watched this Movie at least 20 times, thank Gawwd for Short term memory ;-) Jerry Goldsmith's music was Superb. Music certainly sets the mood for a scean and the Musical score of this film surpasses ALL. Ooby Dooby is a real kick... Steppen Wolf's Magic Carpet Ride is music to go to the STARS with.I'm sure Data gave the Borg Queen a Night to remember as well ;-) GOP Data !!!!!Super "},{"Title":"Good movie but over rated.","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First Contact is probably the best STNG movie. But it just dosn't do it for me. There's nothing special about this STNG film. I've enjoyed all of the films, but this paticular crew just hav not found that thing that the original movies had. But, I have to say I like the direction Frakes took this film and the next in. STNG is capable of so much more. With that said, lots of great action, the borg were a good choice of villains. Picard ass kicking cpt was pretty cool. I really liked the zero gravity combat scene. "},{"Title":"Wrath of Khan be cursed, this is the best film of the series.","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" *** out of ****Wow. I don't recall the original crew ever getting anywhere near this physical. Star Trek First Contact, which features the Next Generation crew in their first solo outing, is an action-packed adventure that sets a pinnacle of achievement for this series. Much of the appeal of the Star Trek is that it favor ideas and dialogue over action scenes, both of which are elements I heartily enjoy. First Contact is best of the series because it successfully blends both approaches into one exhilarating thrill ride.The Borg, the most dangerous villains in Star Trek lore, have returned and have set a course for Earth. This time, they mean to assimilate the planet by going into the past to prevent Earth from achieving warp drive. Also caught in the temporal vortex, the Enterprise-E, led by Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart), follow in pursuit, determined to keep the Borg from destroying the human race. From there, the movie splits into two narratives. There is the crew's attempt to keep the warp drive operative and Picard's battle to keep the invading Borg from taking over the Enterprise.Star Trek Generations was a very enjoyable first outing for the Trek crew on the big screen, a promising start for what would hopefully lead to even bigger and better things. As a direct sequel, First Contact is indeed superior to not just Generations, but all its predecessors. With its complex plot and amazing special effects, the film is an intelligent, fast-paced thriller. The abundant action sequences are tense and exciting. From the spectacular opening space battle to the phaser fights and the hand-to-hand combat, this is easily the most thrilling Trek adventure to date, and it's an added bonus it's also the most ingeniously plotted. The standout sequence, a battle on the hull of the Enterprise, is a lengthy, suspenseful action setpiece, and perhaps the best sequence of the entire franchise. With Patrick Stewart's riveting performance and Brent Spiner's excellent portrayal of Data, the movie also boasts compelling drama, an element lacking in most other entries. Jerry Goldsmith's rousing score nicely accompanies the action and the final minutes even manage to deliver a sense of awe that the best of science fiction aspire to. First Contact is exciting sci-fi action and a must see, even if you aren't a fan of Star Trek. "}{"Title":"A great film, even if you don't like Star Trek","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** First off, let me say that I'm not a huge fan of Star Trek The Next Generation. I'll watch it, but I find the characters are just too straight-up and unrealistic- you know that they're always right and they always win. Which was partly why this made such an excellent film. The character of Captain Picard was properly explored (is he fighting for what is right, or merely what he perceives as right?), as was that of the android Data (far removed from the comic relief role he had in the early years of the television series).The storyline is this the Borg, cybernetic hive organisms who specialise in assimilating entire species and turning them into single-minded drones, have travelled back in time to prevent humanity from making first contact with alien life and plan to take over the Earth. Picard, who has previous experience of the Borg, goes against his orders and follows them back to the twenty-first century. There, humanity is recovering from the Third World War and Zephram Cochran is about to make the first ever flight in a faster-than-light vessel. The crew of the Enterprise have to fight the Borg off and still ensure that the flight goes ahead in accordance with history.The Borg are excellent villains in this film. Virtually immune to almost every weapon, silent and ruthless, they are a genuinely menacing threat. In contrast to the smooth and clean Enterprise crew, they are dark and dirty. Alice Krige as the Borg Queen exudes a seductive cruelty.Zephram Cochran is a particularly interesting component- someone who deflates the pretensions of the twenty-fourth century and also raises the question of what our heroes were really like- were they really as great as we think they were?All in all, this is a movie which manages to combine action, intelligent concepts and good characterisation. This is rare enough in cinema; to see it in the eighth entry of a movie franchise based upon a TV series is a revelation. You won't like it if you hate science fiction, but you'll like it even if you aren't a Trek fan.Best line? Assimilate this! A few complaints (spoiler alert)1. If the Borg are so fearsome, how come they're such bad shots?2. Lieutenant Hawk. Here is the regular crew, and here is Lieutenant Hawk, whom we have never seen before. Which one do you think gets assimilated?3. All the Borg drones die when the Queen is killed- now, that can't make much evolutionary sense. "},{"Title":"Bald guy shoots Borg with Tommy gun.","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The above was the best part of the film, that and the 'Assimilate this' bit with Worf and crew outside. Some good action and suspense there, sure. I liked seeing Stretch Armstrong play Orville Wright, though How he managed to finangle warp drive out in the sticks....must still be able to order from Acme, I suppose, in 2063. Oh well-the time travel bit was fun, Alfre Woodard does a good job, its fun to see that it was Vulcans we ran into first, hmmmm-the cast and crew are in good form pretty much-clearly this is the best of the 3 Newbie Gen. films. Too bad Insurrection was such a snooze.*** outta ****, pretty good. "},{"Title":"A halfway decent film, but . . .","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If there is anything that rubs me the wrong way fast, that is a revisionist! Most serious trekkers will remember that Zefrem Cochrane is from Alpha Centauri.  In the original series, Kirk and company find him on a deserted planetoid.  Rick Berman is trying to remake Star Trek into his own creation. If he can't work within the framework, then he needs to get out!I also have some problems with the first part of the movie.  Apparently the writers have no idea how a military organization works.  Picard could not have risen so far in Star Fleet by trying stunts such as taking over the Fleet after being ordered to stay away.  Besides, if Star Fleet was worried about Picard's loyalties, they would not have put him in command of the newest flagship of the fleet.Berman and company had better go back and watch their own shows concerning the Borg.  The very idea of having a Borg Queen who, in direct violation of her own philosophy, is an independent thinker is an oxymoron!  Come on people.  It don't take a whole lot to get these things right, especially in light of the development time usually allotted for movies!If I were not such a devotee of Star Trek and did not have any foreknowledge of things Star Trek, I would have enjoyed this film very much.  The story moved along at a good pace and the action was lively.  Casting my major irritations aside, I did not get a chance to get bored while watching the film.  I think Jonathan Frakes did an excellent job as director.   "},{"Title":"The best Trek...","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A day after its opening, I went to see First Contact. Half way through the film I knew it was the best Trek film yet. And as of 1999, First Contact is still the best Trek film of all time. The effects and story were great. The Borg assimilating the new Enterprise-E was interesting and the sub story on Earth was hilarious. The best parts of all were the scenes with Data and the Borg Queen. Star Trek First Contact is a must see. I give it 4 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"The best Trek film by far","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite Trek movie over all. Although I'm a huge Star Wars fan, I'm not afraid to admit that Trek has its strengths and weaknesses when it comes to comparing the two, but I'm not going to today. Not in this review.You know what it's about and what happens, so let's get to it. What did I like? Well, the dogfight at the beginning could've been a hell of a lot longer, but it was nice while it lasted. The dark edginess and entire feel/look of the movie was something to watch. My congrats go out to John Frakes for doing a great job in his first main stream directing job.The crew of the Enterprise-E perform as great as usual, and the supporting cast also hit their marks right on time. Other congrats go out to ILM for bringing us another great effects film. And to that guy who created the Borg (forget his name, but know they were originally supposed to be like bees) I want to thank you for creating the best and most scariest villains in the Trek universe. Keep it up. "},{"Title":"Borg Queen? Give me a break!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What vulcan mind meld came up with the idea for a borg queen? Why would they need one? They just assimilate other races anyway, and it appeared that the queen was just a head with a mechanical body, so she certainly was not needed to reproduce. A totally ludicrous idea that really turned me off the borg.Once I would like to see someone in a Star Trek film use some common sense when it comes to small unit combat. Running through the Enterprise with nothing more than a phaser to fight marauding borg is just silly. What about personal shields, cloaking devices, automatic targeting devices. If they can travel at warp speeds and replicate matter, then certainly they should have some better method than pointing, shooting and hoping for the best.Other than using 20th century methods to deal with 24th century problems, the film was basically OK.  "},{"Title":"This was a GREAT movie","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure why everyone here seems to hate this movie. Every complaint seems to be nerdy Trekky babble. I'm not a big Star Trek fan, but I do like the Next Generation. I didn't care too much for Generations, but this one was excellent. Insurrection wasn't too bad either. First Contact had a great story and Frakes did an excellent job of directing. I'm also very happy Jerry Goldsmith was brought in to score this movie along with Insurrection. McCarthy's score to Generations was very boring. His work was fine for the show, but it doesn't really work in a movie.If you want to see an excellent movie, see First Contact. In my opinion, the best of the Star Trek series.  "},{"Title":"Best Of Both Worlds Part 3","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ok, first off I think we can disregard I,Borg and Descent,  First Contact is the sequel to Best Of Both Worlds. As Jonathan Frakes major movie directorial debut he did a fantastic job, the people to blame for this movies flaws are the producers who will insist on continually writing the stories, I think it's time for some fresh blood.  This movie is visually pleasing and I was blown away the first time I saw it, but every time I have tried to watch it at home it continually puts me to sleep. I was disappointed to see that Dennis McCarthy didn't score the film after the fantastic job he did on Generations, this isn't to say I didn't like the soundtrack for First Contact I just think Generations is better. I was also a bit disappointed to see the rest of the crew not including Picard, Data or Wolf being relegated to comic relief, again this a reflection on the writers not the director. I would like to see Jonathan Frakes direct the next few ST films with new writers and a bit less control given to the producers, after all this isn't television.  Overall not a bad film but not the best either. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek Film EVER!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Enterprise, defiant and whole host of other federation ships fire phasers and launch torpedoes at the menacing borg cube as it looms into shot, to kick off the best ST film ever. This action packed good vs. evil film uses the clever and complicated history of the Star Trek legacy to its full effect without boring the viewer. The CGI images are astounding in quality as only a handful of the ships seen in the initial combat sequence are real models!!! Acting from Patrick Stuart really gives the film a boost. If you want to see Phaser Rifles blazing, Quantum Torpedoes roaring and Federations ships getting massacred left right and centre this is the Film for you.The Film has a story (sometimes lacked in action packed movies), action and best of all a sound core of talented actors. The perfect mix! (GET THE WIDE SCREEN VERSION TO TAKE FULL BENIFIT OF THE FILM COMBAT SEQUENCES AND CLEVER CAMERA TECHNEQUES) "},{"Title":"Good--not great.","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While infinitely better than its predecessor, this movie has several major flaws in it that keep it from being what many consider to be the 'best of the series'. First, the lack of internal consistency...Zephram Cochrane was established to be from Alpha Centauri in the first seriers...how the hell does he get from Earth to there, much less being KNOWN as Zephram Cochrane OF Alpha Centauri?  Secondly, and more important, the character of Lily seems ridiculous, especially with regards to her relationship with Picard.  We are to assume that this Starship Captain has lost all emotional stability and reasoning, but a woman he hardly knows (not his crew at all) is the one who brings it back to him?However, the Borg Queen more than makes up for this, giving a chillingly disturbing and at the same time vaguely erotic performance in her role.The last thing, though, that I find annoying...how many ways can they find to get Worf back among the crew? He's gone to DS9...let him stay there... "}{"Title":"Move over Shatner, they did it.","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As much as I like the first 7 movies (fave being Kahn) - the new crew blew the other flicks out of the water with thismovie. Here's to another 8 Trek films with Picard at the helm! "},{"Title":"It wasn't bad.","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Compared to The Wrath of Kahn and The Undiscovered Country, this one comes in 3rd.  While it was a good movie since the Borg were in it and we got a chance to see how Vulcans and Humans first met, there are a few problems with it.First of all, you'd think a shot from a borg ship would be a lot more accurate and more destructive, they should have been able to destroy the whole missile complex.  Second of all where did Picard get all of this revenge and anger from?  I thought he dealt with it in I, Borg, I mean he had a chance there to destroy all the Borg there ever was, but he dealt with it his anger and revenge, and let them live.  Plus how didn't the Vulcans pick up the Enterprise?  Ok, the moon's gravity obsucured the warp drive, but what about the quantum torpedoes and the destruction of the Borg Sphere.Don't get me wrong, I liked the movie, but there are several flaws that just don't make sense. "},{"Title":"Fascinating!!!","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact is the best Star Trek movie ever! Jonathan Frakes did a wonderful work as director and actor of William Riker. But the best thing about the movie is the return of Barclay in a short, but great scene with LaForge and Cochrane. "},{"Title":"Best of All!","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watched Star Trek FC sometime in October '97. To tell you the truth, it didn't make too much of an impression to me at all. The second time i watched it, i liked it a lot better. I watched it for once more and even got better. That's Star Trek First Contact. You can't get enough of it, no matter how many times you'll watch it! It's great! Straight story, great performances (Picard is great and Data finally got to handle his emotion chip!), the Borg are worse than ever and this Star Trek movie also refers to the the very very first contact, like another great movie, Contact. Thank you all. "},{"Title":"The best TNG film","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is definitely the best of the TNG films, which generally don't live up to the excellent television series. It's my second favourite Star Trek film after The Wrath of Khan, which is likewise a sequel to one of its respective series' best episodes.Patrick Stewart is even better than usual as the atypically vulnerable Captain Picard. Like Khan in the aforementioned film, he becomes obsessed with destroying his foe and, in both films, comparison is drawn with Captain Ahab of Moby Dick. Unlike Ahab and Khan, however, he is brought back from the brink before his obsession can lead to his death. The interesting thing is that this is not done by Riker or Beverly or one of the other main characters but by Lily Sloane, brilliantly played by Alfre Woodard. She is the best new female character in any film in the series since Saavik in The Wrath of Khan. I think that she can say the things that she does because she is an outsider who is not privy to the so-called evolved sensibility of the 24th Century, which is deconstructed well in the film in a manner more typical of DS9 than TNG.The rest of the TNG cast is as good as ever, particularly Brent Spiner. Marina Sirtis has fairly little screen time but, as the drunk Deanna, gets the funniest scene in the film and one of the funniest in the character's 15 year history. James Cromwell is a great addition to the cast as Zefram Cochrane, who is not the legendary, selfless figure that the Enterprise crew believed him to be. He is a good man but a flawed one. He feels very much like a real person. I love that the film takes this approach as in reality many historical figures, even those who were alive within living memory, are mythologised and become paragons of virtue even though they were deeply flawed. That is not to say that they were bad people. They were just normal.The Borg were used brilliantly. In the entire franchise, I think that they were only better used in Best of Both Worlds. Jonathan Frakes does an excellent job as director. One little thing that I really liked about this film was that it did a very good job of explaining the backstory for the benefit of people who weren't familiar with it. I've been watching Star Trek since 1995 so I didn't need the backstory filled in for me when I first saw it, let alone now, but a problem that I had with Generations was that it didn't explain who Lursa and B'Etor were. B'Etor's name isn't even mentioned in the film. "},{"Title":"The Last Great Trek Film","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I would say that this is the last great Trek film which resembles Gene Roddenberry's vision of the series.All the magic ingredients are there, the sense of family and interaction between the crew, the jeopardy, the message and even the ship, all come together to give us what Star Trek was all about in just under two hours.Special efx are great, Alice Krige as the Borg Queen somehow manages to be sexy and creepy at the same time, there is a wonderful scene between her and Data which also somehow manages to be highly erotic though the only flesh on show is Data's wrist..........For me, I find it both sad and astonishing to see how quickly Star Trek burnt out with the next film, perhaps less could have been more and the franchise should have been rested after this last great film? What came next lost the magic and even JJ Abrams' offerings are Flatland 2D efforts in Roddenberry's 3D Trek universe; flat cardboard and wafer-thin plots with no substance, plot, message or wonder whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Remarkably Good Movie - not JUST for Trek fans!","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My wife and I watched the last 40 minutes of this movie on TV last night. She works for a production company that worked on Into Darkness, and she had never seen any of the older Star Trek movies. I had seen First Contact when it came out in theaters, and I remembered that I really enjoyed it. At first I figured, Well, I was a kid, and everything that involved space ships and lasers and explosions was cool back then. Boy, was I wrong.First Contact is not simply a sci-fi movie. In many ways, it is a movie about accepting responsibility and going the extra mile to do the right thing. Whether it's Picard refusing to abandon ship, or Data struggling to reject becoming a human (something he's always wanted), or Cochrane struggling to muster up the balls to test his FTL ship. Does it help to be a Star Trek fan? No, not really. It's not like they blindly reference old episodes from the show without any explanation - everything that happens is explained and easy to understand. Still, unlike JJ Abrams, this movie isn't dumbed down to encourage non-fans to give it a shot.I was surprised to find myself emotionally invested in the ending, especially after only tuning in over half-way through and having to explain several plot points to my wife (amazingly, I remembered MUCH more than I thought). And here's the crazy part, folks you know how you can be flipping through the channels, come across a show or movie you haven't seen in a long time, it keeps your interest until the first commercial break, and then you change the channel? That didn't happen. My wife and I watched the whole damn thing - it kept our attention the entire time. And when a movie can do that, you know it's worth watching.I highly recommend this movie. I'll go so far as to say I think it's better than Wrath of Khan. Yeah, I said it! "},{"Title":"This is my first contact with this film. Resistance is futile. You will love this movie as well.","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In my opinion, this movie was pretty good. I love the analysis of Captain Jean Luc Picard's (Patrick Stewart) quest for revenge against the Borg being similar to Herman Melville's Moby Dick character Ahab whom in the book wanted revenge on a White Whale that took his leg. Six years ago, he was assimilation by the cybernetic Borg, and barely escape from it as shown in Star Trek The Next Generation episode 'The Best of Both Worlds'. It's weird how there is two types of Picards. Picard here in the movie is like James T. Kirk, who acts in violence, disobey orders, and have pointless action scenes. In the TV series, Picard is a intelligent, mostly non-violence person who doesn't act upon violence unless it's a last resort. In the TV series, Picard was even nice to the Borgs choosing not to wipe them out when he had the chance because he believe that Borgs have the right to live. This belief happen after 'The Best of Both Worlds' episodes. Here in the movie, Picard is like I want to kill them all. Love the Holograph rampage that become a Internet meme later on. It's weird in a way, that the Federation was trying to stop Captain Jean Luc Picard from joining the Borg battle due to that reason. Despite him, knowing more about the enemy than anybody else in the Federation. I thought they would use him.In the past, at less in the Next Generation episodes, Picard was allowed to take control of three ships to kill the Borgs when they were trying to destroy a few space colonies. Anyways, Picard didn't follow the orders and join the fight against the Borgs in the beginning of the movie. Don't feel bad, Picard; the cast of Deep Space Nine wasn't invited despite USS Defiant being there. At less, the doctor from USS Voyager had a cameo in the film which was kinda funny. The Borgs were attacking Earth so they can assimilation them, but this is where the plot get confusing. The Borgs assimilates some, but allow others to live, because they don't find them a threat. By others- I meant people with guns.The writers of the movie wanted a story involving the Borgs, but the producer wanted a story involving time travel. The writers combined the two ideas; they initially set the film during the European Renaissance, but changed the time period the Borg corrupted to the mid-21st century after fearing the Renaissance idea would be too much like a bathetic novel. It would had been campy and over the top. Plus, Picard in tights wouldn't be a pretty sight. The entire plot doesn't make much sense, anyways. Rather than going to a remote part of space and time travel to Earth which would be safer for their Cube ship. They go near 24th century Earth where they were attack by hundreds of space ships. The cube ship is no shock destroy, as a Borg sphere ship escapes back into time in a worm hole which the USS Enterprise follows. The Enterprise arrives in the past, on April 4, 2063, the day before humanity's first contact with alien life after Zefram Cochrane's (James Cromwell) historic warp drive flight. James Cromwell was great and funny in the role. It's so unlike most of his serious dull roles that mostly follow his career. Still, it was a bit weird to see him play Cochrane and yet play other bit characters in the TV series such in the episodes 'The Hunted' and 'The Birth Right'. I just can't like Cochrane's assistant Lily Sloane (Alfre Woodard) because she always just in the way, and brings nothing to the table. Anyways the plot goes from assimilation them to now stopping first contact, which doesn't make any sense. If the humans never went to space the Borg would have never heard of them, so they wouldn't know they existed, so in a way, there would be erasing their history as well since there was no need to go to the Planet Earth. Plus, why are they assimilating them anyways? The Borg aren't primarily interested in humanity, a lesser species with unimpressive technology. They're making it seem that way, to attract the attention of the being they really want to assimilate says Q. Honestly, John de Lancie's omnipotent character Q was indeed in one of the first drafts of the screenplay. Anyways, the Borg Queen (Alice Krige) is probably my second favorite Star Trek villain besides Khan. She was pure evil. Alice was such a trooper. Krige suffered a large amount of discomfort filming her role; her costume was too tight, causing blisters, and the painful silver contact lenses she wore could only be kept in for four minutes at a time. Love the make up on her. The Borg were redesigned to appear as though they were converted into machine beings from the inside-out; the new makeup sessions took four times as long as on the television series. The supporting cast of the crew did what they can. Nothing worth saying about their acting. Commander Worf's (Michael Dorn) head still looks like a fanny. The special effect are great, surprising in the fact that Industrial Light & Magic rushed through it to complete the film's special effects in less than five months before the release date. The music is amazing, and yet another great job by Jerry Goldsmith. Love hearing Stepphenwolf 'Magic Carpet Ride in the film. Director and cast member Jonathan Frakes AKA William Riker did a good job with his first film. Despite the sloppy writing and vague assumptions. I will admit the plot is full of holes, but I still really like this movie. There's a few inconsistencies, but they're forgivable with how great the action is. I know the Time Travel thing is a pretty bland idea, but overall this was quite an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Perfection","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The quintessential example of how a Star Trek movie should be done;(1) TNG cast are awesome (as usual), (2) The Enterprise has a new make over, (3) Beverley Crusher looking hotter than ever, (4) Great battle scenes, (5) Awesome new weapon with a cool name - Quantum torpedo, (6) The Borg - the best ST protagonist ever, (7) Witty dialogue and excellent character interactions (8) Troi was even decent !!! (9) The Borg Queen was fantastically portrayed (10) A truly awesome musical score........ what more is there to say? all but perfect!(The review is so concise and succinct that I have to add this to meet the minimum line requirements P) "},{"Title":"I do hope that my first contact with First Contact will be the last.","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I don't know about you, but shouldn't the principal characters in 1996's Star Trek First Contact be divulging as little information as possible to certain others of whom will go on to achieve certain things? The issue rears up when the likes of the Next Generation crew of Star Trek's famous U.S.S. Enterprise end up travelling quite a way back in time. Once there, they meet a man who will go on to attain levels of greatness and achieve certain things within a specific field that make everything within the 'universe' of Star Trek possible. Whilst the crew are there, they will inform him of all the great things he will do, say and leave behind once he is officially acknowledged of his invention more broadly along the lines of a space vessel capable of travelling great distances at great speed. How it is the crew get to be as far back in the past is down to the fact it had already been changed to a greatly dramatic and detrimental effect anyway; thus, it seems a little odd that these people would be doing their utmost to revel in tempting things to be different by dangling the carrot of change in-front of a man destined to make everything as it once was.Then again, such blundering thought processes are at the core of First Contact - the first Star Trek entry up to this 1996 point to which I did not necessarily take, a bland and ill-thought through piece with a distinct lack of sense applied to a delicate situation, one might say neatly summarising the overall application of film-making to the project as a whole. In short, it is a fairly tepid; muddled and underwhelming, in spite of the great stakes, entry to a series that has indeed surprised me in its accessibility. Patrick Stewart returns as the captain of this still fresh crew, a certain Jean-Luc Picard, and he is so good at filling the role of the boss that one does not at any point long for the days of Shatner's Kirk; not that he wasn't any good, on the contrary, but we acknowledge things have shifted and do not necessarily 'miss' what once was. We observe Picard being plagued by nightmares of time he once spent as captive to a species known as The Borg, a fierce race of militarian begins the step up in aggression stakes from that of the Klingons and often resembling Terminator's following the removing of half of their facial skin surfaces.Out of nowhere, The Borgs attack Earth and there is a grandeur space battle during which the Enterprise resist orders and chip in &#x96; something which culminates in the getting caught up in a time warp wherein The Borg have successfully invaded Earth, after having gone back to the fallout of World War Three in the 2060's, and the year the Vulcan's came to make First Contact. Stunned, the Enterprise nip into the time stream and end up further back in the past in an attempt to make it so that history followed on correctly. Key to proceedings is James Cromwell's Zefram Cochrane, a shambling, often drunk, sheepskin coat wearing Roy Orbison enthusiast whom we're told is capable of creating a space ship and has advanced skills in the mathematics and sciences required to do such a thing. Here is the man who will build something so important that nearby space crafts will pick up on it and realise that Earth has advanced its technology.Milling around in this backwater town, made more famous for its clumps of missile silos, are The Borg out to thwart history for their own means. The Borg make for poor enemies; they shuffle, zombie-like, around corridors and terrains wielding large guns they cannot properly use &#x96; rarely do they strike us as the advanced and all-conquering beings we're told they are, and how they managed to navigate things so well during that opening space dogfight in their successful battling all those Federation ships is beyond me. They are led by a character played by Alice Krige, who aims for imposing and empowered, but just comes across a more of a character eventually rejected from Roger Vadim's sci-fi disaster Barbarella. Mirroring what Nimoy pulled off on two occasions, Jonathan Frakes plays boss of the piece in his role as the director whilst navigating being the second fiddle on screen to his Captain. The film is not particularly well directed, with this sense of things feeling as if they're advancing, what with the threat levels being what they are and what's at stake being what it is, without anything actually progressing. Additionally, not once do we really feel that Earth is this scene of post-global war fallout and is struggling to get by; the sets striking us as precisely that &#x96; the film has a hollow 'stagey' feel to it.Often in these sorts pictures, one's lead is defined to be suffering some deep emotional trauma and must undergo a rigorous quest detailed within the film so as to undo it; in this case, Picard's conquering of his fear of The Borg and setting records straight. Such a sentiment will sound bland and terribly Hollywoodised, but the suggestion is most certainly there via the opening scenes, items eventually rendered misdemeanours; mere 'shock' sequences designed to pull you in from the beginning while systematically establish The Borg's nature in what is a crude approach. There transpires not to be any greater extent of a study of combating one's demons as was evident in 1994's previous entry, a film making a case study of grief involving that of the aforementioned Picard and a nemesis. The film settles down into being a strange mesh between that of Cameron's 1986 film Aliens and Star Trek's own fourth entry The Voyage Home; the former more exciting without itself uprooting any trees and the latter possessing the same director/actor dynamic but being the more economic Star Trek entry. "}{"Title":"I will make them pay!","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is very plot and action driven more than any other Star Trek movie out there. It drops into the conflict, and the story leaves you hooked all the way to the end. It's one of the best Star Trek action films ever made.Something to remember about this film is that Borg really weren't that scary looking before in stories before this film. They really got a makeup overhaul in this film. The writers also expanded on an Original Series character from the episode, Metamorphosis, Zephram Cochrane.Since Star Trek is a story in the future, this film helps to connect the story of the future to the present. This film also helps to shape one of the most ruthless characters in the Star Trek story. The Borg should really be viewed as one character, not a species. We see new parts to the character such as the Queen. She thinks of herself as god, I am the beginning and end, the one who is many. She really is one of the scariest villains. Moby Dick is tied in as an allegory to the story (which was also a tied theme in The Wrath of Khan). Patrick Stewart's character is so enraged at how these people have taken away his dignity, how they have killed millions upon millions of people, they can't be reasoned with, and they don't stop. Picard is likened to Ahab for fighting the Borg with so much rage that he's willing to destroy his ship and his officers who have been changed into Borg.Data's journey to become human also takes many leaps as the Borg offer him the temptations to embrace his humanity through them in greater ways. I never thought of the Borg as such an insidious, snake-ish villain until this film. They don't just consume civilizations, they erode morality, identity, reasoning, and everything that makes someone a person. That's what makes this villain so scary.This film can be appreciated by people who don't have a knowledge of Trek, and this is also one of the most important films in the franchise's saga. Much of Star Trek Enterprise was built off of this film. "},{"Title":"One of the best Star Trek movies","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek has always spoken to me, being set in the future with seemingly limitless options and a almost magical technology. But in First Contact the crew of the Enterprise set out to stop a Borg attack on earth in their own past, our near future, where the legendary Zefram Cochrane is just about to launch the first human built warp-capable spaceship. This the Borg is intent to stop, opening up the Earth for Borg conquest. Only Picard and his crew stand in their way. But Cochrane isn't as his legend tells him to be, and Picard must also deal with a Borg infestation on Enterprise.Despite not being set in its own time, but the near future, First Contact is one of my Star Trek favorites. With the movie almost divided into two subplots, the race to finish Cochrane's ship and the fight against the Borg, the movie contains both what is best with Star Trek. The sense of exploration and pure sci-fi action. And Frakes, in his role as director, handles the two plots very well. They interact without getting in each other's way, which is the tricky part. First Contact is simply entertaining from beginning to end.A key part is the cast. The crew of the Enterprise is very good as always, but it is almost Cromwell's depiction of the legendary Cochrane that makes the movie. One of the best anti-heroes I ever seen and a role that gives both depth and humor to the story.If you seen much Star Trek before, knowing the history will help, but I think First Contact might also be a good first step into the Star Trek world.8/10 "},{"Title":"unoriginal concept salvaged by good execution -- fantasy not sci-fi","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As a long-time Star Trek fan who nevertheless didn't warm up to either series until The Next Generation moved into its 2nd and 3rd seasons, I give this movie a recommendation, but with some personal reservations.It's a decent action film and probably appeals to the casual audience more than any other film in the series outside of The Voyage Home. The Borg Queen is a popular villainess, and for good reasons &#150; the FX were outstanding and Alice Krige's performance is sexy and appropriately intimidating. The time travel theme is a sci-fi theme that audiences are familiar with and that presents opportunities for anachronistic humor that are irresistible. James Crowmell is a magnificent actor with charisma to spare, and even those unfamiliar with Captain Picard will find Patrick Stewart's performance convincing and intriguing. He's been given an excellent foil from the past, Lily Sloane (Alfre Woodard), who brings out a lot of dimension in Picard and goes a long way towards helping anyone who hasn't seen previous Trek outings to see what distinguishes Picard and his crew from your generic space soldiers (they are Roddenberry People). In fact the introduction of a normal character into the fantasy environment is a key component of successful fantasy storytelling; this device is discussed in J.R.R. Tolkien's essay On Faerie Stories and was used by Tolkien and C.S. Lewis as well as many who followed after them. It should be noted however that it's a fantasy theme or device, not science fiction.The film isn't as impressive for those who are already familiar with the Trek world and who expected (or at least hoped) the Next-Generation movies would take the universe and its characters into uncharted frontiers. The original series didn't really develop its characters, only focused on 3 primary characters and kept those characters and their relationships constant through the 3 season run. In the Original Series (TOS) films, however, Kirk Spock and McCoy go through a series of character developments that alter their personal stories while keeping their relationship mostly intact. Strangely, the situation is reversed for Next Generation (TNG) &#150; the series paid attention to a larger group of crew members and spent a lot of time developing those characters and their relationships (Worff dated Troi, Data turned out to have a twin brother and met his creator, etc.). However when TNG went to film virtually all character development was abandoned. Part of the problem is unavoidable to a certain extent &#150; after all, there are simply too many characters involved to give each of them screen time and still advance an interesting plot. But I wish that they had tried a little harder to incorporate actual sci-fi ideas instead of just turning the series into another action franchise cloaked in sci-fi costumes and set pieces. Many steps backward have been taken &#150; the Borg no longer have a truly alien collective mind but are instead drones led by a Queen Bee type. As much fun as the Borg Queen is, she doesn't represent any new interesting ideas about the Borg and wouldn't be out of place in any action film out there. Also there is a lot of repetition here &#150; the time travel story feels familiar from The Voyage Home and of course the Borg have already been seen many times in episodes of the show. I've never understood why the producers at Paramount kept thinking that they needed to recycle stories from the shows, especially after the negative fan reaction to VGER in the first film. It's boring for the fans. So it's impossible for me to really give an objective reaction to this film, seeing as I've already been exposed to so much of the material in its original form when it was actually better done.I also think that the sequence outside the ship with the deflector dish didn't work out very well, much too slow and improbable. Why did the Borg die when Picard let all that green stuff out of the big tube but they were fine walking along in space without suits? Stuff like that is probably stuff that the writers intentionally don't worry about and think that fans are too petty &#150; but basically what they've done is to turn sci-fi into fantasy. And it's somewhat insulting to our intelligence. On the commentary, the writers say that fans don't want to hear about how time travel works and so they just make it really easy for the Enterprise to travel in time after the Borg. As far as I'm concerned, that underestimates the audience greatly and it's indicative of the reasons why this film feels so unintelligent and uninspired.But not to be totally negative &#150; even from a fan perspective the James Cromwell is a fun character and does provide a subtle kind of tribute in that certain aspects of his character remind us of Gene Roddenberry himself. What made Roddenberry's series so different from previous sci-fi was that he presented us a utopic world that we'd all love to explore, but he peopled it with believably flawed human beings. Woodard's character is also very well done and the scene in the Captain's quarters (this far and no further!) was a stunner to be sure. I loved how she said Jean-Luc, blow up the damn ship! The Borg Queen herself was very well done if you ignore the fact that it damages the concept of the Borg collective itself. The space battle at the beginning is very nice to look at, as is the sequence with the camera's eye drawing back from Picard's Borg eye to reveal the whole ship. But for this fan, I couldn't escape the feeling of been there, seen that. However, from another perspective, looking at how poorly the subsequent films and TV series turned out, this film represents basically the last quality Star Trek product ever produced. So it deserves at least some affection simply on that basis. "},{"Title":"The only TNG feature film to get everything right","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek The Next Generation was one of the finest SF series ever to grace TV screens. It started off a bit shakily, but when it found its footing in the third season, it paved the way for some of the very best SF stories you could ever hope to see on television. I still miss it dearly to this day.But the TNG feature films have proved much more variable. Star Trek Generations was a major disappointment to everyone. It looked like an episode for the series that had found its way onto the big screen by mistake. And there was a feeling of tiredness to the whole enterprise (no pun intended). TNG was completely caught off guard in its new medium, and the film suffered as a result.Two years afterwards came their next feature film, Star Trek First Contact. And the good news is this film is a massive improvement. Mainly because this one is more prepared for the big screen beforehand. Superb direction, incredible special effects and a quite multilayered screenplay to work from turn this into one of the best Trek films ever made. Its everything the first film wasn't.First Contact is directed by Jonathan Frakes, AKA Commander William Riker in the series. Frakes directed a handful of TNG episodes during his time on the show. Indeed the Season 5 episode Cause and Effect was his single finest hour as director.Because Frakes has experience directing the cast, he knows how to bring out the best from each and every one of them. And although FC is his first time out directing a feature film, he slides into the role with confidence and assurance. First Contact is a class act all the way. It delivers on every level.The reason why FC is my favourite of all the TNG films is that the villains of the piece are the Borg. For the unenlightened, the Borg are a race of cyborgs who transform every civilisation they encounter into Borg. They operate as a vast collective consciousness. They travel the galaxy in ships shaped like giant cubes. And they can adapt to any weapon used against them.The Best of Both Worlds was a truly stunning two-parter. The infamous story where Captain Picard was assimilated into the Borg collective. And Frakes does a superb job tying that story's plot line into this one.The Borg attempted to assimilate Earth in TBOBW, and try again in FC. But through a different means, time travel. The Borg travel back to the year 2063, a pivotal moment in history for the human race. Because this is the year when humans develop the warp drive. The Borg try to wipe out the scientist who built the warp ship that will lead to the formation of Starfleet. And its up to Picard and crew to stop them and preserve their future.First Contact is a film of three interweaving plots. First, the Enterprise crew's battle with the Borg. Making sure the warp flight goes to plan. And the Borg Queen's seduction of Data.Frakes is a natural talent in the directors chair. He keeps each individual story going at a breathless pace. The tone of the film is exciting, menacing, funny and moving at all of the right moments. Perfectly complemented by a superb film score from the late Jerry Goldsmith.The Borg's invasion of the Enterprise is gripping stuff. They look more menacing than ever. Which is good considering the direction the writers took the Borg in the series.Although I'm a huge fan of Star Trek, the series has an annoying habit of wimpifying its enemies. And that includes the Borg. They're much later appearances in the series involved the Borg's encounters with emotions, which only served to dilute them as an enemy. But Frakes has made the wise choice of returning them to they're former glory. Implacable, unrelenting, and unstoppable. Which is as it should be.Any scenes with the Borg on the ship are as scary as anything you'd see in Aliens. The tension level jumps right into the red whenever they're around. And Frakes milks it for all its worth. Not only are there fierce firefights in the ship, there's a corker of a Borg fight outside the ship too. When Picard and a couple of others fight them on the hull in spacesuits.Jonathan Frakes also shows a talent for special effects with FC. The new Enterprise is a sleek spectacle, inside and out. Although I still miss the old one. The Borg sets are awesome, and even occasionally operatic, such as the stunning opening shot of a Borg Hive. And the Borg costumes are better than ever.The scenes with James Cromwell as the inventor of the warp drive are comic relief to the serious stuff. But its amusing when he turns out to be not the paragon of humanity they've always envisioned him to be. And Cromwell does a great number of rotations from cocksure to cavalier and eventual horror at the future mapped out for him.I suppose if FC has one fault, its a little derivative. It borrows from a few sources like The Terminator, Aliens and Alien. But it takes all of the good qualities of those films and combines them into a rollicking, fast-paced action-packed thrill ride.And all the cast do their part. Patrick Stewart's on fine form, and he's up to the action scenes as well. Alice Krige is sexy and scary in equal measure as the Borg Queen, and her seduction of Brent Spiner's Data is skin-crawling to say the least.First Contact is the best of the TNG feature films because it strikes the perfect balance. Jonathan Frakes makes sure each storyline is given room to breathe, and there are plenty of in-jokes and surprise cameos for die-hard fans.Superb stuff! "},{"Title":"Now Here's A Good One!","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After the mind-numbing debacle of Generations, it's refreshing to see a Star Trek movie that actually has depth, heart, commitment, and wit once again... a ship that, before this movie, hadn't flown across the silver screen for five years.First Contact has a plot line that embodies humanity's perpetual struggle to wipe out evil and oppression (the struggle we're doing so very well with now in real life... not). The enemy are the mindless Borg Collective under the leadership of their brutal, individualistic Queen (Alice Krige).The film has special effects that truly wow, and (yes!) an appropriate use of the Steppenwolf classic Magic Carpet Ride, as well as great performances from newcomers like James Cromwell and Alfre Woodard. First Contact could very well be the best in its class. "},{"Title":"Hands Down, The BEST Action-Sci-Fi Adventure Movie","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First I'll start by pointing out the movies flaws. There's no Milky Way Galaxy visible in any of the space shots. Some of the shots of Earth are missing places. It took the Enterprise only a few hours to get from the Neutral Zone to Earth! The flaws take nothing away from the amazing overall experience. EVERYONE had screen time. The Enterprise looked absolutely beautiful and the ILM special effects ROCKED! I watched the special features on the newest release, and that was the first time ever they used a CGI Enterprise in shots. Even Commander LaForge had a moment when he breaks down to Dr. Cocraine how his will get him his own statue. The shot of the Borg infested Earth as they traveled back in time was awesome as well. It makes you realize that if the Enterprise crew failed, that would be humanities fate. The acting, on all levels, was excellent. Hmmm, that would be a great movie for a 3-D theater don't ya think?! "},{"Title":"Resistance to enjoying this film is futile","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Next to Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan, this is the best of the Trek films. For longtime fans of the Next Generation, this movie was the payoff for all those years of supporting the TV show. We get to see the Enterprise-E in some kick ass action sequences against the Borg. The time travel story actually works well and adds much to the Star Trek cannon. Patrick Stewart shines as the haunted Capt. Picard who must come to terms with the demons (Borg assimilation) from his past. His scene with Alfie Woodard where he makes the emotional statement, The line must be drawn HERE and no further, is one of the most memorable from the film franchise. As in the best of Trek, this movie mixes pathos, drama and humor with its humanity and positive message about mankind's future. Plenty of action keeps the story moving without the dreaded dead spots that some Trek films has suffered with in the past. Also, the Borg Queen was repulsive but yet so erotic that you had to admire Alice Krige for pulling off such an amazing feat. After all, no story really works without having a worthy antagonist. This was a Trek worthy of Roddenberry's vision about the future of humanity. "},{"Title":"Great Star Trek film!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This Star Trek film is very good!Great music by Jerry Goldsmith and spectacular effects!James Cromwell is great and the story itself is a good one.Alice Krige is phenomenal as the Borg Queen and Marina Sirtis is as beautiful as ever.Jonathan Frakes did a good job directing. I recommend Star Trek First Contact to all Star Trek fans! "},{"Title":"The line must be drawn here!","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If not the best film of the series, then First Contact is certainly the best film starring the Next Generation crew. After the dire Generations - the worst movie in the whole franchise - the previous problems have been greatly improved.It's perhaps a sad fact that, no matter how many films the crew appears in, they will never be as popular as the original, certainly on this side of the Atlantic. There's something about the denizens of the Next Generation that are too smug, too anorakky, and far, far too banal. Rather than the identifiable characters of the sixties, this crew is a group of token weirdoes and narcissists.Major exception to this rule is Patrick Stewart, the RSC actor who gets to practically carry this film, a welcome development. Rather odd that the captain with arguably the most depth should have the most shallow crewmembers. Unless you count Voyager of course, and let's face it, who does? Jonathan Frakes, a man who is more valuable behind the camera than in front of it, has a lessened role. So too do the lacking female crew, including a Marina Sirtis who seems to have forgotten she once had a Betazoid accent and now talks in broad Cockney. And it's a testament to the producers' lack of faith in Gates McFadden that they cast Alfre Woodard to act as a counterpoint to Picard. This also highlights how sadly missed Whoopee Goldberg is from this encounter.Largest problem for the series is the need to develop the characters, yet not so much that they distance newer audience members. Thankfully, Data's emotion chip is more or less dropped, while Geordi's high-tech contact lenses are unobtrusive.There are still flaws, of course. The vital exposition for casual viewers isn't dealt out before the first fifty minutes, giving non-fans no clue as to who the Borg are, and what First Contact actually is. Yet all of it - including Picard's absorption into the collective - is explained before the duration is over. The Next Gen's somewhat sanitised, brightly-lit surroundings also lend little towards what could have been an effective horror. Woodard at one point describes them as bionic zombies, and a little more Dawn of the Dead homaging could have gone a long way. That said, the Borg's drilling appendages are genuinely frightening, and their catchphrase - I hope the Cybermen don't have a good lawyer, er, I mean, you will be assimilated - is chilling. The director's nickname of Two Takes Frakes perhaps indicates the level of complacency involved, though he does chalk up a very exciting scene on the saucer of the Enterprise.First Contact follows the basic format of The Wrath of Khan action, action and action. No great concepts, no great turns of plot, no lame comedy moments. This is just one non-stop shoot 'em up, with very nice special effects, achieved on a modest $45 million budget. The script isn't exactly witty, but is above average, and takes in references to Mark Twain and Herman Melville.There's the sense that the film never quite replicates the same excitement or sense of foreboding as the better TV Borg episodes, most notably Q Who? and The Best of Both Worlds. And there's also little to distinguish between this and one double-length episode. Despite all this, First Contact emerges as a very worthwhile action/SF thriller, though roped in to long-established internal continuity, the Star Trek films are unlikely ever to achieve classic status in their own right. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Okay movie, but disappointing","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am a Star Trek fan, and watched every episode of the original series, and many of the episodes of Star Trek The Next Generation.  I did not like the movie much, but if you can't think of anything but Star Trek, you should check out this movie, although you probably already have =).Now, onto the mini-review.  This movie takes place six years after the two-part Next Generation episode The Best of Both Worlds, which actually is similar in length to the movie.  Make sure you see The Best of Both Worlds first, to get a primer on the Borg and to understand most of the things this movie refers to (including the certain assimilation).I think this movie really took away from some of the best parts of Star Trek The Next Generation.  Two examplesData having an emotion chip.  Data was interesting because he did not have emotions, and even though he turned it off part-way through, it still makes his role in the movie less special.The Borg Queen = bad idea.  The Borg are Borg because they are not individual, but rather a collective conciousness.  Having one Borg that controls them just doesn't work.  If you've seen both First Contact and Best of Both Worlds you know what I mean, because in Best of Both Worlds the Borg are just plain neat, and in First Contact they come across differently.Overall, this movie made the Borg less special, Data less special, and even though it reveals a lot about Star Trek history I just don't recommend it. If you don't know much about Star Trek but just want to find out what all this Borg stuff is about, watch Best of Both Worlds instead.  Don't bother with First Contact. "}{"Title":"A solid entry in the Star Trek saga (minor references to characters)","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek has often fallen short of Star Wars in the region of movie magic. Even the strongest entries in the franchise, such as Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan, have been criticized for lackluster special effects and somewhat shoddy animation. The eighth entry, however, breaks with tradition by delivering a polished, professional look combined with a story that, though teetering at times, still manages to convey the classic Star Trek message of hope and understanding.The film has suffered a hit in popularity recently due to some well- renowned reviews, courtesy of RedLetterMedia. While I personally tended to agree with his assessment, watching the movie made me reevaluate some of RLM's criticisms as unfounded or misleading. The story isn't flawless, by no accounts so, but it's most certainly watertight, and it brings the point across very well.Choosing Jonathan Frakes as a director was a wise move. Not only was he efficient in bringing home a good production (allegedly earning the nickname Two-Takes Frakes on set), but his long experience of Star Trek as a cast member on The Next Generation enabled him to produce a film that would go on to please hardcore trekkers and film critics alike. He, alongside fellow Enterprise crew members and guest stars, also do a good job of portraying the various culture clashes as the Enterprise is stranded in the past, its complement feverishly working to save humanity from its direst perils yet.The score, by Jerry and Joel Goldsmith, doesn't disappoint either. It combines the harrowing tune of the Borg with the lighter, cheerful leitmotif of the Enterprise. No complaints there.Overall, the movie probably deserve 8.5-9/10, but I rate it higher to bring the average up to where it belongs. "},{"Title":"The only great film from the TNG and in fact, the only good one","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek First Contact is widely considered to be 'The Wrath of Khan' of the New Generations films and rightly so. This film is a truly great film and to consider how it bounced back after 'Star Trek Generations' is beyond me.Immediately into the film, we are told that Captain Picard, played by Patrick Stewart, was once assimilated by the Borg. News then breaks that a new Borg is prepared to attack Earth and the crew decide to disobey the orders of the Enterprise, with the android Data saying To hell with our orders! and so the Enterprise decide to help out a fleet that is attacked by the Borg. After the battle comes to an abrupt end, the Enterprise realize that the Borg has indeed used time travel to arrive at the day before aliens make first contact with Earth and must travel back in time to stop this from happening, which involves getting the creator of the Warp drive to activate it.I was extremely hesitant and afraid to watch this film, realizing how bad 'Generations' was. I could not take the pain of watching another bad Trek film, even when critics had stated it to be one of the best, I did not believe it! Thankfully, this is indeed one of the best and I personally rank it the second best. This opinion is subject to change once I do get to see JJ Abram's 2009 reboot but Star Trek First Contact is an extremely interesting film with a far better written characters and story.Think back to 'Generations' when then android Data was simply making horrible jokes about an emotion chip that helps him understand jokes that were said years ago. Here, he is a far more interesting character and despite a few corny moments, Data is one of the highlights of the film. Take a look back at the villain in 'Generations' whose goal was to somehow travel back into the Nexus. Here, the villain is the Borg, possibly the coolest villain. First Contact also has the best action sequences in the series, up to date, and with a budget of $48 million, the film included great set pieces, possibly the best special effects up til now and was a commercial success, considering it made approximately 3 times its overall budget in the Box Office.The 'Star Trek' franchise suffers from often poor special effects, often tedious moments and corny dialogue that are only very limited in 'Wrath of Khan' and 'First Contact' The Borg were extremely interesting and intense villains and the Klingon Worf was extremely well done in the film. All the characters that were laughable in the previous entry to the Trek franchise have been re-done in a far more interesting way. The story itself is the best of the franchise and the visual effects and set piece have never looked better. A scene that stands out when referring to great set pieces for its time is the scene where Picard, Worf and the other officer are standing atop the Enterprise and attempting to thwart the plans of the Borg.Something interesting about this film is the direction they took with Data, whose motivations were clear to be more human despite being a mechanical android. I love how the Borg gave him human skin and tried making him more human. That stuff worked very well in the film and gave another dimension to Data- something which 'Generations' utterly failed at.'Star Trek First Contact' is most definitely superior to 'Generations' and is the true introduction to the New Generations series. An extremely interesting premise is backed up by fantastic writing and directing, great action sequences and fantastic special effects. Quite possibly the best Trek film, along with 'Wrath of Khan' and a true surprise. Overall, this is one of the great Sci-Fi films. "},{"Title":"Formulaic sci-fi","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For some reason that I cannot understand this substandard pot-boiler has a high reputation among fans. Although it is lacking in every depart, its real crime is the badness of its characterisation. Virtually everyone here acts out of character. Deanna Troy appears drunk in a leaden and embarrassing 'comedy' scene; the usually calm, assured Picard becomes an Ahab-like obsessive willing to sacrifice his own crew for revenge; Worf utters the absurd assimilate this line worthy of a cheap 80s cop film. Possibly worst of all, even worse than seeing Picard gun down his own men, is the borg, a complex entity whose mythology has been established over the years, being reduced to a hive run by a Cruella Deville-like queen. Nor are the action scenes much to write home about. Very average. "},{"Title":"A Sequel and a Prequel at the Same Time","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Borg have returned and this time they're seriously determined to stop the Federation. So determined, in fact, they travel back in time to when Earth made first contact with the Vulcans, where the Borg hope to destroy the first warp drive and take over (assimilate) all of humanity. Picard, who had been ordered to stand down, doesn't accept this and follows the enemy with his crew in tow.I hate to say it, but this is one of the more pointless Trek films. I loved The Next Generation and I'd watch a film with the cast no matter how awful or stupid it was. So I enjoyed this one, as well. But generally speaking, it is just full of questionable situations and seemed more like a desire to cash in than any serious attempt to provide the fans with something substantial.After the series ended and we had Generations, the time travel idea is really played out. The only reason to add it here is to tell a story about how man met Vulcans. But it's really better to do this in a prequel or something. Adding Riker and Troi to a crucial moment in history just seems to cheapen it for me. Why can't it happen without such big names involved? And I didn't care for the character of the the warp drive inventor (I love James Cromwell, but this was not a great role). And the Steppenwolf? Over a century later? Very out of sync with the series.The Borg revisionism was questionable, too. We have the Borg Queen inserted into the Locutus story, which she wasn't in originally. Her character in general is interesting but takes away from the concept of the Borg race. At least for me it does. The Borg, aside from Q, are probably the most interesting species on The Next Generation but I didn't think their presentation here was true to their being.Lastly, I was mixed on how to feel about Data being made more human. I understand we have to continue down the path of making him more and more like a human (adding knowledge first, then emotions and now pain). But it seemed so forced. Each film in the series has'a subplot of Data getting more human. Why so fast? On the show, it slowly progressed over years and years and then the movies came and made it a constant part of the story.After these complaints, you'd think I hated the movie, but I don't. I liked it quite a bit, and as I said I'm always ready to see the crew together again. I just got the impression this was a weak film. Generations was superior, as were many of the episodes. And when a television show is better than its movie, that's not really saying much for the film. It just seemed to be not in the spirit of the show. But if you like Next Generation (and I'm assume you do), you'll have to see this at some point. You probably already have. "},{"Title":"It's hard to mess up a Borg story... guess what? They did.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Next Generation franchise has been mired in controversy since its inception, and many regard it as little more than a cash cow for Paramount. True or not, it has a much lower success-to-failure ratio than the original series, for a number of reasons.The first reason is that the budget was very tight on the original series, and even on the films, effects were not advanced enough to remove limitations. This forced the creators into a position where they simply had to be creative, and while they had their share of plot problems or bad acting, they were also effective enough to hold the interest of non-fans.The same cannot be said of TNG. In TNG, the exact opposite problem exists. There is virtually limitless money for effects, but often we wind up with millions of dollars worth of effects in search of a decent plot. First Contact is a prime example. The filmmaking no-nos come thick and fast here.First, when an event occurs in film, you're supposed to show the audience, not tell them. A confrontation between the 24th century Federation and the Borg is something that fans as well as some non-fans would pay good money to see. Instead, we hear about it while we get some weird expressions from the Enterprise crew. You can stop reading now if you haven't seen it yet and care about the plot, by the way. When the Borg finally lose the battle, they eject a kind of capsule that travels back in time to when humanity first met the Vulcans, in an attempt to prevent this from taking place.The amount of times one should refer to time travel in a show that does not have it as a central theme is zero. Whereas films like Terminator 2 or Star Trek IV managed to keep the viewer from thinking about the plot holes it creates, First Contact does nothing to attempt this. Every plot hole is so gaping that it makes one wonder what the writer was thinking.The Borg somehow infest the Enterprise. Okay, maybe I can accept that if they show how the Borg accomplish this. Telling us they've infested the ship without showing them actually getting on the ship in the first place is wrong. But that's nothing compared to showing the Borg standing outside in the vacuum of space, trying to contact their homeworld. The Borg are cybernetic organisms, and cybernetic organisms are not immune from the vacuum. Pure robots are, but not hybrids of robot and flesh. That the writer didn't even attempt to address this problem shows the laziness that has crept into the franchise since the death of Gene Roddenberry.Another big plot problem is all the time spent trying to steer the 21st-Century scientist towards launching his ship and attracting the attention of the Vulcans. The problem is that the Enterprise crew tell him so much about his future, and make him so uncomfortable in the process, that it soon becomes a wonder he succeeded at all. Films like Back To The Future, or television series like Doctor Who, said it best. Noone should interfere too much with the past, and nobody should know too much about their future. The plot problem of how to fix the past that the Borg have damaged would have been far more interesting if the Star Trek writing team had stopped using Plot Crowbars for ten seconds and had a creative think about what they are doing.There is, however, one highlight that stops the film from being a total write-off. The moment when the Vulcans land and make contact is an excellent insight into the Trek universe, and serves as a great dramatic moment. The brief moments of Vulcans and humans initially bonding and learning about one another makes the film worth the price of admission by itself, even if it does have a certain kind of problem of its own.All in all, I'd rate this film as a 5 out of ten. It really needed another few months in the revision stage, and could have done with being ten minutes longer to close up a few plot holes. It's worth a rental, but I wouldn't go much further than that. "},{"Title":"Good entry in the long-running series has the familiar characters battling the Borgs and time-traveling  back  to Earth","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It is the 24th century ,it is the rebirth of a saga, the start of a new scenario when Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) and his crew (Brent Spiner as Data , LeVar Burton as Geordi , Michael Dorn as Worf , Gates McFadden as Beverly , Marina Sirtis as Troy) pursue the Borg (into the Borg Sphere, the Cube's smaller counterpart, makes its first on-screen appearance) , a race of part humanoid, part machine , beings face the Federation in what would be the biggest battle of all time , with domination their goal . Enterprise chases a group of Borgs and enters a time distortion created by the Borg . They end up in the mid-21st century in order to save the Earth of the future and from Borg . Their only chance of stopping the Borg from assimilating Earth is to help cockeyed scientific named Zefram Cochrane (James Cromwell) make his famous first faster-than-light travel to the stars and fulfills his role in history , as part of crew (Jonathan Frakes's movie direction debut , best known as Riker) land and carry out the plans . As Picard and his crew go back in time to stop them from preventing Earth from initiating first contact with alien life . Meanwhile , Captain Picard is transformed into a character Moby Dick's Captain Ahab¨ for his obsession with destroying the Borg, as Ahab was obsessed with killing the white whale ; but also Picard even has a dalliance with one of the women (Alfre Woodward) there and facing a villain who is an evil She-Borg queen (Alice Krige) .This epic story is concentrated on characters as well as thrill-packed action and special effects although there're numerous of those too . The movie has action , tension , comedy , emotion , suspense and sensational spacial scenarios like is customary development of the franchise whose series buffs will have no complains . Spectacular, exciting , fast-paced , thrilling this is the description of this new outing of Star Trek , following two concurrent threads . Film that reinvents the saga through a perfect pulse narrative that does not give a second of rest to the spectator who is trapped for two hours approx. in a genuine visual spectacle . Idealism , humor , humanity , several agreeable characters and trademark effects abound and will please the enthusiasts such as the neophyte . The top-notch acting convinces , especially the nasty but seductive Borg , Alice Krige , in a super-villain role , while other players also make a nice work as James Cromwell and Alfre Woodward . The stirring final amazing the spectator , in which the moving and spectacular scenes create a perfect union that terminates with an ending that leaves you stuck in the armchair facing the formidable spectacle as a privileged witness . Magnificent special effects by ILM (George Lucas' Indutrial Light Magic) whose animators created several new classes of Federation ships for the huge CGI animation sequence against the Borg . Exceptional soundtrack by Jerry Goldsmith , he composes an impressive musical accompaniment to the film and helped by his son , the recently deceased Joel Goldsmith . Furthermore a colorful and evocative cinematography by Matthew F Leonetti . Efficient direction by Jonathan Frakes, the notorious Star Trek's commandant Riker . At the end of filming, actor/director Jonathan Frakes got the nickname Two takes Frakes because of the efficiency of his style .He's an expert filmmaker of Sci-Fi genre and TV episodes  ¨Star Trek¨, ¨Roswell¨ ,¨Masters of science fiction¨, ¨The Librarian¨ , ¨Twilight zone¨ , among them and occasionally for Cinema such as ¨Clockstoppers¨ , ¨ Thunderbirds¨ and ¨Star Trek Insurrection¨. Suitable for family viewing , it's an entertaining adventure which young and old men will enjoy . Fans of the series will find very bemusing and fun . It is amusing to watch , reliably entertaining for fans and Trekkies are sure to love it , resulting to be one of the best science-fiction follow-up of all time . Rating  Better than average . Well worth watching , essential and indispensable seeing for Trekkies . "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Read Brief Review","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have to start off by saying, that I am a Startrek buff. I LOVE everything there is to do with Startrek, and have viewed every episode of TNG and DS9 ever aired. I have also seen every Startrek movie created, and could name at least 50 people that resided on the Enterprise during TNG (not necessarily the entire show, some moved on, died, etc.).I feel that this was probably tied for the best Startrek movie ever created. I feel that First Contact and Generations are the best two ever created. This movie combines a lot of action, as well as realistic predicament, and very realistic scenarios. This certainly fit into the storyline as plausible, and never once made you ask how did this happen.The short-version of this review is that the film was extremely successful, and very good quality. It had good acting, a great storyline, and pretty good special effects. It also had some nice upgrades to ship and uniforms that look absolutely fabulous, that almost make me want to wear one all the time! Great movie for Startrek and Scifi fans. This movie would be a good movie for any Scifi fan, with an easy storyline to follow, that doesn't require much previous TNG knowledge to follow.Below is a long, drawn out commentary. If you haven't seen the movie yet, don't read further. I have worked hard to keep it spoiler free, and have made notations on most of my information, of how it was already available from the series, so that it is not considered spoiler material. Nonetheless, if you haven't seen it, view it, and then read my opinion, and see what you think first.***Below might contain references to the movie, but they are not anywhere close to spoilers. Just the same, wanted to give fair warning.The storyline is that the Borg invade the Federation, and attack Earth. They go back in time, to perform a mission. (This much was stated on the back of the cover, so no spoilers there.) I often wondered, back when TNG was on the air, if the Borg would try and do this during the series. It was very plausible, because we know the power of the Borg, and we know that we would be no match for them. The only thing that could have given us an advantage, would have been Captain Picard, due to his experience with being assimilated during the series. Also, we already knew that time travel was possible, and that the Borg were experimenting with it. So, that does not leave us with any jumps in logic.The movie was well written, acted, and directed. First off, tip of the hats to the costume and set designers. I LOVED the new uniforms, and thought that they were certainly much better looking than standard red, yellow, and blue ones from the show. Also, the new ship looked very realistic (again, we knew the Enterprise D was destroyed, so it only made sense to have a new ship built, and included in the movie). The actors put a lot of hard work into it, and it shows. I especially want to say good job to Brent Spiner, as he did an excellent job on data, acting the part, which you will understand once you watch the movie. Also, worth mentioning was the actor that played Zephram Cochran (I can't remember the name off of the top of my head). He performed well, made the character seem very realistic for the personality portrayed. Another comment on the characters would have to be about Lily. I feel that the first part of the character, when she has the little fainting spell, was scripted and acted very well, but the script has her dealing with her situation, a lot better than she should have. Even a strong character would have been a bit more reluctant to do what she did. I think that she took it a bit too well, but that is certainly not a major thing, and it's only my opinion.I would like to also say that the special effects were pretty good, especially for the resources that they used.***Random Knowledge Tidbit The green plate used on assimilation tables in all of the Borg ships during TNG, were actually store-bought electric lamps. They were the same as the ones that you can buy in the store, that are sensitive to touch, sound, etc. These are the ones that pulse out electricity, similar to the electric balls that have flowing strands of electricity touching the globe, but on a flat plate instead. "},{"Title":"First Contact; a quirky, odd, and sometimes weak best installment","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While this is not as solid as its predecessors, this is the first of the series in which the Next Generation attempts to stand on its own. After the shaky start that was Generations, this looks great in comparison.Based on several episodes of the Next Generation television series in which Piccard was assimilated by the Borg, and fought his way free. You are not given the benefit of this knowledge or experience in this installment. They elude to it, and even mention it, but they fail to discuss it which in my opinion is a necessity for you to get a good bead on the events and Piccard's passions concerning the Borg.In the opening scene, they have DATA stealing Spock's lines and that really just did not sit well with me. It was a cheap, slip-shod attempt to endear him to the fans of the old series in Spock's place; a place, which I may add, that he will never in a million years be able to fill. I can appreciate his character for what it is, but not as a replacement for any of the original crew members, let alone Spock.And...Enterprise E? What happened to C and D? It was B which was destroyed in 7 (Generations). So...what happened? Did someone just forget the alphabet? Or did they not care enough about continuity to bother with it?Above that, the Borg have found a way to create a rip in time, in order to go back to 20th century Earth, assimilate the planet, and prevent the human race from achieving warp speed; an event which effectuates mankind's first contact with the Vulcan race, sent to welcome humans into the group of beings who heretofore have not enjoyed the capacity for interstellar travel.Meanwhile, the Borg have infested the Enterprise and are in the process of assimilating Star Fleet's top crew; Jordi La Forge has a new set of eyes which are beautifully and creatively designed; we learn a lot about the functionality of the holodeck, the Borg, and the way some features work aboard the Enterprise E; DATA is given human skin by the Borg (and then given something else which is much more effective in controlling even the mind of a machine); the inventor of the warp drive takes off running for the hills after being overwhelmed by the Enterprise crew's hero worship and has to be captured and returned to the project; the Borg devise a way to send for reinforcements after their ship is destroyed; and Dr. Crusher kidnaps the warp drive project head in an attempt to save her life.All in all, the story itself is well written, and the acting on behalf of the thespians is good, solid and even rousing. There are some holes, as I have pointed out, but for the most part, the story works and is a deserving addition (and perhaps the best NG installment) to this franchise.It rates an 8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"good action movie - not a good Next Gen movie","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Let's face it Picard's generation aren't made for the action-smash movie set. They don't fit with it. Kirk and company were made for brash brawling and gunning down Khan and the Klingons, which made for great movies that were true to the original series; Picard's series dwelt on the more cerebral affairs of diplomacy, temporal paradoxes and altered realities. The higher-concept stuff of Star Trek The Next Generation doesn't feel right squished into a movie setting, where flashy explosions and high energy levels are expected. First Contact is a good action/sci-fi flick - but it takes one of TNG's better sci-fi concepts and trashes it in the name of marketability.Yes, First Contact has great action sequences - the zero-g fight, the weird radioactive gas thing in the end, even the delightfully kitchy holodek mobster fight. The plot on earth works wonders simply because of James Cromwell's portrayal of Zephram Cochrane - his character and his story are compelling. And Picard's Ahab Syndrome was pretty sweet too.The problem in this movie is the Borg - and more specifically, with the introduction of a Borg Queen. The reason why the Borg are so frightening in the Next Generation TV series was not merely because they were powerful, but because they were so incredibly alien they were a race in which no individuals exist. The Borg are not a hive of drones who are ruled by a queen; they are a single mind spread throughout billions upon billions of bodies. A single Borg is not akin to a drone in a hive, which has an individual nature but which is oppressed in a rigid hierarchy; rather, it is akin to a cell in an organism - it has no free, meaningful, or distinct existence beyond the larger body. There is no head or ruler of the Borg, any more than there is a single cell in your body that governs what you do. What makes the Borg's outlook on the rest of the universe so disturbing is that they cannot comprehend individuality, and thus individual lives are utterly insignificant to them... they take life without compunction because to the Borg, they aren't really taking lives - killing a human is like scraping a cell off someone's skin, an inconsequential act. The Borg are a truly alien species with a completely alien mindset - a rare gem in mainstream sci-fi.But First Contact gives them a Queen who struts around and acts for all the world like a nasty human in some expensive makeup. She exchanges quips with Picard. She drips sexual innuendo over Data. She acts more like a James Bond temptress than a member of an alien cybernetic overmind. It completely demystifies them, makes them more human, when what made them so compelling is that they are so completely inhuman.Without the Borg Queen, this movie would have perhaps been less approachable to casual moviegoers - after all, most expect their villains to have a face they can react to, and the Borg are nothing if not faceless - but it would have kept the Borg at their chilling and pure best. Instead, First Contact waters down Next Generation's brilliance and replaces it with some smirking one-liners and a lot of stuff that gets blown up.6/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty fun with cool effects but also a bit annoying","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I still don't know much about Star Trek but now I've seen several of the movies. This seems to be one of the most popular ones. I did enjoy a lot of the visuals and the general plot. Patrick Stewart is very cool and most of the characters are reasonably interesting. Data in particular because he bridges man and machine. He seems to be the sort-of Spock replacement. He is so obsessed with learning more about human emotions and never understands them and yet he seems so kind and curious and balanced himself.I have to say, I found the Borg to be quite stupid. They're so concerned with being some kind of perfect or superior race but they're ugly and slow, they even let their adversaries walk right past them. Plus, the whole idea of assimilating other species into yours without losing anything is pretty dumb. Of course you're losing something! You can't just magically strap on foreign DNA and hope that everything grows and adds. But I suppose that's the point, that they're flawed in their logic and must therefore be stopped.I didn't like the James Cochran parts very much. They were too dull and slow. A drunkard isn't appealing as any kind of character really. Why spend so much of a sci-fi movie with humans in crappy clothing talking and wasting time? I did find the whole concept of first contact interesting though. They happen to be witnessing a really significant event in human history. There is an aura about the place and time that the characters seem to feel which then makes you feel the same way. And it's important to the plot, of course.The black lady I found very annoying for most of the movie. She doesn't know anything but she's so bossy and determined. What happened to thinking or opening your eyes to a new world? I find those kinds of artificial conflicts very frustrating. For example, the way she gets all upset and angry before finally trusting Picard much later. Do we really need to go through all that? Why is she so hostile? Can't we focus on the main adversary in the film? The cool, mysterious, futuristic parts?Picard's inner struggle played out nicely. There are some interesting insights into the difference between revenge and doing the right thing. The ambiguity. It's much more exciting when you actually feel unsure as to how things are going to turn out. There's a lot at stake and it's interesting to see how characters behave under that pressure. Do they snap? Work together? Fight with each-other? Become really courageous and do something crazy?I mainly enjoyed this movie for the colours, special effects, tension, action scenes, music, strategy and sense of impending doom. I'm not a Trekkie yet but I would certainly recall this movie as being pretty cool and quite entertaining. "}{"Title":"A Great Contribution to Next Generation's Set.","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While I give this a review of seven, in plain words that means 'good'.As a contribution to theatre, the crew of Next Generation is continuingly pleasing. As a contribution to Film and Sci-Fi in total, alright. Some parts were annoying. Such as when Data quickly generated a fractal encryption that the Borg cannot break to protect the computer, and which becomes a rather pivotal concept to the latter events that add plot twist to the film. I find it rather difficult to believe that the collective power of the friggin Borg cannot compute the solution to a problem a single android generates in under five seconds, regardless if it's Data. Why fractals? Do the Borg not understand how fractals act so that their hopeless? Not likely I say, and so poorly written. That in addition to when enterprise goes back in time. Ill admit, the play does have some unexpectedness which was well done. There was something missing though, that I cannot quite put a finger on. Maybe someone else will do better.The movie was a satisfying watch or someone who really just finished watching all 7 seasons of Next Generation, again. I feel just fine with the casting, and it was cool seeing Enterprise-E. The film does not add such great moments to film that I would consider it one of my favourites, and while Star Trek sure is Sci-Fi, I find it difficult for me to add it to what one call 'classic'. Although in truth, I've never liked much else either... "},{"Title":"The Best Next Generation Star Trek Movie.","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First Contact and Wrath of Khan are easily the two best Star Trek movies. The best movies just happen to be sequels of their respected shows. These are easily better than these new reboots with Chris Pine. Sure they're enjoyable, but this is real Star Trek! Even if I wasn't a fanatic, I would still find the reboots to be much inferior to all the original Star Trek movies. Is this better than Wrath of Khan? That is debatable. If not better than Wrath of Khan, then slightly behind it. I'm on the fence with this, they are both equal to me.First Contact focuses on revenge and time travel, two generic themes that are played about perfectly. The Borg return and assimilate Earth by altering the past--the day before mankind's first contact with aliens. Captain Picard (Stewart) is dead-set on destroying the Borg by any means after he himself was assimilated in an earlier episode of the series. Riker, Geordi and Troi (Frakes, Burton, Sirtis) stay on Earth to help an engineer (Cromwell) follow through with his plans of being the first to create a spaceship that can travel faster than the stars while keeping an eye out for any Borg that may come to Earth. The bits of the Enterprise on Earth is nice and funny. Cromwell is a drunk who can't relate to the people of the future. Meanwhile on the enterprise, the Borg try to assimilate it, succeeding in some moments. The Borg is dark and freaky looking, making their takeover on the Enterprise somewhat modern-day Gothic. It is very hellacious and violent, but a ton of fun. When they realize the ship must be destroyed, Picard wants to follow through with the destruction of the Borg. Picard mirrors Captain Ahab from Moby Dick, and he would play the character just two years later. The Borg have even kidnapped Data (Spiner) and are doing a good job in making him one of their own. The Enterprise bears almost no chance of defeating the Borg. Near impossible victories are what I love. Of course the good guys win, but it's very exciting to see how they do it. "},{"Title":"A Great Character Study of Picard... With One Huge Flaw","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I liked First Contact instantly.I had always hoped that someone would do the Zefram Cochrane story, and this caught me by surprise. I thought the main plot was particularly well-done, and deserves a 9. Cromwell did an outstanding job of portraying Cochrane as just a regular guy who had a brilliant idea, and didn't want to be famous, or any kind of hero. I liked that little twist on Star Trek history.Unfortunately, the whole Borg subplot just detracted from the Cochrane story. I would have happily settled for a shorter movie or any other excuse for the Enterprise to travel into the past. Borg is just Old and Worn Out. It is now, and it was in 1996. It almost ruined the movie for me.A couple of particularly low points1) Picard calls Worf a Coward -- Totally out-of-character. I can't imagine the Picard character ever doing that, Borg or not.2) The Holodeck and Dixon Hill -- Worn Out, totally self-serving, and completely unnecessary.However, the movie did turn out O.K., with a few great lines and scenes.1) Lily Borg? Sounds Swedish.2) Lily It's my first Ray Gun.3) Data Resistance... Is Futile! (probably the best line Brent Spiner ever had in Star Trek... delivered perfectly -- I guess the re-hash of the Borg story line had a purpose, after all)4) Troi He wouldn't even talk to me unless I had a drink with him. And then, it took three shots of something called 'tequila' just to find out that he was the one we're looking for. And I've spent the last twenty minutes trying to keep his hands off me. So don't go criticizing my counseling techniques. (probably the best line Marina Sirtis ever had in Star Trek) "},{"Title":"Borg great villains","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The new crew takes on the great villain of the new era, the Borg. The Borg have sent one cube and the Federation is gathering a force. On the other hand, the Enterprise is told to patrol the neutral zone with the Romulans. Starfleet Command doesn't trust Captain Jean-Luc Picard. When the battle goes badly, Picard disobeys orders and returns to earth. The Borg cube is destroyed but a small ship escapes. The small ship travels back in time changing the present and the Enterprise follows them to repair the damage to the past. They travel to 2063 when Zefram Cochrane (James Cromwell) is about to make first contact.A working knowledge of the Star Trek world is beneficial. It's a good thing that the filmmakers have figured out that a movie requires the greatest villains and the Borg is definitely one of the most compelling. It has a few laughs at the right time. It touches some profound literary concepts like Moby Dick. The space walk combat is cool. Jonathan Frakes takes the directing helm and he does a reasonable job. The story is the star here. "},{"Title":"The best 'Next Generation' trek film, by far","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Piccard and his crew didn't get as much (big) screen time as Kirk, so there's not that many other of his movies to compare First Contact to. However, it is definitely the best of all the next generation's filmic outings.Possibly its greatest strength is that it can be watched by people with no prior knowledge of Star Trek lore. It's about a race of (effectively) space zombies, known as 'the Borg' who travel back in time to take over Earth. Therefore Piccard and co must follow them back and teach 'em not to mess with us earthlings.What you have here is a fun, sci-fi adventure with plenty of action and space aliens. If you know Star Trek, you'll probably already have seen this one. However, my challenge goes out to all those out there who consider 'Trek' to be the domain of spotty nerds in their mothers' basements - if you're in any way interested in sci-fi, try this one out with an open mind, you may get a pleasant surprise.Note I do happen to live in my mother's basement, but I don't speak Klingon. "},{"Title":"The Next Generation comes into its own","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Typically regarded by casual and hardcore fans alike as the best of the 'Next Generation' films (and one of the best 'Star Trek' films overall), and I'm certainly inclined to agree.In true 'Trek' fashion, time travel is used as casually as a drive down to the corner store, and there are many fissures on the corners of its logic, but the Borg and their Queen make for a strong villain, humor and drama are deftly mixed, with each hitting the mark more often than not, and it's excellently paced.Though it lacks the theatricality of the best of the Original Series films like 'Wrath of Khan', 'First Contact' is a well made and thoroughly entertaining chapter in the adventures of Jean Luc Picard and his crew. "},{"Title":"Star Trek First Contact","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Second film (or sequel?) for the next generation crew and this time there is no hint of the classic crew what so ever, its all new now baby.So this next Trek rumble is a lot more straight forward plot wise and probably has the most action seen for awhile. Quite simply the Borg are on the rampage and out to assimilate pretty much everyone they can, namely all of Starfleet. This goes a little pear shaped for them so they jump through time to assimilate the entire Earth...the naughty rascals. Is time travel a regular function for everyone in the Trek universe? handy if so.I liked this film for the simplicity of everything and the fact you get some basic action mixed with some genuine tension along with the insecurity of not knowing what may happen, seeing as its the Borg. Bottom line there are plenty of deaths or assimilation's (close enough), a decent baddie, some good back story to Earth's future and plenty of phaser action. Its not exactly a top notch sci-fi action flick lets be honest here, this is no Die Hard in space. Visually most things still have that TV show quality only on a slightly grander scale. Everything looks a bit plastic amongst the obvious plastic sets.Effects again are more CGI based than models unfortunately. The space battle against the big Borg cube ship thing at the start actually looks like a video game sequence, obvious CGI without weight or depth. I know this is still only 96 but geez you'd think they could do better, compare this to Star Wars! The deadly Borg look quite decent with some good facial makeup but their cyborg body armour, weapons and general body attachments do look pretty rubbery and plastic.I really don't know who decided to put silly little flashing lights all over the shop, it just makes everything look so childish and fake. Data again suffers with this indignity, when his android under layers are revealed it just appears to be bare grey plastic with stupid flashing fairy lights all over, so very crap looking.As for the bad guys I do like them, space zombies if you will, lets face it that's what they are really. Part robotic and part organic space zombies from the planet Romero. I do like the Borg as they do actually come across as creepy plus they manage to add real tension and dread to a Star Trek film. Can't really over look the fact they are a mixture of various ideas from various other sci-fi/horror films all pieced together ('Hellraiser' springs to mind). Plus the fact that they transform whole areas into cold dead robotic hives that visually appear the same as the Borg themselves kinda copies ideas used in 'Aliens' but hey ho.Apart from that the Borg are quite a cool creation and do actually add a genuine threat to the Star Trek universe. Yet at the same time they kinda don't fit in the Trek universe, they're almost too cold, calculated and merciless for the family friendly franchise. Not sure I ever really liked the design of their ship (I guess its a ship), why is it merely a large cube? what's the deal with that? On a final note why are they called Borg? are they Swedish?The Borg queen is a nice touch to the faceless enemy that does come across as an interesting character, not just a cyborg on auto pilot. She also has some really good prosthetic makeup on the face and chest regions, looks that bit more realistic than the other drones.A definite improvement over the last rather dull film, a basic story which is more savage and quite dark in places, although not too extreme of course. I did notice this is another film where actually having some knowledge of a previous TV episode/s is slightly required. They got away with it for 'Star Trek II' and I believe they got away with it for this film also, but seeing that particular episode would appear to help when watching this film.6/10 "},{"Title":"The Wrath of Ahab....","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ***Warning! Spoilers contained within***After successfully bringing Picard (Patrick Stewart) to the center seat in Star Trek Generations (1994), We are immediately given what is still considered today to be the best film of that franchise Star Trek First Contact.The entire crew is reassembled aboard the new Sovereign class Enterprise (NCC-1701-E),Including Lt. Hawk (Neal McDonough).The Borg are back, and Capt. Picard is understandably miffed. After handing Starfleet their hat in combat Picard disobeys direct orders and swiftly defeats the Borg. Except of course, for the one Sphere that travels back in time to completely alter the history of Earth. Watching Picard chase down his nemesis is entertaining.The script is a simple rabbit and the actors chase it with enthusiasm. Jonathan Frakes (Falcon Crest, Clockstoppers)Masterfully directs his debut big screen campaign in Star Trek.A supporting cast out of this galaxy , Such as James Cromwell (Cochran),Alfrie Woodard (Lily) and Alice Krige as the evil Borg Queen , carry the show well. Plenty of regulars like Troi (Marina Sirtis), are on screen as well. Nothing but the best of this world.Four stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"One of the best Star Trek movie","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek movies have been a hit or miss proposition in terms of quality (General opinion being that even numbered ones are better than the odd numbered ones), and true to form, this gem of Star Trek movie falls on an even number.Star Trek First Contact in my opinion is one of the best Star Trek movie made. The CG scenes are beautiful, and Enterprise never looked better on screen. Story had meat to it as it took on first contact - actually the first contact took place between the future humans and the 21st century humans before the Vulcans came. So there were two first contacts in this movie. The other half is the deep contact with the Borg queen. There are lot of points of interest in this movie, that makes this one of the best Star Trek movie. The down side is the spotty directing by Jonathan Frakes , and shoddy acting by James Cromwell as Zefrem Cochrane. There seems to be no connection between this character and the character that appeared in Star Trek TOS. Over humanizing of Cochrane didn't work in my opinion, and took away the believability that he was the genius that he was supposed to be. The camp that people lived in also had WTF factor to it. People living like native Americans from 18th century would be difficult to believe they'd be working on a warp technology, or that Cochrane would be doing it for money. Who would have the money to buy his technology in a decimated world ?So, there were some spottiness to the story, and production, but overall the movie had the feel of Star Trek to the story which makes this my favorite Star Trek movies. "},{"Title":"Lets jump off the racist and nitpicking bandwagon for a second","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am an avid Trek fan and had high hopes for the movie. After seeing all the bad reviews, I was a bit sadden but still tried to keep an open mind. I definitely can see why this movie can suck but I didn't think it was that bad.Acting was obviously not that great but it didn't ruin the movie for me. Added with the less than spectacular dialogue and script, I can see why it is a shoe-in for the worst movie ever award. Everyone on the cast could have used an acting coach. The dialogue didn't flow and often time feels out of place. The biggest issue I think for this movie would be the script/story.As a fan that watched the cartoon, I knew what was going to happen. This movie isn't even two hours and it tried to fit months(or hours depending how you look at it) of story telling into 1hr and 43mins. The story was so rushed to the point where you can't immerse yourself into the world. I think Roddenson's biggest mistake is changing things that needn't be changed.There's a lot of things I like about this movie. I like the depiction of all the races even with the minor changes(new ridge on the brow, etc). I felt blending was adequate in the movie and enjoyed the action sequences though I was disappointed for no creature at the end. I like how they tried to keep the lightheartedness of Data and should have done more of that. I liked how the flashbacks were done as I didn't feel to distracted by it. The movie should really have been 45mins longer to adequately give it the necessary buildup and connections.I'm not going to say this was a great movie but it kept me entertained enough. People with race concerns need to take a step back. The movie can't be a complete adaptation. Don't ignore that fact that there's more shades of skin color in this movie than anything else out right now.Final verdict the movie isn't great but still good enough to entertain. If you're an Avatar fan, don't nitpick and you will enjoy yourself. "}{"Title":"Best of Star Trek","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is by far the best of the Trek films, I think. The chemistry of the regulars has never been better, thanks to Frakes' fast-paced directing, and the addition of Alice Krige as the strangely seductive Borg Queen and Alfre Woodard as Zefram Cochrane's significant other (and a perfect foil for Picard -- who else can hold their own against Stewart?) just added to my pleasure. This is the secret to successful Trek films, a wonderful ensemble where Shatner's ego, Stewart's Shakespearian angst, and Mulgrew's channelling of Xena (let's forget about poor Scott Bakula) are perfectly balanced by Spock's emotional remoteness, Worf's leonine courage and 7 of 9's (or, as basement dwellers everywhere called her, 36 of D) fragility. It really isn't hard to make a decent movie when all the elements are in place. Everyone here is a journeyman, not an acteur or auteur. Good script, solid acting, competent but unflashy directing. First Contact has it all, and the Trek franchise has never had a better enemy than the Borg, especially these Borg, since we can see their genesis from assimilated Entreprise personnel, and Krige actually makes a solid case that the Borg may be a superior species. Watch for a small role by Robert Picardo, The Doctor (Emergency Medical Hologram) in Voyager. RIP, Star Trek, at least you gave us this one little jewel. "},{"Title":"Return to form","Date":"4 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When an alien force attempts to invade Earth, they travel back to the 21st century, pursued by the Enterprise. The plan appears to be to prevent first contact, meaning, the first time creatures from outer space directly revealed themselves to us and it could be proved. If this did not happen, our planet would be easy for them to take. And that's not all. It's no ordinary species we're up against. The Borg have returned(if you don't know what that means, don't jump directly to this, *watch Next Gen to find out*)! This time, they get a Queen(portrayed sensually and impeccably by Krige), and while that is arguably going against the idea of no individuality, it gives them more to work with, and they *deliver*. We get fantastic character moments; the focus remains on Picard(who pulls a Captain Ahab... and is a bit of an action hero) and Data(could this mix of synthetic and organic be the answer to his wish to become human?), but they do very interesting things with them. The acting is spot-on for most concerned, including the delightful cameos(I won't spoil them for you). This can be pretty funny, if also sometimes silly. The writing is marvelous. This is well-paced, it never loses your attention. It is a proper movie, not an episode stretched to feature length; the stakes are high, and this has plenty of tension, cool battles and exciting sequences. All of the FX are great, not only the CGI courtesy of ILM. As when he directed TNG, we can tell that Frakes knows what he's doing. There is a bit of disturbing content and mild violence in this. The DVD comes with a trailer and a teaser. I recommend this to any Star Trek fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Truly one of the best of 1996","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After I've seen Star Trek from 2009, I decide to get Star Trek First Contact at FYE for 5 dollars (pretty good price). It's absolutely stunning and totally amazing.It stars Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes (also directed), Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Gates McFadden, Marina Sirtis, Alice Krige, Alfre Woodward, James Cromwell, etc.The time is the 24th century and the ship is the newly commissioned Enterprise-E. Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart), has been ordered not to interfere in a combat between a Borg Cube and ships from the Federation. However, seeing the Federation is about to lose, Picard ignore his orders and take command of the defending fleet. With his knowledge of the weak spot of the Cube, they destroy it. However, a small part of it escapes and plot a course directly to Earth. The Enterprise chases it and enters a time distortion created by the Borg. They end up in the mid 21st century, their only chance of stopping the Borg from assimilating Earth being to help Zefram Cochrane make his famous first faster than light travel to the stars...The music made by the late Jerry Goldsmith was amazing, special effects were awesome, acting performances were great.If you like Independence Day, or Star Trek, you will like this one.Star Trek First Contact gets 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A great star trek movie . A horrific monochrome race that converts the enterprise crew into the enemy. Emotion ,drama ,arguments and internal conflict and a lot of action. We get to see humanities first contact with an alien race and the inventor of warp drive ,a troubled alcoholic uncomfortable with the hero worship he gets from the crew. All this as picard wrestles with his own demons about his experiences and hatred of the borg a passion that threatens their mission and the future of humanity. The ending classic and inspirational as gene roddenbury always wanted trek to be. Even the sound track is great in this filmwow Im gushing "},{"Title":"Should have left out the 21st century crap","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The fascinating part of this very good show was the conflict between the Borg, who are great villains, and the humans. But the business about following the Borg back in time and making sure mankind discovers warp drive was boring. The zefram cochrane character of the free-spirit scientist has been done in countless movies and i really hated the Lily character who got on board the Enterprise and started bossing around the captain!! Plus Lily was ugly as sin. When will Hollywood learn that bald men are OK but bald women aren't.Best part of the movie is Patrick Stewart as the Enterprise Captain and former member of the Borg. The Borg queen was a great character too. "},{"Title":"Star Trek First Contact","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek has been a very successful film franchise, but of all the films made, this is the only so far that has been rated the full five our five stars by the critics, quite an agreeable amount. Basically the Earth made first contact with an alien race (the Vulcans)in the 24th Century, after World War III in the year 2056, and the dangerous alien species the Borg have returned to change the course of the future with this moment. Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart), who was once captured and became part of the Borg himself, and the crew of the new Enterprise ignore their orders from the failing Federation, and join the attack on the Borg cube. Part of the mission consists on getting into contact with the man who ultimately helps the future run on course, so Commander William T. Riker (Frakes) and Lt. Commander Geordi La Forge (LeVar Burton) go to find Zefram Cochrane (James Cromwell). The Enterprise is slowly being taken over by the power of the Borg, who are turning many crew members into the humanoid robot monsters they are, and they want the codes to take the ship as a whole. Lily Sloane (K-PAX's Alfre Woodard), unintentionally brought from Earth, advises Picard that the only way to stop them is to blow up the ship, and after initially refusing (with the No! No! and smashing quote South Park borrowed for the episode Something You Can Do With Your Finger), he agrees. After many attempts to stop them, and many deaths and takeovers, the self-destruction of Enterprise is set, but the Borg Queen (The Little Vampire's Alice Krige) has managed to get android Lt. Commander Data (Independence Day's Brent Spiner) under her spell. Picard goes to rescue his friend, who has had human skin and the sense of feeling grafted, and he stops the bomb, but his mind has not been taken over enough, and he helps to save the day, and the first contact is successful. Also starring Michael Dorn as Lt. Commander Worf, Gates McFadden as Dr. Beverly Crusher, Marina Sirtis as Counselor Deanna Troi, Dwight Schultz as Lt. Barclay, Band of Brothers' Neal McDonough as Lieutenant Hawk and Robert Picardo as Holographic doctor. The special effects, acting and story (with in-jokes and stuff) are what make this what it is, The Journey Home may be my favourite of the films, but this is the best of The Next Generation, a great science-fiction adventure. It was nominated for the Oscar for Best Makeup. Very good! "},{"Title":"Can Our Future Be Altered/First Contact","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I found this movie appealing in several ways. The main one that comes to my mind is the subject of our futures and whether they are written in stone. The Enterprise travellled back in time through a wormhole to attempt to stop the Borg from destroying their present existence. I think of my study in the Bible Book of Ezekiel and how the human effort of the peoples of Tyre (now situated off the coast of Lebanon) had reversed the prophecy which Ezekiel had made about King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon destroying them in war around 586 BC. The prophecy was reversed temporarily as Ezekiel notes. This was because their determined effort for seven years had caused the Babylonians to quit and retreat. Later God caused Alexander the Great to finish them off. But even the prophesied future of peoples can be altered at times by determined human effort. It was also interesting to see humanities and technology (not science) together. Some science people aren't very cultured people in real life. I was in science until the profession or the government started violating my human rights. Then I did not even look at a sci-fi movie for years! Star Trek movies and TV shows, especially the ones with William Shatner are more intelligently written that Star Wars movies. I had watched a rerun of a Star Wars movie on TV with them firing all those photon torpedoes and all I could think of was a corny 80's video game! Star Trek used to have some heavy philosophical and moral issuezx in them. Yet I am not a science geek. I have been out in the world and have had my education in the school of life as well. Yet this movie interested me very much and I bought the video. "},{"Title":"Trek at its best!","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After the lacklustre disappointment of 'Star Trek Generations', 'Star Trek First Contact' renewed my faith in the Trek films and left me blown away by its brilliance.Picard and his crew are now aboard the newly-commissioned Enterprise-E when the Borg invade Federation space. Ordered not to intervene in the fierce battle raging between Starfleet and the Borg Cube because of Picard's personal experience as a drone, he ignores his commands to take control of the fleet. Although, under his instruction, he is able to elicit the destruction of the Cube, a small section of the ship escapes into a time distortion in an attempt to change history by assimilating Earth in the mid twenty-first century. The Enterprise swiftly follows, determined to save the planet and the future...The usual faces are all back in fine form with Patrick Stewart giving a fantastic performance as a Picard caught between his mission and his vengeance while Jonathan Frakes, Marina Sirtis and LeVar Burton clearly relish the chance to portray their characters' confusion and fascination with twenty-first century Earth and meeting Earth's greatest scientist Zefram Cochrane, the man who would revolutionise light speed capability for starships in the Trek-verse. It's not often Star Trek romances work but Alfre Woodward was excellent as Lily Sloane, Cochrane's aide who has a chemistry with Picard and seems one of the few characters able to interact with his character on a personal level. James Cromwell was just hilarious as Zefram Cochrane, a drunken pale shade of the hero he is thought to be in the twenty-fourth century and a man who doesn't want the devotion of the Enterprise crew (his scene with Dwight Schultz's Barclay was a great touch). And Alice Krige leaves a lasting impression as the cool, sociopathic Borg Queen.As well as first-rate special effects for the Borg battle and Zefram's first flight, 'Star Trek First Contact' has everything in terms of a tight, involving plot with plenty of action, humour and character development. The Borg are depicted with the same chilling air that was apparent in 'The Best of Both Worlds' (one of the best 'Star Trek The Next Generation' episodes for the uninitiated). The film rounds off in a manner that is very satisfying and almost bittersweet, giving hope for the future the Enterprise crew returns to, the future of Cochrane's war-torn Earth and the future of our planet in general.'Star Trek First Contact' is, undeniably, the best of the Trek films for the diverse themes it touches upon and for the way it takes the series back to its roots of strong, stalwart characters engaged in action and drama. It is also a film that would appeal to both Trek fans and non-fans alike as, apart from scenes referencing Picard's link to the Borg that can be quickly figured out by anyone with a brain, it easily stands alone without requiring an in-depth knowledge of 'The Next Generation'. Perhaps, one to initiate your friends into the brilliance of Trek!Overall, certainly a film to see if you want to see Trek, and sci-fi, at its best. "},{"Title":"Holds up, for the most part","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First Contact is a fairly rare beast - a Star Trek movie that was a big, big hit with the general public as well as science fiction fans. Only Star Trek IV The Voyage Home was clearly more popular than this film.So why did First Contact do so well? Simply put, because it's a good action yarn. The Borg are scary enemies, well-established in American popular culture, and there are plenty of space and phaser battles to keep audiences excited. The plot is intricate enough to be interesting, though not so complex or nerdy to put people off.Despite all these plusses, I must say that, back in 1996, I thought First Contact was sort of lame. I like it better now, but still see flaws.The segments that take place on planet Earth have never quite worked for me. What's so interesting, really, about hanging out in a ramshackle community of drunkards - particularly when the stuff happening aboard the Enterprise is so much more compelling? I've also never really liked the segment when the Borg build some sort of communications gubbins on the Enterprise's deflector dish. It strikes me as blatant padding, because it has nothing to do with the main thread of the plot.Ultimately, I think the problem with this film is that it's front-loaded, as they say. The giant space battle (well, not giant really...just sort of big) occurs almost right away. Many of the moody special effects involving the Borg cube are shown early on, too. Once the cube is destroyed - very easily, I must say - the Borg are never quite as threatening, and there are no more opportunities for large-scale action.This is not to say that the movie is bad. There's still plenty of good material, much of it involving Data, whose conversations with the Borg Queen are intriguing and often funny. (I can't say I find the Borg Queen sexy, though...nor do I really accept that they'd have a queen!) The special effects and music are slick all throughout, and the Next Generation crew are always competent performers, if not quite as likable as Captain Kirk and company.So, in the final analysis, there's no doubt that this is a pretty cool Star Trek movie. But, for whatever it's worth, I don't think it's quite great. It certainly would've benefited from more measured pacing, and more of a threatening Borg presence in the Earth scenes. Still, it's better than I remembered... "},{"Title":"By far the best of the newer Trek movies--and one of the best overall","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Although there are some aspects of the film that directly contradict episodes of the original series (such as Zefram Cochrane as portrayed by straight-laced Glenn Corbett in the show and the alcohol-sucking oddball played by James Cromwell in this movie), this is one of the very best Star Trek films. For me, most of this is due to the Captain Ahab-like performance by Patrick Stewart. In countless episodes of the original series and in the last movie, Picard was just too stiff and dull. But, in this film, he's pretty crazed and you see so much more emoting--and I'm sure MANY fans were glad to finally see this. I loved watching the good Captain mowing down the Borg with a Tommy Gun!!! In addition, the film, apart from Picard, has a very light heart and was pretty funny. Plus, it was great to finally see how and why the humans first came into contact with life outside our miserable planet! Exciting, well-written and full of wonderful fun--that's why I really liked this movie. "}{"Title":"A pinnacle of Science Fiction movies of the 1990's","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Being a science fiction and action fan, I decided to rent this movie. I never considered myself a Trekkie but seeing a few episodes of Star Trek The Next Generation, the riveting Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country and the somewhat decent Star Trek Nemesis, I wanted to give this a try. I never regretted my decision.The movie is about Captain Piccard (Patrick Stewart) and his crew of the spaceship the USS Enterprise E trying to repel an Earthbound invasion from the Borg. (An alien race of half-organic and machine living beings) Just as the Borg's flagship is being destroyed, the aliens launch a sphere toward Earth which causes a time warp. The Enterprise follows the Borg time travel device through the time warp (in which Picard and his crew, catch a glimpse of Earth being transformed by the Borg)and they both end up going from the 24th century to the mid 21st.Captain Piccard realizes that the Borg are trying to alter Earth's history by disrupting an event known as First Contact. (The day in which a race of aliens called the Vulcans discover Earth and help the human race into a renaissance which leads to the colonization and exploration of space.) The Enterprise destroys the Borg vessel and the crew beam down to an area in Montana in which they are looking for the first-man who would travel the speed of light known as Cochran(James Cromwell).However, the Borg's have somehow teleported onto the Enterprise and are starting to modify to it. They kidnap crew members and transform them into Borgs. With Piccard, Worf, Data, and Crusher (Stewart, Michael Dorn, Brent Spiner, Gates McFadden) on board along with a woman named Lilly from the 21st century(Alfre Woodard) they must attempt to retake the Enterprise. Meanwhile back on Earth, Geordi, Deanna, and Riker(Levar Burton, Marina Sirtis, and Jonathan Frakes) must help a boozed up Cochrane for his history making event that leads the human race to peace.The movie is well made, well written, and well directed. The special effects are still impressive over a decade later. The actors give out great performances and the Borg's makeup effects are spectacular. There is action, suspense, musical scores by Jerry Goldsmith (One of the greatest composers of all time), humor, and inner conflict.As a non-Trekkie, I recommend this movie to science fiction fans, and Star Trek The Next Generation fans. You won't regret seeing this! 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My favorite Star Trek movie!","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First Contact is one of the greatest entertaining popular movies of the '90s.It has pretty much all you can ask from a top SF movie.It is in no way a bluff,a hoax,or a deception.On the contrary,it is thrilling,broad,interesting epic,intense and intelligent.The movie's plastic is impressing.Dense,strong,sturdy,quick and vigorous acting from Stewart and Mrs. Krige.The photography is prodigious,the cast is competent,diligent and skillful.Everybody seems to be doing his best.Everything works and fits,the tempo is excellent.I think it was a mistake that Mrs. Sirtis wasn't given a bigger part.It's such a pity to have her on the screen for only a few moments.The ugliness of the Borgs is luxuriant,fascinating and expressive.The impression left by First Contact is one of an artistic success,of an achievement. "},{"Title":"Even if you don't love Trek, you may love this film...","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm not the biggest Trek fan in the world, let me start off. I was weary when I heard that Frakes would be directing this, but, in conjunction with Rick Berman and the other writers, he did a fantastic job (not sure what happened with Insurrection...). There is a perfect blend of comedy, drama, adventure and action. It is a true Star Trek film, through and through. I suggest you buy it for those rainy days sitting at home, it'll definitely cheer you up. Jerry Goldsmith's score is an uncanny match for First Contact's appealing visuals. Our first glimpse of the Enterprise-E, the fanfare in the background is close to perfect. Aside from the few script discrepancies (i.e. the number of decks) the script is amazing. Alice Krige's performance as the Borg Queen will send shivers down your spine and make your skin crawl. The only downfall is that great characters like Crusher and LaForge don't get a chance to really shine. Patrick Stewart is, as always, marvelous and you can't get close to Brent Spiner. All in all, I'd have to give this one two thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"Wonderful warp plot but an insult to Zephram Cochrane","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ours is a household of Trekkies, and personally for me, this Star Trek film ranks right up there with The Wrath of Khan (for its drama) and The Voyage Home (for its comedy). What an absolutely brilliant plot idea, the Borg up to their usual shenanigans, this time attempting to interfere with Zephram Cochrane's invention of the warp drive in the 21st Century. The Enterprise crew is wonderful as always, and the main plot line fabulous, though I find the film lags a bit during the latter half with the lengthy space shots outside the Enterprise. The finale is stupendous...the landing of the first alien ship and the dramatic descent of its Vulcan crew down the stairs. The moment when the cloaked Vulcan lifts his hood, revealing to the stunned earthlings his unusual ears will go down in the annals of Star Trek (and indeed all science fiction) history. Also, the theme music from this film is, along with the Voyager theme, the most moving in Trekdom. Both were composed by the talented late composer, Jerry Goldsmith.However, I am OUTRAGED by the complete alteration of the character of Zephram Cochrane, presumably to make him more entertaining and appealing to modern (brainless?) audiences. We all know what Cochrane is like from the episode Metamorphosis in the Original Series; he's handsome, clean cut, conventional, and presumably intelligent. To turn this pivotal historical character into a sleazy, swearing, drunken grease monkey (announcing that he's going to take a leak, mind you) is the worst outrage in the history of science fiction. You cannot simply alter an established character 180 degrees to pacify the masses... the dumbing down of Zephram Cochrane, I call it. Are other true Trekkies not outraged or are they just laughing along with those who don't know any better? Poor Cochrane is rolling over in his grave, positively spinning. (Or will be...I keep forgetting that he probably hasn't even been born yet or is still in diapers.) By the way, I really didn't appreciate the swearing, especially Cochrane's remark when the Phoenix first goes into warp. The TV series manage just fine without this type of language, and I see no reason why the movies should deviate. Likewise, the Borg Queen's attempts to sexually arouse Data didn't impress me much either. Must sex be absolutely everywhere all the time?These factors aside, it's a great plot idea and an entertaining movie. My teenage son hopes he'll live to be 76 years old so he'll be around when warp drive comes into existence in 2063! "},{"Title":"Best Trek Movie ever","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First Contact is one of the best Star Trek and Science Fiction Movies i've ever seen. It's a wonderful Story with two interesting Arcs Zefram Cochrane's first Warpflight with his Phoenix and - of course - Picard's fight against the Borg. Very good Special Effects and Actors. My favourite Scenes are the Spacebattle against the Borg and the First Contact Scene between Zefram Cochrane an the Vulcan. Very good Job by Rick Berman an Jonathan Frakes. Also very good work by the Art Directors, they created the Borg. Very realistic. Last but not least The New Enterprise NCC-1701-E. It's a wonderful Starship, created by John Eaves. He did a good Job designing that Spaceship. Much better then the model from the TV Series The Next Generation. Best Star Trek Motion Picture ever. "},{"Title":"Resistance is futile, and it was pretty futile to continue the franchise after this movie.","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My two favorite scenes in Star Trek First Contact are the opening scene, and Dr. Zefram Cochrane's (James Cromwell) disbelief of his future legacy. For the most part, the movie seems pretty much like most of the franchise, but they certainly do a good job with it. Patrick Stewart is always cool as Capt. Jean-Luc Picard. Overall, I think that this was the last really good Star Trek movie; after this, they boldly went to where they'd gone before (my favorite Star Trek movie was The Voyage Home). And personally, I think that this was Alice Krige's best role ever; Chariots of Fire was basically pro-western propaganda. All in all, definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie attributes and a monument for political history","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek First contact is not just the average action film in which the world is saved against cybernetic aliens it has so much more depth. Continuing the idea of the one minded alien species the Borg on their quest to Perfection the Borg lifestyle reflects what George Orwell communicated through Animal Farm. The Brog use a process called assimilation in which nanites are inject into an organism and they work to alter the victims body, alter them to be Borg. Assimilation is worse than death, it takes away everything an individual is leaves them with nothing. No soul, memories, individual thought no individual humanity. Further more the process leaves them linked to the Borg hive mind and they are plagued with several hundred billion voices and thoughts of several hundred billion. This reflects the lives of those that endured the hardships that were brought about by the new rules in Russia, no material possession people were forced into a life a poverty where the poor got poorer and the rich got richer. Along with the fantastic metaphor with Earth's political history, an exciting plot, the best special effects and performances from Patrick Stewart and Brent Spiner that are second to nobody First Contact does not only have the makings of a box office hit it is an iconic film in relation to Russia during the mid twentieth century. A word to summarise MASTERPIECE "},{"Title":"Excellent work Number One!","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wow! Finally, a STAR TREK movie for EVERYONE.From the muted opening titles to the celebratory end credits, Jonathan frakes has done what so many other directors have failed to do Open the movie-going world to the wonders of STAR TREK.Being an avid fan myself, you would think me biased. But I, like so many other followers out there, am all too aware of how geeky the franchise can be. Most of its shows and films rely much too heavily on headache-inducing technobabble and convoluted plot twists.But this film stands out among the rest.Picard's assimilation by the Borg was never shown in the TV series, although its after-effects were shown in a later episode. So fans never really got the FEELING of being swallowed up by the venomous Borg. We never saw how their instruments violated a man's body, their Collective thoughts hammering away at a man's soul.So what does Frakes do? OPEN up the movie with just that Picard, enveloped in machinery, injected with tubes--a needle piercing his EYE for God's sake. By throwing it in our faces he not only thrilled the Trekkies, but also intrigued the Trek virgins, horrifying them with visions of how evil these creatures can be.Now I can waffle on for a century about the amazing space battle, the Enterprise under siege, and the ultimate destruction of the Borg's truly evil Queen.I won't.I can rain applause's on the producers, writers and directors for FINALLY giving the NEXT GEN crew a heart and soul, and making us sympathise with a crew who normally look down their noses at everything.I won't.All i'll say is this watch the film. Forget it's STAR TREK (anathema to WAY too many viewers out there). Just enjoy a well-made film for what it is. And Frakes, I hope Paramount gave you a heavy pat on the back.Well done Number One. Well done! "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Definitely the best of the NextGen movies and one of the best Star Trek movies period. Star Trek movies that mess with time, like this one and TOS #4, are always cool. What's really neat is to sit down and think about the temporal mechanics of this movie. From what I understand about temporal phenomena, the Borg could not really change the past, they could only A)No time traveling allowed B) Create a new timestream or C)Always fail in their attempt to change the past. So, since Picard and his crew managed to stop the Borg, they obviously failed to create a new timestream and fall under category C. Picard didn't create a new timestream either, otherwise he would not have been able to return to the 24th century, at least not his 24th century. I just really love this movie! "},{"Title":"Earth Population approximately 9 Billion...all Borg...","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Borg Cybernetic, relentless, almost unstoppable, and now they're changing Mankind's history, changing the future, with only one crew to stop them...-------------------This movie follows the crew from the Star Trek The Next Generation (1987) TV series, with Captain Picard in the Captain's chair.The film focuses on a report that the Borg, a cybernetic race that consume and assimilate anyone and anything, and destroy anything opposing them, are set on a direct course for Earth in a massive Borg Cube vessel.A huge spacefight slows but does not stop the gigantic vessel, that is until Captain Picard finds their only flaw, crippling, then destroying the Cube.The Borg manage to launch an escape ship, a Borg Sphere, toward Earth, refusing to give up.All of a sudden, the Borg Sphere creates a temporal vortex, a portal to the past, catching the Enterprise in the temporal wake.While stuck in the wake, the crew see Earth change before their very eyes, history changed. The Borg have gone back and changed something in the past, the ship protected by the wake.Captain Picard orders the Enterprise to follow, to stop the Borg, to undo the damage done to the timeline.They discover the date in the past they arrive in, is in fact the day before First Contact, Earth's first encounter with a species from another world. Earth in this time is weakened from the aftermath of World War Three, ripe for the Borg to attack and consume. The Enterprise crew must go back and defeat the Borg, ensure First Contact occurs, and help undo the damage, or their own ship, and their future itself, is history.  "}{"Title":"One of the best in the series","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Truly one of the best of the series of movies. Frakes does a wonderful job directing, and all of the regular characters do a great job in supporting their roles. James Cromwell comes across extremely well, especially with the attitude that he is just a man trying to get rich. He adds a funny touch from blasting his music to getting Deanna drunk. The Borg was always such a scary and how do we beat these guys enemy. Alice performs a superb acting job and I rank this up there with # 2, 4 and 6.  "},{"Title":"One of the finest Star Trek films","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" SPOILERSSince Roddenberry first came up with the idea of Star Trek there have been some legendary enemies. Khan Noonian Singh from the original series and 1982's The Wrath Of Khan, the Klingons, the Romulans and the Cardassians are just four of the enemies which different crews in this fictional universe have had to fight against. Perhaps the most fear inducing enemy of them all however, is the Borg. These machine obsessed beings who work as a collective unit of drones have freaked out many a fan over the years and in this eighth film of the series, they take their rightful place as big screen enemies.As he rests aboard the new USS Enterprise NCC 1701-E (One year out of space-dock), Captain Picard is informed of a Borg Cube attacking the Earth. As Picard faces his own demons, he fights to prevent the Borg from destroying humanity's history before it has even happened.Whilst perhaps not as perfect as the previously mentioned The Wrath Of Khan, this film is easily up there amongst the finest of the series. By having the Borg as the enemy in this film, the films producers are able to spend a fortune on special effects, making these creatures as terrifying as possible. Whilst certain races fail to be scary due to the fact that they are so alien, the Borg remind us of how technology can destroy us. The Borg are former humanoids who have evolved to fit technology on their own bodies. This idea that we could actually become a member of this collective by loosing our individuality is an awful prospect and is so imaginable that it is no wonder the Borg scare people.As well as having the ultimate Star Trek enemy in this film, the reason it works is it has such a huge combination of humour and violence. Whilst aboard the Enterprise we have almost non-stop violence as the crew fight back the attacking Borg, on the Planet Earth we are given a treat in Zefram Cochrane's (James Cromwell) terror at the idol worship he endures. Cochrane, the man responsible for the warp drive, creates the technology for the financial benefit, but when the crew begin to arrive and praise him, we are shown his absolute horror at this constant attention he gets. Cromwell's scientist is the ultimate example of someone who doesn't want any of the celebrity status which they deserve. Cochrane is a difficult role to play and it feels that the part could so easily have gone wrong, but with superb acting by Cromwell and decent direction by Jonathan Frakes (Commander Riker himself), the character is played just right.The final point worth mentioning about Star Trek First Contact is that it has the character interaction perfectly. When watching the original crew (Kirk and friends) in the earlier movies, they worked so well because as well as being shipmates, they were close friends. In 1994's Star Trek Generations, this generation never seemed to really click. It was noticeable that they were friends, but it is only really in this second outing that we begin to experience their free flowing banter. The conversations between Riker, La Forge (LeVar Burton) and Troi (Marina Sirtis) are brilliant because the three make jokes and are laid back together. They get the job done, but they always appear to enjoy each others company. This banter was seriously lacking in the first film and it is a joy to see it in Star Trek First Contact.So to summarise, it doesn't feel really fair to compare this film with 1982's Wrath Of Khan, or even 1991's The Undiscovered Country, mainly because the two different crews are remarkably different. These three films are easily the finest of the series however and First Contact is a joy to watch from start to finish. You'll laugh, you'll feel for the crew, and you'll be intimidated by the deadliest enemy the Federation and Earth have ever faced. This film is a must watch. "},{"Title":"Now this is how you make a Trek film&#133;..","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This has got decent special effects, a well written intelligent plot, some wonderful acting and the best bad guys in the business - our old friends the Borg.The Borg had a bit of a makeover for their first film appearance and benefited from it, had they used the previous TV series Borg, this would have been laughed at as cheap.Also new is the Enterprise &#145;E' which as per standard Trek, the Borg and indeed everyone else proceed to take apart and wreck.  An impressive ship with an amazing and well detailed selection of sets for the interior no doubt but rather obviously one that has been specifically designed to look good on the big screen unlike its predecessor.Once again however we do dip into that well trodden field of Data's emotions and human development, thankfully this is kept to a fair minimum.  Indeed with the wonderfully put together scenes on the Earth of the past and its characters, we can forgive the scriptwriters a little bit.Strong performances all round, notably Patrick Stewart as ever but also from pretty much everyone in the supporting cast, even the cameo by Voyager's holographic doctor!All in all a very assimilating Trek film and probably the last decent one of the series, certainly the best of the Next Generation crew's efforts.  "},{"Title":"Song..Magic Carpet Ride","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was a great song for the scene it was placed in. Makes you want to fly. In this movie, (towards the end) Geordi La Forge and William Riker are on the first warp dive starship, and are getting ready to blast into space with it's inventor, Zefram Cochrane, played by actor James Cromwell. Cochrane, just before the liftoff, says he has forgot something and starts hunting frantically for that something. He produces a cassette tape, and puts it in a player in the spaceship. It is Magic Carpet Ride by Steppenwolf. The year is suppose to be 2063. I could see this song, as well as much of the old rock and roll surviving well into the late 21st century. It was the perfect song for this scene in the movie. This song rocks. It is great to see people of the current generation finding out how great the music of my generation is. ROCK AND ROLL OF THE 60s and 70s LIVES ON FOREVER. "},{"Title":"The best Trek movie, except for one nitpick","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  (SOME SPOILERS) Star Trek First Contact is perhaps the best Star Trek movie ever, or at least in the top 3, but definitely one of the best Sci-Fi movies of all time. Though the movie may seam like an action flick on the surface, deep down it has some very good morals, the movie takes place some 50 years after the Eugenics Wars, where the Earth is completely destroyed by war, apart from the Borg side of the story, this film tells of a man (Zefram Cochrane) who took a nuclear warhead and made it into a ship that could travel at warp, that of course attracts the Vulcans who come to Earth and make First Contact and a new era of peace begins! The only thing that sets this movie back is a small nitpick, about how the Borg travel to the past to assimilate Earth. The question everybody's asking is Why didn't they just time travel first, then go to Earth, instead of time traveling at Earth where the Enterprise can follow them and foil their plans?! Or why don't they just try a do-over? The producers will have to work something out about the Borg's inconsistency in many factors.  "},{"Title":"Star Trek at it's Finest","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is by far, the best Next Generation movie. In fact, it's my second favorite Star Trek movie of all time (next to The Wrath of Kahn!). First Contact brought ALL of the familiar elements of the series to the big screen for the first time. You had minor characters, TV references, humor, drama, outstanding special effects, and most of all, a really good, driving storyline. It also gave us terrific performances by our favorite actors. Unlike Generations, this movie gave all of the characters screen time and they each had an important part to contribute to the story. It really felt like a continuation of the TV show, yet had all of the splendor and fanfare of an epic motion picture.Jonathan Frakes did an outstanding job directing, and Jerry Goldsmith's musical score was superb. Even if you've been living in a cave and never saw a Star Trek episode, this movie is just plain good! I give this movie two thumbs up and ten stars!  "},{"Title":"Great film for everyone, trekker and non-trekker alike.","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is a really good film. Its well directed, and well acted. There are many little tit-bits that only fans will pick out, which makes it a good watch for a trekker, but also its a good film to introduce someone to startrek. It was the first ever star trek that i watched, and i enjoyed the film as it was, without thinking Whats going on here because i was new to the franchise. Its fun, and serious at the same time/I think that one of the things that makes this film for me, is the Borg. The borg have always been a little mysterious, but this film gives them a 3rd dimension, which is later added to by Voyager.Overall, its good for anyone new to the franchise, or an old and aquainted fan.SEE THIS FILM "},{"Title":"Perfect Future Imperfect (spoilers)","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One staple institution of Hollywood is the Star Trek series of TV shows and films. As with anything that becomes a day-to-day phenomenon, the various Treks have fallen into neglect assuming that its loyal group followers of sometimes religious fervor will swallow everything from bad writing to cheesy sets. Fortunately, this eighth installment in the film series ended the trend. While doubling in his role as the second in command of the Enterprise crew, Johnathan Frakes steps in as director and lends both dark vision and well-placed humor to the film. Although admittedly a commercial venture playing off other science fiction films such as The Terminator, Aliens, and Leonard Nemoy's Star Trek IV, Star Trek First Contact creates an adventure that is enjoyable and exciting.Defying direct orders, the crew of the 24th century U.S.S. Enterprise returns to Earth to help defeat an invading force of a cyborg race known as The Borg. When their invasion attempt appears to be a losing battle, the Borg travel back in time to conquer the Earth when it is defenseless. The heroes follow the invaders back to the mid 21st century where they must help the injured human race prepare to make its first contact with friendly extra terrestrial life. The Borg make their way aboard the Enterprise, and begin converting it and its crew for their own purposes. The inner struggles of the cast include a thirst for revenge in the Captain who was almost converted by the Borg, a great discomfort with becoming a historical figure in the inventor who will make first contact, and the temptation of becoming human for the android who wants nothing more.At its worst, Star Trek is entertaining science fiction, however, it is best at commenting on the daily question of how we determine what is best for ourselves in contrast to what others want us to do. The Borg have been assimilating every world, culture, and individual in an attempt to correct natural flaws and force them into the rigid perfection of mechanized, ordered life. In an attempt to help the future, the crew of the 24th Century pile upon the inventor, Dr. Cochran, the responsibility of the human race's good fortune of the coming years. Both groups think they can provide a better choice for the people they impose upon, only to find resistance to a life without choice. As the characters face their various challenges, they all find that decisions cannot be made out of blind faith or spite, but rather by discovering what their own reasons are. Then, after finding what the situation holds for them, a decision can be made that will bring about an end that the character can live with.Director Jonathan Frakes does not let special effects rule the screen and uses the camera to create a sense of suspense not usually found in the Trek series. As the Borg begin to assimilate the Enterprise and crew members are attacked, their presence is made more terrifying with the camera placed in their perspective allowing the audience to experience only the shock and fear of the crew's reactions. At times, the effects and set design of the Star Trek series have not always been up to par with other science-fiction films, however, in First Contact, both elements are well-done only adding to the credibility of the story. Not only the obvious special effects of laser blasts and time rifts make the film extraordinary visually, but the more subtle effects add to the film as well. When three members of the crew step out onto the ship's hull, the scenery of space and the expansiveness of the ship are impressive along with the subjective shots from inside helmets as characters maneuver through weightlessness. Although his resume has only been peppered with success since, Frakes' directorial debut is one of tremendous skill at creating thrills.With a firm plot, fresh directing, and stunning visuals, First Contact is an exciting film. This film elevates itself from being just another money - making sequel to an entertaining science-fiction film with a well - articulated message.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"top drawer movie","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  We finally get to see Zefram Cochrane! And he says the words 'Star Trek'! And the Borg are in it!Yes, this really is a film for the fans.  It's a bit like the episode of Teenage Mutant Hero Turtles, How It All Began.  Here we get to see the birth of the Star Trek universe - the first ever Warp flight.  Older fans of the original series may have felt some things are best left to the imagination, but for newer fans, this film is a gem.Director Jonathan Frakes does a great job here, some truly engaging action scenes, in particular, the floatilla of Starships battling the Borg cube. Frakes' masterpiece however, was yet to come. (Star Trek Insurrection).The original script for this film had Picard helping Cochrane on Earth, and Riker up in Space fighting the Borg, and it's just aswell this was changed. Picard gets to be the action hero, which is only fair. It's his ship, after all.A top drawer movie, worthy of the Trek name. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Star Trek in its best!","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, i don´t want to say much and i think that i don´t have to, this film is just fantastic, there are great special effects and action scenes but the story is also great (the Borg just are the best bad guys in Star Trek!).The crew is acting very good and also the minor characters like for example Lieutenant Hawk aren´t as flat as in other movies so you also feel with them and not just with the regular crew when they fight (and die).So for all the Star Trek fans in the world and also for those who aren´t Take a look at this film, it´s really good an easy to understand if you have seen the beginning and know little about Star Trek! "}{"Title":"Fascinating.","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I went into this movie with a major grain of salt, despite the amazing hype (To my knowledge, the only Trek movie that had its own CHOCOLATE BARS) and glowing reviews I'd heard from the few people I knew who'd seen it. I first saw it sometime in 1997, and I was horribly disappointed. From the beginning and Picard's Whoa! It was just a dream sequence, all the way up to the just-plain bizarre fight between Picard and Worf, and the forced climax... I hated it.After having rewatched it countless times (at least twice on Network television in the past 2 years), I can say that it's not as bad as I originally thought, indeed, it is a pretty good movie, and every viewing has given me new insights into the best TNG film. (I certainly do not agree that this is so, however!)The movie still takes awhile to really warm up, which is unfortunate because the events at the beginning are crucial to the rest of the film, but the pacing's just off somehow. The battle is utterly forgettable, and it's not until the crew goes down to Earth that it really starts coming together, and the scenes in Montana are the only parts of the movie that even remotely ring of greatness.While Zephram Cochrane does a great job of befuddling the far-removed crew, and Lily kicks some serious ass, I just have difficulty buying the story that these two are the pioneers that they ultimately are. Of course, this is a large part of the plot itself, the shattering of historic idealism and the discovery that our idols are just human... but how human they are! Cochrane didn't strike me as the kind of man who could hit a garbage can on the first try, and all Lily seemed to do was rage at people. Of course, above all, this was Picard (and to a lesser degree, Data)'s movie, and I was not disappointed by Patrick Stewart's performance. He did an amazing job of falling apart and being consumed by anger (You broke your little ships..., Lily) only to turn around and see the error of his ways. And, of course, Data had his second (and, am I mistaken, last?) sexual encounter and learned all about angst from the Borg Queen (lessons that were ultimately forgotten by the next installment...). This is a multi-leveled movie, there's so much going on at once that you will probably have to watch it more than once to get the full picture, and it is ultimately worth it the same way it's worth it to reread a chapter in a textbook. It's fascinating, simply fascinating, but not a masterpiece by any definition.I will say, however, this is possibly the most quotable Trek movie to date. I can not tell you how often I use Perhaps today IS a good day to die! in daily conversation! I find ways to use it, even if it's completely out of context. "},{"Title":"Magical Sci-Fi experience","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, one of the best Trek films made. Words cannot do it justice - not only is the script very strong and creative, but the supporting cast meshes with their roles perfectly. The classic ideals set forth by the Star Trek franchise are present here, and as hard to ignore as ever. A future as bright and broad as this one is an amazing thing to behold - and the old TNG crew does a great job of presenting it to us. The theme of the movie, man's first substantial ventures into space, is well selected and a very moving step out of the ashes that would be, in the Star Trek world, world war III. In any case, put your prejudices against Star Trek aside and go rent this one, you'll be amazed. "},{"Title":"Best of the Next Generation Movies","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  though that might not sound like much of a compliment.  I would actually put it third in all of the Star Trek movies behind Wrath of Khan and Search for Spock.Great action with the borg and James Cromwell is excellent. Alfre Woodard adds to the strong cast "},{"Title":"Borg Mania!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The second next generation movie is a total blast. One of the best star trek movies ever made, along with the best action in a star trek movie. All the actors/actresses perform top notch at their characters. The story is a little similar to Star Trek IV The Voyage Home in that the Enterprise must go back in time to stop a borg threat which is carried out brilliantly. The special effects are also top notch and are wholly convincing. Outstanding performance from Alice Krige who plays the Borg Queen. Fantastic!  "},{"Title":"the best of them","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Finally we get one that is truly great. The best in the series has been 2, 4, 6, 7,  and this one. This film reminded me a lot of the 2nd one with the old cast. Good  ole Khan. The Borg Queen rocks. She was a worthy villian and I loves her witty  banter. "},{"Title":"The last great Trek movie...FOREVER...","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, ST First Contact was released 7 years ago, and Picard and co. have gone on two other voyages. Unfortunately, those two movies sucked.First Contact has it all - the Borg, Tommyguns, and Magic Carpet Ride. See it to remind yourself how good Trek can be.EVEN-NUMBERED TREKS DON'T SUCK (EXCEPT FOR NEMESIS)2. Wrath of Khan - excellent, classic Trek. The Space Seed tie-in rocked. And who knew Ricardo Montalban looked good with his shirt off?4. Voyage Home - a lighter movie after the darker tone of 1, 2, and 3. Decent story, good effects, breezy plot.6. Undiscovered Country - wonderfully done piece of Trek. One of the best mysteries in Trek.8. First Contact - an epic, great movie. Everyone on TNG gets their little moment, and it comes together nicely. Also a great score.10. Nemesis - breaks the rule. A silly, hole-filled plot, no sense of the emotional impact between characters, etc. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this film","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film, it successfully incorporated many themes from the TNG TV shows, and also the silver screen renditions. It held my interest all the way through. It contained drama, action and humor. The special effects were, once again, very elegant and convincing, easily the best space opera effects.My favorite scene was the interplay between Data and the Borg Queen, classic science fiction. I have 2 small gripes 1) How come the Borg are always altered humans? I would love to see some variety in the Borg. 2) TNG is a little sterile, kind of warm and fuzzy, as are all of the new Star Trek spin-offs on TV nowadays.3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Love the Borg Queen","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First Contact is the best Star Trek I've seen in years.  I would like to point out that I began to take an interest in Star Trek after this film.  The star of this film, in my opinion, is The Borg Queen.  Few Star Trek films are able to craft a villain who can really hold your interest. The Borg seemed rather boring until her first screen appearance. The crew was at their best in this movie as well. Picard was amazing as he added a touch of drama to the action. A wonderful mix of Drama, comedy and action.  "},{"Title":"Awesome film!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay folks, let me state one thing first...I side with the Next Generation series over the older one.  The older series has a sterility and/or blandness that prevents it from being totally engrossing.  I liked the old show, but TNG is so much better, and its movies follow par in that suit.Generations was a great film that handed the movie reins to TNG, and First Contact shows how well they can pilot the movies.  Wonderful action mixed with drama in a well paced movie.  This is one that I can watch over and over again.  You don't have to be a fan of the series to enjoy this one.  Among all the movies, it can stand on its own two feet, without any support from the others. "},{"Title":"My second Star Trek film ever","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I must say this Star Trek Series is not as bad as I thought it'd be (mind that I've only watched 2 films yet). This one is very close to being as good as Star Trek Generations, but it somehow fails. There is enough action and comedy throughout and James Cromwell makes a good performance in this film (probably the best of everyone in the film), but there are times at which the film simply does not have enough. I feel that the viewer is not drawn deeply enough in Capt. Picards troubled mind and that at times sequences involving James Cromwell rocking on earth and that Borg collective being mean are not good enough. There is no real villain here and one wonders how creatures that stupid can assimilate whole countries. Well it is pretty good, but it also has it's flaws.6,5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Picard makes it so...so very good","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's interesting that the two of the most acclaimed Star Trek films - this one, and The Wrath of Khan - are essentially direct sequels to TV episodes. In this case, First Contact picks up 6 years later from where Best of Both Worlds left off.  Patrick Stewart, as Picard, gives what is easily his best performance in the Next Generation trio of films, and (don't laugh) could have snagged an Oscar nomination if Trek wasn't viewed as a cult franchise.  Certainly he does no worse than Sigourney Weaver in Aliens -- and Ms. Weaver snagged an Oscar nomination for that. "},{"Title":"Yawn, Yawn, Yawn","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I loved the old Star Trek series, and I loved Star Trek II The Wrath Of Khan.  My negative reaction to Star Trek IV set off a tone of hostility towards all new Star Trek projects that continues to this day.  I bailed out of Next Generation halfway through the first episode because I was bored to death and never watched another one again.For reasons I can't fathom, I decided to rent this movie and see if there was something I could warm up to this time.  Alas, my terminal boredom with Trek only remains after yawning my way through this mishmash.  And every story I've heard of how Next Generation tried to give lessons in PC week after week was proved correct with Picard and his nonsensical story about how money is gone in the future and how a Utopia now exists blah, blah, blah where no one pursues wealth.  Evidently, the events of 1989 never happened in this pathetic vision of the future.About the only thing I can say in its defense is that the concern for keeping history straight is handled far better than the cavalier disregard shown by the old crew in the horrible Star Trek IV, but even then I would point out to the producers that the Zefrem Cochran of the old episode Metamorphosis was from Alpha Centauri, not Earth, and he never heard of the Federation or saw a Vulcan, so even this attempt to provide a bridge to the old series fell flat with me.Trek has become too big a phenomenon and has failed to produce a single interesting story since Star Trek II.  It ought to finally be put to sleep for good. "},{"Title":"Highly flawed and rather inane movie","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I honestly cannot get why supposed Star Trek fans like this movie. If ever there was a Star Trek movie that spit in the face of everything Star Trek was supposed to be about, its this one.The major issue is the entire Zephram Cochran storyline. Cochran is known, to long time fans of the series, as the man who invents warp drive. The device that gives the trek to Star Trek. So the lame producers and writers of this movie have decided that we have to see how it happened. What they do is take the supposed heroism and creativity of Cochran and toss them in the toilet.Cochran ends up inventing nothing. The Enterprise crew comes back in time and does all the work for him. Cochran creates nothing and does nothing. So there is the initial warp drive trip to take. Instead of the implied solo flight of Cochran, Geordi and Ryker go along with him. No reason for this is ever given.So we have a supposed hero who knows for a fact that his flight is going to work, and people from the future have come back to take care of all the work. What exactly is heroic or interesting about that? Its lame...completely lame.Never mind the sudden need to have the Vulcans already running around in space warping wherever they want. What that gives us is some interesting contradictions regarding why the hell would the United Federation of Planets be based on Earth after this? Why would the center of the Star Trek universe be on a backwards planet that is literally hundreds of years behind the advanced universe? It would be like turning New Guinea into the home of the United Nations.This is all ignored, because the simple minded mouth breathers that created this crap movie just wanted it to look cool. They don't care about logic or achievement. All they care about is making James Cromwell act like a drunken idiot for comedic effect. If you are a Star Trek fan that likes this movie, shame on you for being as unthinking as the people that made it. "},{"Title":"As far as numbered movies go...","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ... don't listen to such stereotypic nonsense.What does this movie have which is supposed to be any good?It's a 2 hour TV story which has better effects and gives the proverbial finger to so much continuity, I'd like to throw up!Paramount always has a desire to whip up new shiny effects for the franchise (it's not a legacy, it's a franchise.  $$$$$)  And from the Enterprise-E (probably a discarded reject prototype design for Voyager, it figures) to Geordi's phony eyes to silly effects Paramount is feeding on the belief that groovy effects and visuals make a great movie.  No they do not!They try to graft the Borg queen into The Best of Both Worlds.  Anybody who cares about how Trek is written should immediately be annoyed by this. The line you humans think in such 3 dimensional ways stated by the Queen when Picard wonders how she escaped is so pathetic and patronising I'm shocked anybody could accept it.Oh, is there one Borg queen or are there several queens supporting several hives?  We *were* led to believe that the Borg was a singular collective, Q Who (the TV introductary story) definitely proves this.  The queen is a flat-out contradiction but has a great special effect attached to her so therefore she is cool, yes?Ah, it's a time travel movie!  Oh boy!  This movie is so lame, it doesn't even attempt to offer an explaination.  Data confirms this by saying Oh somehow we are protected.  Oh come on, even in that sappy DS9 episode where the gang goes back to 1947 to play the Roswell game, there was 10 minutes worth of exploding kemosite rubbish to justify the latest time travel trip.Oh boy!!!  Who decided that Trek movies are now relegated to pointless fun and silly jokes and set pieces?  Yes Mr Frakes, we know you are having fun making this, but can you understand that some of us viewers still prefer the more 'serious' movies such as Star Treks II and III which have humor but keep it to the side and keep it intelligent.  FC is a farce and the trend only gets worse...Lots of in-jokes don't help the matter (you're on some sort of star trek? says cochrane for example.)And how does the Enterprise get back home at the end?  Just a quick warp out, even though Data only had enough time to figure out that somehow they were protected by this anomaly.I dunno.   Maybe I'm missing something but First Contact leaves a lot to be desired.  I knew Generations had a heap of problems, too, but at least the excuse of We only had 6 months to do it all in could be bought.  You can't use that here. "},{"Title":"Big disappointment","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am a Star Trek fan myself, and I have to tell you that this movie is a disaster. I went to see it with my dad to the cinemas, and before going I thought I might even buy it on video. But no I even fell asleep by the time they put the maglocks in place (Assimilate this!). TNG was much, much better (Thanks God we still have it on tv, OBN.) Greetings from Bosnia.  "},{"Title":"Overrated by a great margin","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek First Contact is beloved by all kinds of fans... this blows my mind. Here's what bothers me They turned Picard into a gun-toting psycho who kills his own crew who are turning into the Borg when even he was saved from the Borg. He's not the enlightened captain we know from the series.Another big problem is nothing makes sense. The Borg go back in time huh? Well why didn't they do that before? What's to stop them from doing it again? Why didn't they go back in time even further? The Borg Queen was a HUGE mistake. She is an antagonist who completely undermines the image and the menace behind the Borg. All the sex stuff between her and Data was just completely wrong and it makes me sick to my stomach to think about this. Why did they have to add so many disgusting sexual innuendos to this movie?! Yes, I'm asking YOU, people who condemn the Transformers movies for having innuendos that are subtle by comparison. I mean You do NOT say Was it good for you too? In a STAR TREK MOVIE!!! You do not have somebody say That is because you haven't been properly stimulated(sexually). That is wrong! It's disgusting! The Holodeck scene makes no sense(I guess Borg can't adapt to Machine gun fire now?!) Then Picard And Lily wander pointlessly about the ship for a long time, and Picard and all the crew violate the temporal prime directive by telling Cochrane and Lily everything about the future! The characters are wasted. Riker, Worf, Geordi, Crusher are simply along either for the ride or to provide the lamest possible comic relief in the history of sci-fi. They don't even have much of a dramatic purpose! That's another thing... Why did they get Troi drunk? Was THAT supposed to be funny? That's not funny, that's a parody of Star Trek! That's farce! I understand light-hearted humor, that's what The Voyage Home did so well, without overdoing it. This movie, and frankly all the Next Gen movies overdid it on the humor, and I use that term VERY loosely.Oh, and the action movie line, Worf actually says Assimilate this! and blows up the deflector dish. Okay, that may be okay for a Die Hard movie, but NOT for a Star Trek film! Stupid action movie clichés like dumb ass one-liners have NO business in a Star Trek movie! And here's the kicker... Data fires torpedoes at the Phoenix ship, WHY?! The Phoenix ship will go to warp and the Ahem Aliens will pick up their presence and that will cause First contact. Why did Data shoot at the Phoenix? The Phoenix could have been destroyed, easily. I don't care if Data has precision aiming, he still cannot account for all kinds of unforeseen variables! It's kind of sad, because First Contact had potential. Seriously, First contact is boring, it's not big enough for a movie. It's nowhere near as good as the Best of both worlds episodes. The characters are either wasted or completely violated. For more details, please consult the Youtube reviews from the likes of Red Letter Media and Confused Matthew. "},{"Title":"You might like this film if you are beyond reason","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" However, if you are reasonable, let me point out two ridiculous things that firmly set Star Trek in the area of fantasy rather then science fiction the Q continuum and time travel (the basis of this movie).Time travel is ridiculous in too many ways to count. The first of which is if it is possible where are the time travelers? If it were possible it would be the most devastating thing ever. The first group to invent it would go back in time to when everyone else was still bacteria and conquer the galaxy.The way the Borg would go about using their time travel technology is they would go back as far in time as possible and upload to the earlier hive mind their knowledge of time travel, futuristic technology, and enemy cultures. The Borg would then construct several more time machines and go back in time again with fleets of spheres and conquer the galaxy and then the universe.And if those points weren't enough, what makes the time travel in this film completely ridiculous is that by going back in time and meeting the humans of the past they would've completely altered the future and the entire structure of the federation and the Star Trek universe, but that didn't seem to happen.Additionally, this film completely ruined the Borg. In the Best of Both Worlds they seemed to be an irresistible force of nature, however, in this film the real identity of the Borg is revealed, they are actually a bunch of mindless idiotic zombie beings without any goals like perfection. And they have a queen too now, what is up with that? The queen serves no practical purpose and she has nothing to do with the Borg philosophy. She was just stuck in there as a plot device and to further transform the Borg into a silly joke, not to be taken seriously. In essence the Borg died with this film.And what the heck is the Borg queen doing talking? I thought the Borg were beyond that. Sound is an incredibly inefficient means of communication, it is slow, it cannot travel across long distances or across space (which raises the question of how do they hear external sounds on the enterprise? Do they have artificial sound?), it is hard to decipher, and you cannot transfer very much data with it. Therefore the Borg use more efficient mediums. Namely they use radio wave communication like what we use today with the Internet except they extended into interstellar space by using subspace channels.In conclusion if you intend to watch this film shut off your mind as a lack of critical thinking we make this film far more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Being the best TNG film...","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ...is really like being the Leper with the most fingers.Yes, First Contact lacks the awfulness that were Generations, Insurrection and Nemesis. And there are some good performances here.TNG was never the strongest Trek series. The original and Deep Space Nine were better. It did have the most likable cast, however, and it was always a joy to see them. The problem here, like all the TNG films, is that most of the drama focuses on Picard and Data, without the other characters getting a chance to shine.My other huge complaint with the film is that it assumes gross incompetence on the part of the Enterprise crew to get the story moving. Well, we have to lose half our ship (and crew) to the Borg before we actually start taking action against them. It was the kind of ineptitude we saw on Voyager and Enterprise week after week that drove the fans nuts. Thanks, Braga, you've done so much to cripple the franchise.Another sign that Braga is an idiot. In the first treatment, he wanted to make Zephram Cochran a woman because a)He was too stupid to realize Zephram was a guy's name, and 2) He hadn't realized that ZC had already been seen in the Original Series, which he never watched because it actually relied on things like character development and story. His original idea got distilled into the Alfre Woodard character.There's a lot of fun stuff in here to enjoy, but enough bad stuff to make it hard to love. "},{"Title":"Average Trek","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I wanted to like this Trek more than I actually did. It has the emotion and character interaction I love to see from Star Trek, but it seems dumbed down from a Sci-fi standpoint compared to the TV show. There are convenient plot contrivances that we are supposed to take for granted. Like when Picard knows exactly where to hit the Borg ship in the opening battle scene. The Borg, once a unique race, all united as one one collective, are given a queen in this movie, reducing them to the equivalent of an ant colony. Picard, usually such a calm, collected, concerned officer, is a revenge driven action hero type this time around. Also while the parts on the ship were fairly well done, in that they had tension, the scenes with Cochrane and the rest of the crew feel very awkward at times. The idea of time travel (once again) is taken far to lightly in comparison with the TV series. I also found it rushed at times. Despite all this I don't hate the film. It had some enjoyable character moments and was well acted for the most part. The action scenes with the Borg are appropriately eerie and suspenseful. It also boasts a superb score from the late, great Jerry Goldsmith. It's a half decent action movie but Trek works best when it has headier concepts to work with. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE KICKED ASS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  THIS WAS THE BEST STAR TREK MOVIE TO DATE.THE CREW WAS AWESOME IN THIS MOVIE. ESPECIALLY PICARD AND DATA. FIRST CONTACT IS PROBABLY ONE OF THE BEST SCI-FI MOVIES EVER MADE. IT IS AWESOME ON DVD. THERE IS ONE FLAW IN THE MOVIE WHEN THE ENTERPRISE RETURNS TO ITS OWN TIME,THE CREW USED THE DEFLECTOR-DISH TO GET HOME THEY COULD NOT USE IT BECAUSE WORF AND PICARD DESTROYED IT TO KEEP THE BORG FROM CONTACTING THE BORG IN THE DELTA QUADRANT. "}{"Title":"Blinded by fandom","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *spoilers*I don't understand why people liked this movie so much.  It broke so many rules.Other people pointed out that the Zefram Cochrane in this movie bares no resemblance to the original Zefram Cochrane from the original series in terms of character.  Why they did this is beyond me but it was lame and detracted from the movie.  Yes of course with Wrath of Kahn the same actor was alive but that's not my point.  Kahn in Wrath of Kahn acted like the same person from other original TV series.  Cochrane not at all.More stupid was the way they changed the Borg into just a normal enemy. What made the Borg so cool since they were first introduced in the series were that they were like robots, relentlessly coming to get you, no stopping them, no reasoning with them, they had a one track mind on top of which as they were all part of a larger brain it was impossible to negociate with them.Then in this movie they ruin all that wonderful difference by adding a Borg queen who is sexy, emotional and how can be seduced by Captain Picard.  So, no the Borg are no longer interesting, they are just like any other Star Trek race.  Once the Queen is added they become no different from Romulans, Klingons or Cardasseans.  Lame.Finally there was the let down of no battle.  The trailers showed Picard screaming THE LINE MUST BE DRAWN HERE! which just sounds so cool like he was going to kick so much booty but then in the movie we wait and wait and wait and how does it finally end?  Data punches a can.  Can you say ultimate anti climax?I wanted to like this movie.  I like Star Trek.  I loved the trailer but the actual movie just didn't deliver.6 of 10 "},{"Title":"Another time travel plot in Star Trek?","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this film in the theater, I found it thrilling, exciting, and any other positive emotions. There was great reason for this - the Borg! To see these ideologically threatening species on the big screen was a treat. However, as I became older, I realized that the film actually hurt the Borg. It made them look like two-dimensional villains who just want to plunder earthlings.In Star Trek The Next Generation, the Borg represented a distinct idea in Trek social theory. Whereas the Klingons were warriors who justified violence, the Cardassians with their pride and prejudice, the Federation with a League of Nations setup, the Borg consider sovereignty and individuality irrelevant. They are indeed utilitarian; The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few, or the one, much like Vulcan logic. Still, the Vulcans are more isolated. The Borg are a virus whose purpose is to simply perpetuate itself while evolving in the process.Why should the Borg have a queen? It is more interesting that the Borg communicate simultaneously to each other, like quantum mechanics, where a particle can occupy two vast distances at the same time. Jesuit philosopher Tielhard de Chardin thought of a separate level for consciousness called the noosphere. The Borg seem to be at this level of collective consciousness. Incredible. To have a film that compartmentalize the Borg to another Trek villain to defeat is an injustice to the Borg. There is so much to draw from them.Moreover, why another time travel scenario? Is Star Trek so keen on convoluting its own universe? (For instance, what happened to that Borg drone that was floating to space in the scene on the Enterprise E's deflector? Talk about not caring for consequences! The usual case in time travel stories!) What would that serve for storytelling? How about some more innovative ideas? Star Trek, thankfully, will cease that Enterprise mess. Enough franchise! Take a break - for a long time and let history see if Star Trek still carries that optimistic message of humanity, or even honor Gene Roddenberry. "},{"Title":"Plot holes abound.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Contains spoilers.As with so many other instalments of Trek this film had a lot of potential. As usual the potential is not realised. Apart from the uneasy mix of horror and humour (the relatively good Borg scenes followed by the awful stuff down at Cochrane's village) there are an abundance of plot holes.Unfortunately we get time travel again. This time the Borg can do it. If they possess this technology then surely they would have assimilated every planet in the galaxy already. Why travel all the way to Earth (in a single cube again) fight a battle, lose and then go back in time? Why not go back in time and then travel to Earth thus meeting no resistance on the way?Picard joins the battle after many ships are destroyed. Once on scene he tells the other ships where to fire at the cube. Surely he should have told Starfleet this vital information several years previously.How does Cochrane, almost single handedly, build a revolutionary new Starship in an old missile silo?Why are the Borg so dumb? They just let the humans walk around unmolested half the time as long as the humans don't act threateningly. I could understand this behaviour when they first encountered humans but surely they should have learned by now. They hardly even try to stop Worf and Picard from detaching the deflector dish.At the end of the film Data says he's able to recreate the manner in which the Borg time travel and the Enterprise returns to it's own time. This means that they can now time travel, at will, with little effort. Presumably they later pass this good news on to the rest of Starfleet.This film could have been so much better if they'd dispensed with the Time Travel and kept it gritty and realistic (for Trek anyway). BTW was anyone else underwhelmed by the opening credits music? "},{"Title":"If you can turn your brain off completely, it's watchable","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was recently subjected to this movie and although I'm typically fairly open to any sort of movie one thing of which I'm not very tolerant is plot holes.There has been many positive reviews of this film here at the IMDB, and I assume it's from Trekkies.  This review is not directed to that audience. The plot is essentially that the Borg attack Earth, and in typical Star Trek fashion the USS Enterprise just happens to be there to save the world ala Captain Kirk.  While the USS Enterprise is blasting the hell out of the Borg cube, a smaller ship escapes, and travels back in time to take over the Earth in the past.  Of course the USS Enterprise gets sucked into the time vortex in hot pursuit.While you are watching this you may wonder, like I did, why the Borg, having the ability to travel backward in time, would ever bother to attack any civilization when it's in a technologically advanced state.  It is apparently because you can make any claptrap plot and as long as there are some sound bites and mindless action and has Star Trek characters in it, that a sufficient number of people will watch it to justify the cost of the production.If you can turn your brain off for the duration of the film, and you like Star Trek you might be able to enjoy it.  It's mindless action at times and when it's not, it's dull and boring.  Paradoxically, this appears to be the BEST film out of the Next Generation series - yes, that high pitched whir you hear at the cemetery where Gene Roddenberry is buried is him spinning in his grave.If you've never seen any of the older films, watch #2 if you want something that has a reasonably strong plot or #1 if you want something that is about the majesty of space.  What Star Trek has become and what it started out being are nearly unconnected at this point. "},{"Title":"Good star trek flick...","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  1st watched 3/19/1997 - 6 out of 10 (Dir-Jonathon Frakes) Good star trek flick, 1st with Pacard and crew at helm throughout the whole movie.  Very action filled despite the usual slow-moving series that the characters come from. Not being a trekkie it takes me a while to enjoy these movies, but I usually do before it's over. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm, not bad but....","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what you guys liked so much about this movie.First of all i would like to say that i'm a ST fan and i've taped 80% of all the episodes of Next Generation.And every single one was 10 times better that this movie.For one thing i would of never allowed Data to have that emotion chip,he is becoming too human(not good).My ranking of this movie is 6/10 because i liked the ship fights at the beginning and other scenes in the movie.But the idea of going in the past was way boring... The best movie with the borg was Episode #42 (Q,Who),were the Enterprise first encounters the borg. "},{"Title":"*yawn* Another borg story","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Some good F/X, but all in all a mundane addition to the previous trek movies. The overdone borg return yet again. It was time to let the borg die long before this film, they were a one time villain and are very poor enemies.Lets go over the beginning, the flagship of the federation is no where near a battle with the borg (uh, ok) and decide to disobey orders and join the fighting. Picard takes command of the fleet after the convenient death of the admiral in charge.Worf is brought into the story by piloting the defiant (with no Sisko, Dax or other member of the senior staff with him, how much would it have cost to give them a cameo? again another uh, ok) The fleet destroys the borg ship. (remember when that used to be hard?) Which lauches a second spherical ship that goes back in time. Immediatly the earth changes to a borg infested planet.. the reason the Enterprise wasn't effected by the timeline changes was a temperal wake (oh, please) and they must save the future by going into the past.Of course, what results is a predictable story slaughter the borg, win the game. With some good effects, and a good subplot concerning data and the borg queen, but just very overdone. "},{"Title":"A far cry from Generations","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Generations being the best Star Trek film so far, First Contact was a far cry from that gem, but still a good film.Patrick Stewart, who acted so brilliantly in Generations, became melodramatic here. His verbal battle with Lily about whether or not to blow up the Enterprise was wholly overacted and down right silly.In the TV series, the Borg were so impossible to defeat in battle and yet, Picard simply said, Fire on these co-ordinates, and the Borg craft was destroyed - much too easy!I also didn't like Troi getting drunk. The beauty of the crew of TNG was in their rectitude of conduct. Such silly, unnecessary behaviour while the crew was interacting with Cochrane and company!Data was able to turn off his emotions chip in the film. How come? In Generations, he obviously wasn't able to. When his emotions went haywire, he demanded that Dr. Crusher remove the chip.Besides some good action (though nothing close to the crash sequence or the battle with Lursa and Betor in Generations), what I liked about First Contact was the great job done in the make up of the Borg. The queen was effectively slimy and sinister.In conclusion, First Contact was a good film but not a great one.  "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as everyone seems to think it is","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" So there! Sure, I'll elaborate if you like. This is basically the T.V story the Best of Both Worlds, to which it elicits unfavourable comparisons fused with Star Trek IV and isn't a patch on either of those. The previous Trek suffered from poor pacing, not a problem here - just the opposite in fact, if anything the damn thing all moves along too fast. It's a film terrified to pause for breath in case the easily distracted fall asleep. I'd have preferred a bit of build up to the initial Borg attack, something of a proper introduction to the new ship - some character building scenes including ones which conveyed a real idea of who and what the Borg were but I suppose that might alienate those all important casual viewers who have every right to effect the shape of these movies as they don't care about the T.V series at all and probably have never bothered to watch it. There's an interesting irony you may want to ponder for a while. Anyway, back to the film and the use of the Borg as villains. First Contact dilutes the best enemies a starship captain ever had. The very thing that made the Borg frightening was that they were a monolithic force of technology enhanced destruction faceless and motiveless, aside from they're desire to add you and your culture to their collective consciousness - committed space Marxists you might say. Writers Braga and Moore succumb to the old and tired movie doctrine that the hero must face a single, identifiably human villain and so we have the creation of the Borg queen - great entrance, bad idea. Suddenly the Borg aren't faceless and equally interconnected, as the T.V series established to great effect but a mindless army controlled by a sinister independent mastermind. Their original focus on assimilation rather than conventional conquest made them a formidable nightmare on screen but here they've become mere drones, executing the Queen's insidious plot to overthrow the Earth. Also, in a bid to rope in those all important non-fans, the action is considerably beefed up here prompting an out of character transformation for Patrick Stewart's Captain Picard. The diplomat and explorer of the T.V series is replaced by a clone who machine guns Borg like a 24th century version of Bruce Willis, coldly shoots colleagues and goes into wild tantrums, smashing glass cabinets and the like. Poor old Mr.Stewart is being asked to be a kind of Captain McClane and just isn't up to it, reduced to some wild and embarrassing hamming and some ill-advised overacting.Anyone who sat through 170 odd episodes of the old show knows this isn't how the Captain conducts business. This isn't a particularly well executed actioner either because Frakes is no John McTernian or even, bless 'im, Renny Harlin. He may have borrowed from Aliens and numerous other sci-fi gunfests but this is still shot like a television episode and it all makes for diverting but so-so viewing. Given the promise offered by the Borg in the television series and the possibilities allowed by an increased budget, First Contact shows a distinct poverty of imagination and ambition which nevertheless transformed itself into box office success - no doubt due to those aforementioned casual viewers. I doubt very much whether Gene Rodenberry would have liked it at all. "},{"Title":"Alien 5 - The Alternate Universe","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If someone asked me what Star Trek is all about I would tell him to go see First Contact - and he knew what it is NOT about. A dumb action flick, aimed at the masses, nothing more. What I expect from Star Trek are intelligent, twisted stories, a good plot driven by the characters. There are many, many TNG episodes that I'd rather have seen on the big screen than this. (Preferably the Brannon Braga ones - this guy rules.) "}{"Title":"Needed to be better, with more of a sense of resistance","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Apparently, resistance is futile.  Paramount is content to just sit back and let the specialized few run the business, while the fans call for something more.  Obviously there should be some middle ground, but staying to the far right is always a bad idea.  I thought it wasn't even close to Trek ideals. Good effects, good dialog - but totally implausible, with a bad replacement for the character of Zephran Cochran (see how the TOS character acted and compare), and terrible lack of introduction to the new Enterprise.  I was highly disappointed to see another Revenge-Trek (ala The Wrath of Khan). All Good Things... ranks as ten times better than this film in terms of thinking out what is happening. "},{"Title":"Many weak points...","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie several times at this point, and each time I see it I notice more of its weaknesses. Pacing is terrible in this film -- plot points that should take a minute or two go on for much longer (e.g. disengaging the magnetic shield to prevent the Borg from communicating, this scene goes on and on and on), and stuff that should be emphasized flashes by in a blip (e.g. the scene with Picard deciding the fate of the Enterprise).Someone else noted that the Borg are part biological, part machine. That point was respected with the Borg queen dying, but not with the Borg setting up the transmitter in space -- their flesh would have been frozen and destroyed by the vacuum.And maybe it's just me, but I found the whole Zephram Cochrane subplot so cheesy it was embarrassing -- the way he behaved (a rocket scientist? Suuuurreee...), Deanna Troi getting drunk, the music... it all feels adolescent and ridiculous. The Vulcan coming out of the ship at the end and his first words being Live Long and Prosper (that's supposed to be a goodbye, not a hello!).To summarize -- in my opinion, this film is the most overrated Star Trek movie ever made. I believe the most underrated to be the new director's cut of Star Trek The Motion Picture. If you haven't seen the latest version of that one on DVD, I'd recommend a rental and skip this entirely... unless you're a *huge* TNG fan you're not missing much. "},{"Title":"Star Trek First Sellout","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've never liked this entry in the long-running series, though I've seen it many times. One time I watched it on ABC, where it was claimed that this is the movie that would make anybody a Trekkie. Largely that's true this is a glossy, superficial, cheesy and dull actioner that's the furthest a Star Trek movie has been from the original vision.After destroying the Enterprise-D in the lackluster (but superior) Generations, our crew has been given the state-of-the-art Enterprise-E. When the Borg, a race of cybernetic beings who want to assimilate humankind, start a war with the Federation, the Enterprise-E, the best defense against the Borg, is assigned to monitor the Romulan Neutral Zone. But Captain Picard breaks orders and destroys a Borg cube. The Borg then go back in time to assimilate Earth, so our crew enters the temporal wake to stop them.Back in the 21st century, they have to make sure that drunkard Zefram Cochran makes first contact with Vulcans. The 21st-century characters are really annoying, both the vulgar Cochran and the aggressive, foul-mouthed Lily Sloane.Meanwhile, the crew still aboard the Enterprise has to contend with the Borg, who have hijacked engineering and kidnapped Data.There are many poor attempts at humor here. It just doesn't work. Additionally, the film often lags, especially the Enterprise scenes. The filmmakers can never seem to get straight what exactly the Borg's capabilities are. Are they organic or synthetic? They can survive in space but not being blown up?Worf returns and we get a glimpse of DS9's Defiant, but the scene of him entering the bridge is one of the most cringe-worthy parts. But the scenes with Data and the Borg Queen surely almost approach it. Also, Lily seems all too willing to reference Moby Dick, though she hadn't read it.The most compelling thing here is supposed to be Picard's internal personal anger toward the Borg, similar to Khan's toward Kirk in the second entry. But this aspect is skimmed over and replaced with violence. And there's plenty of violence here eye gouging, neck breaking, limb severing, shootdowns, skin melting and other gruesome stuff added for the name of marketability.And Riker and Troi defy the prime directive. What's with that? "},{"Title":"The worst of all the films!","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Anyone who liked this film couldn't possibly have seen the original episode Metamorphosis where the character of Zefraim Cochrane was originated. This movie blasphemes his character and reputation. I hate it when writers have no respect for the history of the series. It's as if it was written by committee - let's put in a chase scene here, a Borg fight there, lot's of special effects - nobody cares about story or continuity. Not only is there a lack of continuity with the original series, but whole Next Generation story lines have disappeared - like Troi and Worf being romantically involved. This movie was worse than Star Trek 5! "},{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Only 'Star Trek' could take a concept like this and make it so dull. When you have an invading force of cybernetic zombies attacking  a spaceship, you only have to imagine a combination of 'Aliens' and 'Night of the Living Dead' to see how good it could have been. Alas, no. The Cybermen (sorry, Borg) were reduced to ambling, aimless stooges with about as much menace as as they have originality. Meanwhile our cardboard crew were whittling away the running time getting involved in all manner of japes that failed to impress or excite any interest.Even a 'Hellraiser'ish Queen did nothing to distract from the crushing despair of just having paid another five quid to see a dead turkey plucked repetitively for two hours.To hell with it. And any further 'Treks'.  "},{"Title":"I found First Contact to be the most overrated Trek film ever!","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As much as I like The Next Generation television show, I found their movies to be nothing more than extended episodes of the television show. Generations was nothing more but a real series finale for the show. First Contact was nothing more but a continuation of the cliffhanger, Best of Both Worlds, Insurrection was just another bad episode of the show with a bigger budget, and Nemesis was another attempt at ripping off earlier better movies.I enjoyed the special effects in First Contact, and I liked the acting, but I found the storyline, especially weak. The ending, involving destroying plasma coolants in the engineering department was one of the weakest science fiction endings ever. The crew could have shot them at the beginning to avoid all the headaches. Instead we get two hours of jumbled action, and over the top performances. I'm sorry, but I didn't enjoy this film as much as some other people did.I found First Contact to be nothing more than a remake of The Best Of Both Worlds with a very weak side plot regarding a drunken Zephram Cochrane, and one of the weakest endings in Trek history, which is Data destroying the plasma coolants and killing all of the borg, despite the borg having taken over half of the ship. It was equally implausible and ridiculous at the same time. Thank goodness, Paramount finally moved away from those awful TNG films and went back to the TOS film series with JJ Abrams new Star Trek TOS film being the biggest Trek film of all time that is the first Oscar winner.Also, this had the WEAKEST ending of the entire Trek series! (The borg are convenitely killed in engineering after they have taken over half of the ship, WEAK!) "},{"Title":"What an awful movie....","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This has to be the lamest movie ever. The script is weak and the jokes are just for trekkies. The acting is wooden and the story is (in Star Trek terms) very very unoriginal. It's nothing that couldn't of been done in an episode.  In short...don't bother with this tat. "},{"Title":"A REALLY BAD MOVIE!!!!","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'M SORRY TO SAY THIS BUT FIRST CONTACT WAS TERRIBLE!! PATRICK STEWART CAN'T ACT I THINK JOHN TRAVOLTA NEEDS TO TAKE OVER AS THE CPT. I WOULDN'T RECOMMEND THIS TRASH TO ANYONE!!!!! "},{"Title":"This movie was not that great..","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Almost everyone is acting like this is the greatest Trek movie ever made. Why? The story line wasn't original in the slightest. Sure, there was action, but none of it was breath taking. The battle between Enterprise and Reliant in Star Trek 2 was far more exciting than anything here. Picard finally got a little physical in this movie, but he's no Kirk. In the next movie, Insurrection, Picard is supposed to be even more physical and disobedient than this one. Hmmmm...wonder why? Could it be because the writers are trying to make Picard more like Kirk? I definitely think so. Forget the next generation, bring back Kirk and company! I want to see another real Star Trek movie!  "},{"Title":"ZzZzZzZzZzZzZzZ... (Could contain some spoilers)","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love Sci-Fi. I love the original Star Trek series. I love all the movies starring the cast of the original series (yes, I like The Final Frontier). But, despite thinking Patrick Stewart is a great actor, I never was able to endure an entire episode of The Next Generation. It never appealed to me, and I never knew why... till this week.In the same week, thanks to a tape trading store, I've seen two Next Generation movies Generations and First Contact.Both stunk.I only saw Generations because William Shatner was in it, and I expected to enjoy at least the bits with Kirk (and Scotty and Chekov, it was great to see the three of them in the opening scene). But the whole thing looked like a bad TV-movie, and the writing was horrid Kirk was sadly under-used, Picard did A Christmas Carol (he did it again for TV in 1999 under that title), and that bad Spock-wannabe called Data (I think I'll hate him forever) did Ned Flanders on something. So cheesy that it would be the wet dream of a mouse.Then, why to catch First Contact? Well, it was either this one or First Knight or Waterworld, and I had already seen these and you can understand I was not very interested in adding them to my collection. So I said what the hell, I want to get rid of this damn Meatcleaver Massacre tape, so let's get this one. Well, as a pro I'll have to say that it's not as corny as Generations, and Data is not as annoying, but the big con is First Contact is so booooooooooooring! Maybe I'd need to see the TNG episodes with the Borgs (what an obvious name... will somebody argue that it comes from CY-Borgs?), but I almost fell asleep. Picard does Bogart, then he does Moby Dick (he did it again for TV in 1998 under that title). James Cromwell's scientist is unbelievably corny (unforgettable the moment when he almost makes the rocket stop because he doesn't find... his r'n'r HEXAGONAL CD!). Then the rip-offs does anybody else get remembered of Back to the Future in the scene where Riker and Geordi talk Cromwell about the future and his relevance as a scientist? And of Indiana Jones in the Temple of Doom in the ending when Data acts as he's been turned into a Borg, only to help Picard to defeat the Borg Queen? And the plot holes if Picard was once made into a Borg, and was de-Borgized (what an ugly invention of a word, sorry), why isn't he able to de-Borgize (sorry again) the absorbed members of his crew, and keeps shooting them? (Maybe the answer is in the TV-series, but really, I'm not very interested in finding out). The writing, of course, was horrid and full of bad humor (Borg? It sounds Danish), and needless to say that the effects were CGI and LOOKED like CGI (I hate them, I'm very partial to traditional effects, now sadly inexistent in Filmland, thanks to Mr. Luca$).They don't have Star Trek Insurrection in the store, so I doubt I'll see it or anything remotely connected to The Next Generation, at least inmediately (maybe on TV if there is nothing more interesting). I'll let die-hard Trekkies rave with all this stuff, and watch my old Original Series tapes again.And no, the Khan in my name doesn't come from Khan Noonien Singh. "}{"Title":"Not a bad movie, but it's not TREK.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can enjoy virtually any movie.  All it takes is being in the right frame of mind.  Unfortunately, I went into this movie expecting a Star Trek movie, not Aliens with the TNG crew. From the beginning, Star Trek The Next Generation, took the ideals of the original series (a future where mankind is more or less at peace, where our main focus is exploration and learning rather than war) to a new level. This movie, though, embraces the classic science fiction future, where mankind is always struggling to survive in a war.  In THIS case, the war is against a ruthless enemy who has determined that by going back in time to destroy Earth, it can win its war.That's not a bad concept, and in fact, if someone had just told me the plot, I'd've run to see this movie.  HOWEVER, I came to see this movie because  it was Star Trek, and if I hadn't gotten my tickets for free (and therefore, my protests were virtually meaningless), I'd've walked out of the theater. "}]