[{"Title":"A gag a second","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"25 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  From the same mold as the Naked Gun series, Spy Hard stars everyone's favorite bumbling hero Leslie Nielson as a not-so-secret agent, WD-40, who stumbles his way through another slampooning  chaotic comic story. Sniping at everything from Speed to Home Alone and built around the James Bond flicks, Spy Hard features lots of babes and bunches of bit part celebs with nonstop gags and off-the-wall humor. Only for those who are into wacky for the sake of wacky. (C+) "},{"Title":"Funny spy-themed spoof with Weird Al in opening theme","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I caught 'Spy Hard' on television the other night, and the film really took me back to the early 1990s. I noticed Weird Al right away from his part singing the theme song. 'Spy Hard's' purpose is to create a comical version of James Bond and similar spy-themed films. Some of the comedy is very funny, but some of it wears thin throughout the film. (You'll either enjoy the sense of humour, or you will hate it.) WD40 is a great name for the secret agent, and Mr. T even makes an appearance. There is also a lot of adult-themed humour. By the end of the film, I was ready for it to be finished. It's funny, but it's not brilliant, but I cannot complain because it did let me laugh. If you like Austin Powers, you will probably like this, even though it is not as popular. It will also take you right back to the early 1990s. Not a perfect film, it does have some good humour. "},{"Title":"Not One Of Leslie's Best","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I've seen a few of Leslie Nielsen's spoof movies that were, indeed, funny for the most part such as his role as Dracula or in the takeoff of The Fugitive. However, this one - a parody of the James Bond film - just didn't have the quality or quantity of belly laughs, or laughs at all. It relies too much on slapstick and tired, overused jokes. To be fair, there are some funny scenes and parodies of other films but just not enough of them. The best part of the movie may have been the opening credits, which was an excellent takeoff on the memorable Bond openings.I also thought they overdid the irreverence on the convent scene. It's typical Hollywood in which nuns and priests are portrayed as the opposite of what they are supposed to be (nuns with machine guns and disrespectful language??! Let's not overdo the satire.)Well, at least it wasn't boring and it's wasn't overly long at just 81 minutes. "},{"Title":"Average fare but some good moments","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  The dopey, deadpan character sculptured by Leslie Nielsen is back in a James Bond-esque comedy as agent WD 40. There are more gag misfires in this movie, than a parking lot full of dead batteries. However, he's such a likeable guy, you can make it over the hump.Unfortunately, with the exit of the mad geniuses (The Zucker Bros. & Jim Abrahms), there's little here in this script to wave the pom-poms about. It's all been done too many times before.Of honourable mention is a priceless, very quick cameo with Pat Morita, which is an absolute gem. There are other assorted scenarios that came off well, too. See it if you must on a rainy Sunday, but this is pretty old, borrowed and blue.  "},{"Title":"I just love this movie.","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  	Although I am a big Leslie Nielsen fan, you don't have to even know who he is to laugh hysterically at this one.  First of all, I love the feel of this movie. The Secret Service headquarters is just full of secret crannies where weirdos are hiding. Especially the director's office. You always find something goofy hidden in there. 	In addition to Nielsen's trademark spotlight-stealing sight gags, there are many subtle insults, including the use of the Disney Animation Studio façade as the establishing exterior shot of the Agency headquarters (you can see the Seven Dwarfs in the architecture), and the fact that Agent 3.14, in addition to her number being pi, speaks with a huge French accent, even though she's Russian. I particularly love the character of Coleman. I always laugh when he sees the Rancor tape and utters a Bostonese Gooed Gwad!. 	The characters are great in this. There is Steele's trusty sidekick Kabul (who has a different car in every scene), and Andy Griffith is an excellent villain. One of the best parts of this movie is Weird Al Yankovic's opening title song (spoofing Thunderball's).For goodness' sakes, rent it if you haven't seen it yet. WATCH FOR THOSE CAMEOS! "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  I don't see how anyone can not like this just a little bit. Sure it's not the greatest film in the world, but it still does justice to the spoof genre, which so many films have tried to do but failed (think Scary Movie (the 1st one, not the other 2, they were decent)).It's not as good as the Naked Gun trilogy or Airplane, and it does recycle a few gags from there (Scary Movie 3 did this). They do this so that people who haven't seen the other films still get a variety of jokes from the other films.The opening sequence is one of the best opening sequences I have seen in ages. They should definitely do more films like this film. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Genuinely funny film starring the one and only!","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I've seen that this film has got mostly bad reviews on this website, and i heard that at the time of this movies release, it didn't do well in the box office and was also poorly received, in my opinion though, they are ALL wrong!This is a great film, you can clearly see that it tries to live up to the great heights of the Naked Gun series, and it has a real go at it, but seriously, what will ever beat The Naked Gun, in comedy anyway...?There are lots of good gags in the film but i'm not going to spoil it for you, just buy the DVD (VHS if your old fashioned!) and find them out for yourself, it will be worth it believe me!I would recommend this to any Leslie Neilson fan (like me!) or anyone needing a good laugh....8/10 "},{"Title":"funny but not his best","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This movie is pretty funny, it's not Leslie Nielsen's best though.  Some parts of this movie are just plain dumb, but that's the point.  It's actually a pretty funny movie that I enjoyed watching and will maybe enjoy again.  Charles Durning and Barry Bostwick are funny together.  Marcia Gay Harden is funny too.  And of course, Leslie Nielsen, he's funny in this film but not funnier than some of his other films.  If you like this kind of comedy, and Leslie Nielsen then you'd like this.  But if you're looking for a funnier film with Nielsen, than rent another one like dracula or any of the naked gun movies, airplane is always good too. "},{"Title":"'Spy Hard' isn't a very good film, but it's quite hilarious at times","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Spy Hard General Rancor is threatening to destroy the world with a missile he is hiding at his secret base. But to complete his goal, he needs a special computer chip, invented by the scientist Prof. Ukrinsky. Special Agent Dick Steele is assigned to the case, in order to prevent the worst. He teams up with Ukrinsky's daughter Veronique, who happens to be a KGB agent.Cast Includes... Leslie Nielson and Andy Griffith.'Spy hard' is basically Naked Gun 4 with different character names and less laughs. Spy hard veers off course and Dick Steele travels to so many different locations that we lose track and don't end up caring. So, In the end, 'Spy Hard' does have some quality laughs but doesn't live up to any of Nielson's other spoofs.2.5/4 PG13- crude/sexual humor and some comic, fake violence. "},{"Title":"Was a Little Bit Let Down","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" When I rented this the other day I was thinking how funny this was going to be. I was comparing this to other Leslie Neilsen films such as The Naked Gun films, Airplane, Mr.Magoo, and Scary Movie 3. I was surprised. Don't get me wrong the film was funny in certain points, just not the large amount of laughs you get from the Naked Gun. Neilsen uses the same antics from The Naked Gun, which is good if the film is just as funny, but it does not match up. The funniest part in the film is the bike flashback, and the convent. If you like Leslie Neilsen rent it, but don't be let down like I was. I watched this with my five year old cousin, and it was appropriate for him. This movie was overrated by the MPAA.PG-13 for Language and a brief scene of sex. "}{"Title":"Nielsen continuing the formula, now like a crazed international Agent","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Leislie Nielsen again,he plays a Agent Dick Steele finding in retirement ,he's called for a new mission.He'll fight against General Raucov(Andy Griffith) for world ruling and being only helped by a beautiful spy(Nicolette Sheridan). The picture is the usual spoof or parody featured by Nielsen with similar lunatic characters, quirky personages and strange elements of the predecessors ,thus is surrealist,hilarious,extreme and sometimes gross-out.There're gags each fifty seconds.The film is constituted by innumerable comics set pieces and a myriad of unimaginative parodies where the wacky humor and laughters are continuous. The pioneers of these comedies are trio ZAZ(Jim Abrahams,Jerry Zucker,David Zucker) but here the formula is a little worn-out.The amusement and fun is the finding out the numerous cinematographic references that successively appear,as are  the main title of ¨James Bond¨,¨In the line of fire¨(Nielsen making of Clint Eastwood),¨Pulp Fiction'(as Travolta),¨Sister Act¨(as nun alike Woopy Goldberg),¨Speed',¨True Lies¨,¨Die Hard¨,¨Home Alone,Dennis the Menace¨(where acts the same kid Mason Gamble) and ¨Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid¨in which making of Paul Newman and with his cycle plays a scene under Burt Bacharach music with smile to roar with laughter . Besides there are cameos and special interventions as Pat Morita(recently deceased),Mr.T(as A Team member),Alexandra Paul(Baywatch),Hulk Hogan,Robert Culp,Fabio.. The motion picture will like to absurd and unruly comedy enthusiastic. "},{"Title":"well at least you can see Miss Sheridan","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This movie is missing something , Like George Kennedy it could have worked  but for some reason it did not deliver. It the perfect movie to watch when you are  sick or bedridden. "},{"Title":"Hit but mostly miss spoof     ** 1/2  out of *****","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I am a huge Leslie Nielsen Fan, I find his deadpan delivery hilarious, and count The Naked Gun Trilogy among my Favourite Movies, but this Hit and mostly miss spoof, is pretty dire in comparison.The Zucker Brothers & Pat Proft are sorely missed here as this was written by Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer the two responsible for raping my senses with some dire spoofs namely Date Movie, Epic Movie & Disaster Movie - Having seen most of their slapdash spoofs I have to say that 'Spy Hard' is their best, though that's not saying a great deal, I actually remember watching this at my local theater when it first came at the tender age of 11 or 12 and at the time I remember thinking this was great, my taste in the quality of Films has improved in the years since.This is effectively a Bond Movie spoof capitalising on the fact that Bond made a comeback the year before, but this is pretty dire stuff and the only reason to watch this is for Nielen's performance but this is really below him.There isn't really a coherent plot it's just a slapdash effort spoofing other films including Home Alone & Speed (1994) which has Ray Charles driving a bus, yes I get it he's blind...funny stuff, NOT! and it's really scraping the barrel with cameos by Hulk Hogan & Mr. T.Andy 'Matlock' Griffith is not only slumming it but hamming up to ridiculous proportions... In the Naked Gun Trilogy, yeah the bad guys were tongue in cheek, but Griffith is painful and worst off all totally unfunnyexample of 'JOKES'Agent 3.14 Have a nice flight, and I wish you adieu Dick Steele Thank you, but I am quite satisfied with the do I have. OH GOD!! How hilariously...unfunny....can't believe I liked this even when I was 12.It gets a 5 from me purely because Nielsen saves it from being a completely unwatchable Disaster. "},{"Title":"Nielsen proves that we all get old","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  SPOILERSOne of the saddest sights in cinema is when a likable actor produces vastly inferior work as a result of growing old. In Spy Hard, we are shown that sadly Leslie Nielsen has befallen this fate. Starting in the 1950's with Ransom! and Forbidden Planet (both 1956), Nielsen would eventually become a king of the slapstick comedy. Staring in television's Police Squad (1982), and eventually evolving this idea into the brilliant series of Naked Gun films (1988, 1991 and 1994), Nielsen appeared to be on a role. Sadly however, only two years after that third outing as Frank Drebin, Nielsen produced this amusing, but awkward spoof of the Spy film.In Spy Hard, Leslie Nielsen plays Dick Steele (codename Agent WD-40). Coming out of retirement to fight his long term adversary General Rancor (Andy Griffith), Steele encounters the daughter of his lost love and a beautiful Russian Agent who he slowly falls for.Spy Hard does have the potential to be brilliant. With Weird Al Yankovic providing the Bond copying opening soundtrack, it sets off to a nice start. It soon drops off though, until it reaches a disappointing finale which grates on the skin.Whilst Yankovic might add to the movie, as does Nicolette Sheridan's delectable Russian Agent, the flaws with this outing are vast and numerous in comparison to it's positives. The character of Rancor is just irrelevant and dumb, the occasional famous cameo (Hulk Hogan, Mr T, Dr Joyce Brothers) is stuck in randomly and badly to give the audience an extra moment of happiness, whilst the spoof of Miss Moneypenny (entitled Miss Cheevus) is overwritten and placed as an unexplained traitor. In the end of the day however, these points could perhaps of been overlooked if Nielsen had simply been ten years younger.For the leading Spy, who is expected to sleep with countless beautiful women, to be an obviously aged fifty year old feels almost offensive. This isn't meant to be some sort of ageist comment (yes in this world of excessive Political Correctness, ageist IS a word), it's simply a fact. Nielsen looks slow and knackered and positively farcical in this role. Perhaps, just perhaps, this is meant to be a spoof of Bond in it's own right, implying that when men like Sean Connery can reprise the role at an old age the series looses respect. Ultimately however, this does seem unlikely and it seems more predictable that Nielsen simply wanted to play the lead part. If this is the case, I'm sorry Leslie, but it's time you retire with what little grace and dignity that you have left.In summary, Spy Hard could have been good. There are one or two very nice lines in there, with some thrown in movie tributes as well, ultimately however it collapses on it's face. It's not the worst spoof ever created, but with Nielsen leading the way, it's not that far off.  "},{"Title":"Watch the First 10 Minutes and Then Leave Quietly.","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" A wonderful beginning highlighted by Weird Al Yankovic's hilarious theme song (poking fun at the James Bond series' introductions) is not near enough to save this typical dumb waste. Government agent Leslie Nielsen is trying to save the day, the girl and eliminate world threat Andy Griffith (!?) forever. Cameos and a seemingly unending group of film parodies will bore the audience very quickly. Nielsen, still searching for a home-run on par with Airplane! or The Naked Gun, continues to embarrass himself with material that is way (and I do mean way) beneath his talent. In short, go spy somewhere else. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Uneven, not unbearable.","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  It's good-natured enough to be inoffensive, Leslie Nielsen seems to be in pretty good form and Nicollette Sheridan is an absolute knockout! But it lacks freshness almost completely; the material is rehashed, featuring a high amount of obviousness, and some of the references to other films (In The Line Of Fire, Pulp Fiction) seem extremely arbitrary. (**) "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Spy Hard is non-stop belly laughs from beginning to end! There is so much to love about this comedy! (Besides Dracula, Dead and Loving It, this is our favorite film starring Leslie Nelsen!) This is one of the few comedies we watch again and again and we always seem to catch something we've never noticed before! Charles Durning and Barry Boswick co-star and are hilarious! (Barry's New England accent is beyond funny!) Wonderful Andy Griffith as the evil enemy is fantastic! He is ever-so creepy - and funny! John Ales (as Kabul) is great! The story and editing is clever and fast-paced. There isn't a dull moment in the entire movie! P.S. Check out Agent WD-40's (Leslie Nielsen) great wall of photos in his living room; he is pictured as working security with many famous and historical people! Just another hilarious moment in this awesome comedy! P.P.S. LOVE Weird Al's theme - what a great way to open and close this classic comedy! Weird Al has the PERFECT sense of humor to set the stage for this hilarious film! "},{"Title":"Friedberg-Seltzer involved in a somewhat watchable film? I am shocked!","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Written by Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer(talentless hacks as far as I am concerned) and directed by Rick Friedberg, even with the major flaws Spy Hard is not a bad movie. I will admit I was expecting it to be a lot worse, you see Friedberg and Seltzer directed Disaster Movie and Epic Movie which are two of the worst movies ever made, Meet the Spartans which fares little better and Date Movie and Vampires Suck while lame was the best of the lot(I have to re watch the Scary Movie flicks). So I was expecting something unwatchable.So I was surprised at how moderately entertaining Spy Hard was. It does have its problems I agree. The story is predictable and rather rushed in the pace not helped by its scant length. The direction is also not the best, sometimes it is efficient but at other times it is patchy. But the worst part of Spy Hard is the juvenile and often unfunny dialogue which shows Friedberg and Seltzer's weaknesses for writing as well as directing.That said, despite the bad dialogue at times, there are some funny sight gags and the references to the spy genre weren't too obvious and fun to spot. The film doesn't look like direct-to-video fodder either, which is a good thing. The editing mayn't be the best, but when it comes to the sets, costumes, gadgetry and some of the photography it is pretty spot on. The soundtrack is reminiscent in style to a James Bond outing such as For Your Eyes Only, and while I am not a fan of that particular score the music was fun to listen to here and I liked its style. The acting compared to any of the films Friedberg and Seltzer directed is pretty good, Leslie Nielson is great when funny and he is rather here with a fun enough character. This performance is far from his best such as Airplane and Naked Gun, but at least he didn't embarrass himself as badly as he did when he did 2001A Space Travesty. Charles Durning and Nicolette Sheridan are decent too and there are some interesting cameos from Robert Culp and Fabio.Overall, surprisingly watchable compared to the clap-trap I was expecting. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Mores misses than hits","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I love this kind of movie - parodies. All the way from Kentucky Fried Movie to Meet The Spartans, I'm a huge fan of the genre, despite some real turkeys amongst them.Leslie Nielsen is THE FACE of parody movies. Despite a great movie as young actor (Forbidden Planet), it's really because of comedies that he is well known. He knows how to play the character straight-faced and has great timing. Hell, just looking at his face makes me laugh. But his success largely depends on the screen writing. With ZAZ, they were a comical dream team. In the case of Spy Hard, a parody of James Bond movies (as well as many others), the result is very uneven. I'll say this the jokes were mostly good, but the plot was terrible. If this was a series of sketches a la Kentucky Fried Movie, it would be much better.So I'll tell you what to expect - absurdity, silliness and laughs. If you like this type of movie, go for it. Unfortunately it just isn't good enough to be put on the same level as the better parodies out there.It's nice fun for a lazy afternoon, but not memorable by any means.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Spy Hard","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" If the names Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer don't ring a bell, perhaps their directorial efforts for films such as Vampires Suck, Disaster Movie, Meet the Spartans, Epic Movie and Date Movie may be more familiar with just how consistently bad they were, following a rote formula of making fun of genre film franchises that somehow wasn't really funny, with more misses than hits with their gags. That formula also states to chalk up a long list of impersonators and to lampoon everything that's pop culture at the moment, and to string a series of bad gags to make up what's essentially some semblance of a story, not.But it wasn't all that bad to begin with. Early in their career they're responsible for writing the Scary Movie franchise, and made their debut with writing Spy Hard, a film that starred the late Leslie Nielsen, and I suppose back then there was enough budget for the filmmakers to hire bona fide stars such as Ray Charles, Hulk Hogan, the male model Fabio, Mr T and even the late Pat Morita of Karate Kid's Mr Miyagi fame, before the flops spell out the hiring of impersonators (no offense to the profession) since I would believe the stars wouldn't want to go touch these productions with a ten foot pole given a regressing track record.I've always associated Leslie Nielsen with his better known Naked Gun series, and while his brand of comedy had gone beyond detective Frank Drebin, somehow Nielsen is quite the enigma, and becomes a character in his own right no matter what role he gets to play. Cue the signature blank stares, the innuendos and the physical slapstick comedy that he's perfected, that you'll know you're in for a hoot no matter how bad the story is. Here his Agent WD-40 aka Dick Steele (OK, so here's the cat out of the bag for friends who wonder why Dick Steel was a handle I used - dropping the last e in Steele for more bite during my online gaming days) is the quintessential spoof-Bond, with mysterious charisma and suave to win over the femme fatales, and gets the job done with questionable, unorthodox methods.Yes, I suppose one of the easiest way to spoof a film or a franchise is to set the sights on James Bond. After all, we have Johnny English and Austin Powers to come after this, so there's plenty of room actually for more of such wannabes who have their equivalent of a theme song, here performed in hilarious fashion and easily one of the best sequences here with a Weird Al Yankovic contribution full of inane lyrics, and keep a close eye on those gyrating silhouettes!Like all comedic films by Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer to follow this, Spy Hard is the precursor to their idea that comedy stems from poking fun at the box office successes of the time, and in the mid 90s, we get spoofs here from films such as Jan de Bont's Speed, Spielberg's Jurassic Park, Tarantino's Pulp Fiction, Cameron's True Lies, Wolfgang Petersen's In the Line of Fire and even Sister Act which allowed for some nuns with guns moments. While it's part of the fun spotting, or rather identify all the blatant spoof attempts, this soon wears out their welcome and like their follow up films, it seems that lessons aren't learnt from spoof fatigue. Simply put the story here dwells on Agent WD-40 stopping his arch nemesis General Rancor (Andy Griffith, or TV's Matlock), but its relentless buffoonery didn't quite survive past the halfway mark where jokes consistently fell flat and were unfunny.Still, the best thing about the film is to watch Leslie Nielsen at his element with yet another Nielsen-isque performance, and for fans around the world, he will definitely be missed as one of the unlikeliest comedians of our generation. Rest in peace, and thank you for the memories. "}{"Title":"not too good(especially if you expect to laugh)","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" this movie is billed as a spoof/comedy,but it's not really funny.there are 1 or 2 mildly amusing moments,but mostly it's just silly,without being funny.this movie would work as an actual spy movie,except that you have the expectation that you will laugh.it's gonna be hard to get the required 10 lines of text in here,but i'll try.i think the problem is the filmmakers tried too hard to get laughs.sometimes you can go too far with a joke and it ends up as flat as a pancake.so the movie isn't really funny,but it does have 1 redeeming feature.that is the casting of Andy Griffith(TV's Matlock and the Andy Griffith show) as a maniacal nut case who plans to either destroy the world or rule it.Griffith is great in this movie.he has so much fun in the role.Barry Bostwick is also good for some comic relief.but overall,the movie is not good.the most i can squeeze out for Spy Hard is a 4/10 "},{"Title":"Simply not funny","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  The acting is pretty bad, the jokes aren't funny, so what's left is an annoying James Bond-like thing that is not worth watching. Compared to Leslie Nielsen's Naked Gun series and Airplane!, this film is one of Nielsen weakest performances. I rate it 3/10. "},{"Title":"I'd Rather Die Hard","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  WHAT!? That's the best description I can give of this poorly put together piece of trash.  What was Leslie Nielsen thinking?  Having done 'Airplane' and the 'Naked Gun' movies he should know a good comedic script when he sees one. Perhaps he wasn't wearing his glasses when he read this one.  Unfortunately someone hooked his great talent for this awful movie.  Relying solely on sight gags, you keep waiting for something that resembles funny dialogue. You even get yourself prepared for even the slightest comedic dialogue, but nowhere is it found.  The Zucker brothers need a hit and so does Leslie after this one.  They make a good team.  Their people should call each other.  In the meantime rent Airplane and The Naked Gun and remember what a good comedy feels like. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the Naked Gun movies, but worth a watch if you find Leslie Nielsen funny.","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Sure this movie is a spoof of other movies found in many scenes, but different from other Nielsen movies the star power and funny moment after moment is just not found. I will admit that Nicollette Sheridan did provide a reason to watch this. Leslie Nielsen is at his best in the Naked Gun films, but still Spy Hard is worth a watch due to the many scenes of spoof and if you find Nielsen funny and entertaining give this a view. "},{"Title":"A boring, humorless effort","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  It's just bad.  James Bond films have been spoofed so many times (I mean SOOOOO many times) that this just has nothing new to offer.  Not to mention the fact that the jokes are either recycled from previous slapstick comedies or so lame nobody bothered to do them before.  Even for the exhuasted genre of the 'slapstick parody', this is weak. "},{"Title":"Not Good At All","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Leslie will never be as funny as he was years ago,it would take a miracle,the reason being he is accepting all these ridiculous scripts,just because hes in it doesnt mean it will change anything.Spy Hard has a very few funny scenes,and i find this film very similar to Nielsons other unfunny films like DRACULA DEAD & LOVING IT & WRONGFULLY ACCUSED.I always wished their would be another Naked Gun,that is the only way Nielson can get his spoof fame back,now he is the same as any other star like Charlie Sheen in a spoof movie. Spy Hard wasnt funny,a very few scenes will make you laugh,i also recommend you avoid this.OVERALL FOR SPYHARD 4/10GOOD POINTS OF FILM First Spy SpoofBAD POINTS OF FILM Terrible Script/Unfunny. "},{"Title":"Stay the hell away from this piece of crap!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This is one of those films i wish i had never seen. I actually spent perfectly good money to see it. I must have been out of my freaking mind. This movie is a disgrace. What was the director thinking? 'Let's just forget about good taste? Screw the story?' What a ripoff.   "},{"Title":"Quite unfunny parody","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Spy hard has its moments, especially the Weird Al song in the beginning and the parody of Home Alone. But still the movie is quite unfunny. Leslie Nielsen is again type-casted in this movie and it is too much like the Naked Gun movies. I would give this ** stars out of ***** (4 out of 10). "},{"Title":"Spy hard? more like Dire Hard","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Leslie Nielsen is one of my favorite comedy actors of all time, but unfortunately he doesn't seem to be able to find decent scripts to support his talent these days. Spy Hard comes across as an attempt to build on the wonderful Naked Gun series, but it doesn't come close. The plot is basically a rehash of the Naked Gun formula but without any of the elements that made Naked Gun funny. It was difficult to find anything to laugh at in this film, indeed the only bit in the film i laughed at was the fight scene where Agent WD-40 is recieving a beating when suddenly who should tag in but Hulk Hogan. Of course, not even the Hulkster is tough enough to defeat the goons so in tags...a granny! That had me rolling on the floor laughing. Unfortunately, one joke is no reason to watch a film, and Spy Hard certainly isn't worth watching. For fans of the Naked Gun/Airplane style comedy, i reccomend Mafia! - that is a great film. Spy Hard is not. Therefore i give Spy Hard 1 out of 10, and it only get sone for the Hulk Hogan sequence. "},{"Title":"Oh, why didn't I see a Pauly Shore film instead?","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Weird Al was funny as usual in the intro, but that was where the laughs ended.  This movie tries to recapture the humor of Airplane and The Naked Gun, but fails miserably.  It seems clear that the people who put this movie together did not even understand this type of humor. In Airplane, the humor lies in taking logical steps from peculiar interpretations of events.  Surely your joking  I'm serious, and don't call me Shirley.  Now that's funny. This movie, however, merely has gags without context. "}{"Title":"Try again","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Agent Dick Steele (Leslie Nielsen) must partner up with Agent Veronique Ukrinsky (Nicollette Sheridan) to stop General Rancor (Andy Griffith) from destroying the world with a nuclear missile hidden in his secret base. So, apart from that, I thought this movie was going to be a funny one. It wasn't, except for Weird Al Yankovic singing the opening theme song, which was quite entertaining. The rest of the film just tries way too hard to be funny which makes the film look really silly, like Police Academy for example (except that had more funny moments but there weren't many). Anyway, to sum this review up, all I can say is just don't bother watching this movie. "},{"Title":"worst movie, ever!","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  I really hate this film, which is something I have never said about any other movie. I was ready to walk out on this film within the first 5 minutes. The only reason I didn't was because I had already handed over my hard earned money to see it. The story was complete rubbish, a mix of tired and unfunny spoofs of other films. Poor acting and casting decisions as well as some really bad jokes. If any film was going to kill off the spoof genre, this was going to be it. It is a great shame, because Leslie Nielsen has made some great films, none better that Flying High(Airplane) and The Naked Gun. There are no redeeming features in this movie at all so if you see it on a shelf in a video store, do yourself a favour and keep walking.  "},{"Title":"Mr. Nielson only THINKS he's funny","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Don't get me wrong. I am a huge fan of Police Squad! (In Color). It's just that what made that great is exactly what is missing from this movie. In the Police Squad! series, Leslie Nielsen played a straight dead-pan character, very serious. Very little mugging to the camera, and reacted to the silliness around him with a dryness that only Jack Webb could muster.In Spy Hard, we have a cartoonish character whose a buffoon. He mugs to the camera at every turn. He's trying to have fun with the audience. Sadly it just makes him look sad. The best thing about this movie (the 5 star moment) was the opening credits sung by Wierd Al. After that, to say it's ok is pushing it. It's bad, but not bad enough to be good. It's more like a poor-man's 3 stooges style slapstick than anything, and I do mean totally destitute type of poor.You would be better off seeing Airplane or Police Squad! (and the Naked Gun movies that followed) 20 times in a row. You will find the 20th showing of any of these movies more enjoyable than the first viewing of Spy Hard.   "},{"Title":"Try Hard","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" FirstSorry about my bad English,i'm not American! If you know Leslie Nielsen's previous spoof/comedy films,you could expect something very funny this time,but,that's not what you get,instead,we get a movie that tries as much as it can to be like airplane,and mainly naked gun.It's pretty clear that this movie writers were influenced by the ZAZ team.But,they sure don't know how to handle the style of humor that may had seemed easy on their minds.We do receive nonsense,double-sense,jokes a second and other characteristics that made movies like Naked Gun,Airplane and hot shots! so great,but,in this one all of these characteristics had been used out of context and not well-used as the movies mentioned. Sure,this film has great jokes,some even clever,but all of them are in the trailer,so,my tip for you is watch the trailer,then watch this movie online till the great opening with weird Al,you will see all you need "},{"Title":"Funny Leslie Nielson Spoof!","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" This is one of a large handful of spoof films starring Leslie Nielson. This time, Nielson is spy Agent Dick Steele, WD-40 and is on a mission to save the world from General Rancor (Andy Griffith), who wants to destroy the world with a missile that can only be assessed with a special computer trip kept hidden by its inventor, Professor Ukrinsky (Elya Baskin), who wants to use the computer trip for more peaceful purposes. Along the way, Steele teams up with Ukrinsky's daughter, KGB agent Veronique Ukrinsky, Agent 3.14.As with any Nielson spoofs, there are non-stop laughs from start to finish that will have you horse-laughing and holding your stomaches. Slapstick humor is abundance here, from bumping into sliding glass doors to rolling down a street on an ambulance stretcher. However, the slapstick humor is done tastefully in a way that is doesn't get borderline annoying (i.e., forced comedy).The characters are calm and serious in their demeanor, especially Nielson, believing that they are really out on a classified mission, which gives this spoof the perfect balance of sensitivity and comedy. Actors in some other spoofs like Epic Movie and Meet the Spartans know they are appearing in a spoof movie, so they forced themselves to act stupid and go overboard on the slapstick comedy. As a result, this gives the audience a tasteless film.It is fun to see this movie reference many other movies including Jurassic Park, Home Alone, True Lies, Sister Act and the James Bond films. The nuns using machine guns, 'Weird Al' Yankovic's James Bond-like opening song sequence and Dick Steele riding a Marines fighter jet are some of my favorite parts, as well as seeing Dick Steele's sidekick Kabul (John Ales) drive up in a different car in each of his different scenes.While entertaining, this movie is a little the short side, clocking at 81 minutes, which doesn't give much room for plot and character development and more laughs. Therefore, I felt the story was a little rushed-through. But, other than that, this is an enjoyable movie with some of Nielson's finest moments.Grade B "},{"Title":"I like it, it's funny but ultimately, it's not very good....","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Yes, you do have to enjoy Leslie Nielson - and millions do - and I am one of them and whilst they're always funny and enjoyable, they do repeat quite obvious gags.He (& the production team) do those very well, of course and Nielson's sense of comic timing spot-on. However, this parody on the James Bond's and Spies of the cinematic world is seldom original. The funniest bits tend to be the gags away from those obviously 'Spy' genre and there's much sending up of films such as Home Alone, Speed, Pulp Fiction, True Lies, Sister Act, Jurassic Park, In the Line of Duty and finally a classic 007 fight-out.However, most of these are just too similar to the originals to be anything more than amusingly recognisable. I'm not saying that they're any better or worse than the Scary Movies send up's of horror flicks, but they could do better; mind you, I never thought I'd see the day Nielson takes the John Travolta role, grey hair in a ponytail, in the infamous dance with Uma Thurman from Pulp Fiction.As always, the Silver haired charmer gets the most unlikely of gorgeous ladies and as always these are great value as their ridiculousness are always so well spoofed up. As Dick Steele, (Agent WD40) Nielsen is suitably inept and takes the praise that others create around him, whilst he wreaks havoc. There's a great cameo from Ray Charles as a blind bus driver in the Speed sketch and Charles Durning contributes a large slice of humour as 'The Director', Steele's boss.Leslie Nielsen, RIP - Spy Hard was not his finest film, not a bad one, but alas, not a very good one, which is down to the material, not the great man himself. "},{"Title":"funny leslie nielsen movie, but it's no naked gun","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" spy hard is a funny spoof starring laugh master leslie nielsen and while it's not as funny as his police squad works it has some great laughs none the less, there is virtually no plot just gag after gag, some fail, but most work, thankfuly its short running time doesn't let it get repetitive. we all know what to expect from a leslie nielsen movie and spy hard delivers the usaul dose of leslie nielsen type comedy, sure its of a certain taste but trust me when your in the mood, they deliver the goods. spy hard is a decent comedy and has enough laughs but trust me its no classic, but if your a leslie nielsen fan as i am, then it's definitely one for the collection. "},{"Title":"13 Years Later","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I saw this originally on cable and thought, given its limited aspirations, it wasn't that bad. Thirteen years later I still feel that way--25% is actually funny as hell, which is 24% more than most comedies of the last thirteen years. Originally I was most taken by Harden, then unknown. Who knew she'd win an Oscar a few years later? Anyway, the comedy in this film is hit and miss but sometimes very clever, such as a flashback to an encounter just seconds earlier. Sure, the pop culture references of '96 are quite dated now, and the whole film ends up as eminently disposable, but it >does< deliver some solid laughs. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious...","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" ...And then Weird Al stopped singing!  My recommendation would be to watch the opening credits and then stop it because it's just not funny. I've honestly never watched a parody movie that was less funny than this. None of the jokes worked!!  If I were given one word to describe this movie it would have to be lame.  But, don't get me wrong!  I usually love stupid humor!  There was just something truly wrong in this case!  Spend your time more wisely with Airplane!, Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein, or, if you want more Weird Al, go for UHF.  But remember, the movie's NOT a complete waste  Weird Al's original song during the opening credits that indirectly spoofs James Bond is an instant classic!  "},{"Title":"Spy Hard Had Its Funny Moments, But Should Not Have Spied So Hard","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Spy Hard can easily be misconceived as a film by the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker team who brought us Airplane (1980), The Naked Gun (1988), and its sequels. Their signature gags-per-minute style of on-screen jokes is very evident here, not to mention Leslie Nielsen's starring role and a cameo by Weird Al Yankovic. However, this film is mainly missing what Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker usually include in their previous films laughs.Actually, there are a few funny moments, but the rest of the movie seems to try too hard to be funny. The films references to popular, but non-spy, movies from that era (approximately 1992-1996) also feel out of place most of the time, and contribute nothing to the story. Leslie Nielsen still brings his trademark deadpan sensibilities to the role of special agent Dick Steele, but the rest of the film is weighed down by gags that are way too obvious, character names that serve as an all too desperate attempt to fish laughs from the audience (Dick Steele being a great example, and yes, there are penis jokes associated with that name), and missed opportunities.When I say missed opportunities, I'm talking mainly about Andy Griffith's role as terrorist General Rancor. To me, it's funny that American's quintessential nice guy would play the villain in this movie. However, that irony is never capitalized upon at any point when Griffith is on the screen. Because his character had his arms blown off, there are dumb running gags about his mechanical prosthetics. There's also a scene where he says, No Dick can stop me, which seems too open an invitation for a phallic joke. Sure enough, that joke arrives unfashionably early.The equally dumb names continue with the many femme fatales, beginning with Dick Steele's previous partner in crime, agent Barbara Dahl (Barbie Doll. Ho ho ho!). The worst was Miss Cheevus, played by Marcia Gay Harden years before winning an Academy Award.There's nothing really wrong with the story. A federal agent tries to stop a madman terrorist from taking over the world. I can get behind that. I mean, this terrorist wants to take over the world, but doesn't seem to know what he's going to do with it afterwards. Well, neither do terrorists in more serious-toned films.The problem lay in the story being weighed down by way too many movie references, none of which had to do with the plot or with spy films in general. For instance, there are ironically no references to GoldenEye (1995), the James Bond film that came out months before. There are, however, famous scenes repeated from Cliffhanger (1993), Pulp Fiction (1994), Home Alone (1990), Apollo 13 (1995), Speed (1994), and the famous Paul Newman bike-riding scene from Butch Cassidy & The Sundance Kid (1968). The latter reference came out of left field and broke the pattern.Still, with the exception of Ray Charles as a bus driver during the Speed spoof, all the other parody scenes were not funny. They were also barely parodies because they didn't point out the irony of their respective iconic moments. Leslie Nielsen and Nicollette Sheridan dance the exact same way John Travolta and Uma Thurman did in Pulp Fiction, and to the exact same song. But that was it. It's almost as if the filmmakers' thought, Hey, 'Pulp Fiction' was popular a few years ago. Let's throw in this scene from it. I could rant about Nielsen's agent number being WD-40, and how just having the name of a waterproof spray does not a funny gag make. Still, it at least tried to make fun of spy movies, which is what a film called SPY Hard should be doing.The fault here lies in the writing, particularly contributions by Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer. If these names sound familiar, they belong to two writers who would go on to ruin the credibility of Scary Movie, which they helped co-write, by making Date Movie (2006), Epic Movie (2007), Meet The Spartans, Disaster Movie (both 2008), and Vampires Suck (2010). Those latter films ruined the parody genre, and are even more guilty of pop culture referencing without actual humor than this movie is. Their contributions to this movie probably resulted in it being worse than it could have been.Fortunately, of the many cameos, Weird Al Yankovic made the most of his appearance. His song, Spy Hard, was an incredibly funny send-up of James Bond themes from Shirley Bassey's Goldfinger to Tom Jones' Thunderball, both lyrically and visually. It's just too bad that the rest of the film couldn't keep up, as hard as it may have spied. "}{"Title":"Awesome comedy !!!","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" This is one movie that never fails to cheer me up !!! Undoubtedly the best performance by Leslie after Naked Gun series. Beats the scary movie series and hotshot series for me. The gags are truly hilarious and the plot never fails to loosen its grip. I was a little disappointed that they didn't make a sequel or a series out of it. Because Leslie fits into the 'foolish yet brave detective / cop' so well that it hardly takes a viewer to associate with him. However, the movie does get tad repetitive at the end with the villains growing every minute and the drama getting a bit out of hand. And yeah , you miss the charming and confused presence of Priscilla Presley (of the fame of 'naked gun series'). Yet, all in all a superb comedy and a very special one()).I will recommend this to all spoof fans and Leslie fans. Watch the old guy and his undiluted fun. Cheer Up !! Its movie time !!! "},{"Title":"Leslie, What Happened?!?!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"       Attention Possible spoilers ahead (I really don't know yet, depends on what kind of mood I'm in as I write this and my anger grows).     First of all, just so there's no confusion about this whatsoever, I absolutely LOVE Leslie Nielson, and my beef with this film has nothing to do with a lack of a sense of humor or an unwillingness to appreciate dumb comedy, because dumb comedy is my FAVORITE KIND of comedy!!!  But, having said that, I just can't believe a dramatic and comedic legend like Leslie Nielson would sign on for such a lackluster, overly-commercialized and genuinely UNfunny project.      Don't get me wrong, Leslie does a GREAT job in this film, letting his perfect sense of timing and turn-of-phrase help the rare bits of truly funny material in this piece shine as much as they can.  But even the Old Snow-Capped L-Train himself couldn't save this mishandled, overdone Hollywood stink-bomb.  After Weird Al Yankovic's Golfinger-esque opening spy theme (which I was very surprised to learn he wrote himself, and was probably the best thing about the whole picture), the story's vague development and superfluous characters quickly sink what could have been a worthy vessel.  For instance, did we really need the ethnic cab-driver character?  He adds nothing at all to this film, is given WAY too much screen time, and really annoys more than entertains.  Also, there were too many misdirected parodies.  A screaming secret agent McCauley Caulken?!?!  That's original...if it's 1992!!!  And even THEN this concept would have been considered lame, and poor fodder for comedic cheap shots.  And THEN of course we had to get a Sister Act parody and a Speed parody, which EVERYBODY was doing then, it has no originality whatsoever.  Come on, let's stick with something relevant, or at least relevant on a Middle School grade level!  Okay, maybe I'm ranting now, but I care too much about L-Train to see him wasted on garbage like this.  The man is a GENIUS!!!  And all we could get him within the last decade was this, and Wrongfully Accused?!  Aww, come on!  Anywho...you get the picture.  L-Train good, Spy Hard bad.  Must get L-Train good movie instead of retreaded comic territory and stale pop-culture parodies.     ---Barrett "},{"Title":"Astoundingly unfunny","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  The credits sequence with Weird Al Yankovic is the only bit worth watching.  Save yourself the Blockbuster night and just watch it on his DVD video collection and pass on this movie.  A tired collection of fart jokes and name puns pass for wit in this alleged comedy.  Dick Steele, Agent WD-40?  Puh-leeze.  The able cast is also hampered by terrible pacing and what looks like last-minute editing and over-dubbing to avoid a lawsuit by General Motors.  (And you had wondered why General Mortars was the only non-pun name in the bunch.)  I'm betting Andy Griffith doesn't have this one on his resume'.  If you want to see a quality Bond/spy spoof, try the Derek Flynt movies with  James Coburn or even the first Austin Powers flick. No matter how hard it begs, do not pull this movie's finger. "},{"Title":"Bad Choice Leslie","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  The movie is pretty funny but it feels to much like Naked Gun, and especialy when Leslie himself is in it.The story didn't feel much worked out and fell like old jokes in it.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very bad...","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This was one of those films for which I used Blockbuster's If you don't like it, we'll give you a free rental policy. This film was no more than a very bad attempt to clone the success of films like Naked Gun 1 and 2 (which btw are very good). Unfortunately this film failed miserably. I gave it a 2 out of 10...If you have not seen Naked Gun 1 or 2 than I recommend those instead...if you have, then there is no point of seeing this one. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This was the worst movie I have ever seen.  Normally, I enjoy the humor of Leslie Nielsen found in the Naked Gun movies.  But this one was so bland, I am ashamed at myself for watching it all the way through. "},{"Title":"Mental slurry","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  When I heard the reviews and saw the trailers for this film I decided to skip the cinema and video showings and wait for it to hit TV.  It was a wise decision because this is probably one of the worst comedies (and films) I have ever seen.  I cannot honestly remember a single decent laugh from myself.  I was happy enough with the Naked Gun films when they were first released.  The series upon which they were based was hilarious at times. Even the recent Dracula spoof produced the occasional chuckle, but it seems to have gone all pear shaped for Leslie now.  How about some original jokes for a change!It begs the question - is this what Americans find funny?  Surely by reading the script potential backers would find out just how laughless it is. "},{"Title":"One of the best films starring Leslie Nielsen","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This was one of the best spy movie parodies ever made. Compared to Austin Powers Spy Hard is more modern than the 60's based movie. Spy Hard was more easy to understand then Austin Powers because it did not have the 60's terms throughout the movie. It was also more based on the James Bond motive and the TV Show Get Smart  "},{"Title":"A laugh every ten jokes or so","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Often this movie just really feels like they gave Leslie Nielsen a rough outline of the plot and yelled action. Nielsen is the usual Frank Drebin stereotype, but his deadpan delivery routine only works when the line's actually funny. That's rarely the case. The writers try to copy Naked Gun, but can never really get it right and get stuck in their own dialogues. Here and there they manage to show some creativity, but for the most part they just resort to lame obvious jokes you see coming from miles away. You can feel them struggling, and that's never good. Even more bothersome than the amount of groan-inducing jokes is the boredom though. This movie has very few interesting things going on. Only some funny loose parodies like the ones on Home Alone and Sister Act made me keep watching. It's not the worst parody there is, it's not completely void of laughs, but it's still barely worth the rental fee. "},{"Title":"Bad James Bond spoof.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This was supposed to be a James Bond spoof, but if that is what you are looking for then check out the Austin Power's movies.  This one just spoofs a bunch of movies with mixed results.  The best part of the movie is the title song, sung by Weird Al; it is actually the only thing that really spoofs Bond flicks.  There are also a few other good scenes in this as well, and then there are other ones that just seem to have Leslie Nielson reenacting a scene from a movie with no real pay off.  Some of the movies spoofed are True Lies, Speed, Jurassic Park, and Pulp Fiction.  There are more, but I can't remember them all.  If they could have stood with some basic form of a plot this one would have been better, but as it is it has a couple of laughs in it.  I particularly like the kid who was acting like the Home Alone kid and what happened to him. "}{"Title":"Lame","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  The Weird Al Yankovic opening credit sequence is funny, and occasionally there is a moment or a one-liner that makes you smile....but otherwise, this movie is NOT FUNNY. The humor is forced, not more subtle like in the Naked Gun films, and it's tiresome as to how much they rip off from other movies instead of trying to come up with more original gags. "},{"Title":"Amusing theme song from Weird Al Yankovic, but apart from that, a rather boring spoof","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" It seems that many James Bond parody movies have been made through the decades since the character was introduced to the silver screen in the early '60s. I haven't seen all of these spoofs, but of the ones I have seen, some of them are funny (like they're obviously supposed to be), and others not so much. Unfortunately, Spy Hard is one of the latter. It's not a complete disaster, but a disappointing film in the spoof genre nonetheless, with very little to be remembered by.Dick Steele, Agent WD-40 is a retired secret agent. However, he is lured out of retirement when General Rancor, an old foe of his, has plans to destroy the world, and Steele is assigned to stop him! On his mission, Steele is joined by Veronique Ukrinsky, a young Russian agent, and together, they must make their way to General Rancor's lair! On their way, many challenges await! The most amusing and memorable part of this movie is Weird Al Yankovic's theme song, a parody of James Bond themes. That song was what lead me to watch Spy Hard, seeing its sequence from this movie in 'Weird Al' Yankovic The Ultimate Video Collection. So, in other words, I had already seen the best part of the movie by the time I saw the whole thing. The rest of the movie is nothing special. I lightly snickered at the part when a light tap on the shoulder leads to a fist fight, but for the rest of the film, I didn't laugh at all. Aside from James Bond, several other films are also parodied, but not parodied very well. Basically, Spy Hard just has one mediocre gag after another, and not too many are worth mentioning. It's all extremely silly, and not in a good way.Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer were writers for this 1996 spy spoof, and since then, they've definitely gone on to do much worse! It appears they started out mediocre (looking at Spy Hard), and their more recent work is a crime against humanity, proving they should not be in the comedy business! So, Spy Hard isn't the worst film that Friedberg and Seltzer had something to do with (it might even be the best!), but it's still not worth it, if you ask me, and I know many would agree, since it has such a low rating. Fortunately, Austin Powers International Man of Mystery, another silly James Bond spoof, but a far superior one, was released the year after this forgettable flop. "},{"Title":"Typical Nielson","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This James Bond spoof never accomplishes much and resorts to typical Leslie Nielson fare, with half-hearted laughs, and not enough to name the film great, just like Wrongfully Accused and Dracula Dead and Loving It.Don't get me wrong, the film isn't awful by any account - it just isn't good enough to see twice. A Naked Gun it is not.2.5/5 stars - very average slapstick.John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Another hiarious Leslie Nielsen spoof","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  The Weird Al Yankovic bit is brilliant. Pure genius. The film itself isn't quite up to that standard, but it's very funny in places, and Nielsen carries the film with fanastic charisma. He is Agent Dick Steele(WD-40), who is sent out to stop General Rancor, an evil megalomaniac threatening to destroy the world. Simple premise, but director Rick Friedberg and his scriptwriter son Jason have given it some funny one-liners too. I like the Ray Charles Speed spoof the best. In places the jokes don't come off with good effect, but overall it's very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Funny, But Something Is Off","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" General Rancor (Andy Griffith) is threatening to destroy the world with a missile he is hiding at his secret base. But to complete his goal, he needs a special computer chip, invented by Prof. Ukrinsky. Special Agent Dick Steele (Leslie Nielsen) is assigned to the case, in order to prevent the worst.The humor of this film is similar to other Nielsen flicks -- slapstick, cheesy and sometimes downright stupid. It is a far many rungs down the ladder from Airplane! or Naked Gun, though still a step up from Dracula Dead and Loving It (with all due respect to Mel Brooks).While there are many funny moments, something about it seems cheap and many of the movie parodies are just not well done. The Home Alone parody is overdone, and so is the Sister Act bit, whereas Speed, Pulp Fiction and Jurassic Park may have been just right.Special credit goes to Pat Morita for playing Brian the gay waiter. It may be a bit part, but it was a good bit part. "},{"Title":"Average spoof","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  It's not as funny as the Naked Gun series or Airplane, but practically what you would expect in a spoof. There's a number of negative points I have to mention, such as the what is it? joke that was used often and so obviously ripped off from Airplane. Also, the guy who dressed up as furnitures was plain and simply NOT funny, but stupid and annoying. But the good points -the Pulp Fiction and Home Alone spoofs rocked, as well as some other parts that parodied some other films. There are also a number of one liners and gags that you can laugh at. But overall, the film just isn't that exciting or hilarious. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Wow, what can I say about Spy Hard... It was hilarious! The beginning scene, with Weird Al, had my little brother laughing on the floor for about a half hour. My favorite character was Kabul, played by the very talented John Ales. He was incredibly funny! I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes to laugh.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as other Nielson films....","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  But a  credible effort on his part none the less, I did not find myself constantly laughing at this as I did with his other movies, but it's still a good movie, especially if you like his other works.  The title song sung by Weird Al really sets the mood for the rest of the film, and is one of the best credits sequences in movie history.Overall I give it an 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty weak but still entertaining","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This is another imitation of the ZAZ movies. It has its moments (Weird Al and Home Alone spoof to say a couple) but they are not so many as in previous installments. I cannot imagine though that anyone who has actually rented this title and is looking for slapstick comedy will not enjoy it. You know what you're looking for. When you've been treated with Airplane! and Naked Guns you know you can't expect anything that fresh.  "},{"Title":"The comic genius that is Leslie Nielsen.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Thank God Leslie Nielsen gave up his 'serious roles' in movies. Or, we would never get classics such as the Naked Gun series, or, the short-lived 'Police Squad!' series that Naked Gun was based off of. Or, hell, even Wrongfully Accused. Well, this time Nielsen comes in as Dick Steele/Agent WD-40, who has just found out that when he blew up his 'arch enemy', General Rancor (Played by Andy Griffith) is plannin' on destroyin' the world with a missile. Well, this leads up to the usual hilarious slapstick comedy in a Leslie Nielsen film. When I first caught this film in the movies, the opening scene with 'Weird Al' Yankovic had me laughin' for about twenty-minutes straight! Causin' me to miss the first twenty-minutes of the film. The perfect comedy that will have you laughin' all throughout the damn movie! Pullin' off a solid rating of an eight from me. Also, lookout for cameos from Mr. T, Ray Charles, Hollywood Hogan, Tone Loc, etc. "}{"Title":"Terrific opening credits sequence","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  After watching Weird Al's opening credit sequence, I thought Spy Hard was going to be a great movie.I guess I was wrong.  Highlights  musical score, opening credits sequence, closing credits sequence.Low points the other stuff.  "},{"Title":"Very amusing","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  I found this movie very enjoyable.  The slapstick was hilarious and the dialogue was really amusing.  It's worth a rent. "},{"Title":"Nielsen Hilarious and loving it","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This is definitely similar to the Naked Gun movies, although slightly less funny.  Nielsen is as funny as always.  The one thing this movie needs is lovable supporting characters such as the one played by OJ Simpson in the Naked Gun's. I give it a seven. "},{"Title":"Ripoff of Spoofs on Real Movies","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Some movie director's make spoofs on real movies and some just make ripoff's of those spoofs. This is one of the latter.I popped this in because i, like many of the people who watched the Naked gun series (and Airplane and Scary Movies) loved the way the Zucker Abrams director team made incredible comedy with Leslie Nielson.But this movie was directed by entirely different people, who had no qualms about totally ripping off those comic geniuses and what's more egregious- failing to be funny! Just don't waste your time- there are still plenty of great comedies with outrageous Leslie Nielson playing the same exact character that are actually bearable to watch. Unfortunately this is not one of them. "},{"Title":"Funny at Times,but Certainly None of  Nielsen's Finest,","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Spy Hard is a decent film with an enjoyable but in no way memorable or original,with a good comedic cast.The movie is nothing spectacular and it is easily forgetful,but Leslie Nielsen certainly makes it a lot better,the character was clearly written for him,he was very similar to Frank Drebin from the Naked Gun movies,but certainly didn't have dialogue that was as funny as Drebin has.My favourite part was definitely Weird Al Yankovic's song about the movie in the opening and ending credits,they were both the funniest and the most enjoyable.Its certainly nothing hilarious or an outstanding comedy,but if your a fan of Leslie Nielsen you myth want to watch it just for his sake.Secret agent Dick Steele (Leslie Nielsen) is given a mission to stop General Rancor (Andy Griffith) from destroying the world with a deadly missile. "},{"Title":"Torture is preferable.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This is one of the worst supposed 'comedies' that I have ever seen. There is not a single laugh in this movie and it is proof positive that Leslie Nielson cannot make a decent movie unless it has Airplane! or Naked Gun attached to it (and that's being quite generous to Naked Gun 331/3) Whoever approved this script should never work again. Just imagine what damage they could do in other areas of the public sector!Seriously, tooth extraction is enjoyable compared to this.  Avoid with every fibre of your being. "},{"Title":"Another hiarious Leslie Nielsen spoof","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  The Weird Al Yankovic bit is brilliant. Pure genius. The film itself isn't quite up to that standard, but it's very funny in places, and Nielsen carries the film with fanastic charisma. He is Agent Dick Steele(WD-40), who is sent out to stop General Rancor, an evil megalomaniac threatening to destroy the world. Simple premise, but director Rick Friedberg and his scriptwriter son Jason have given it some funny one-liners too. I like the Ray Charles Speed spoof the best. In places the jokes don't come off with good effect, but overall it's very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Some good moments but has an incredibly bad script.","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" It's OK to laugh at these sort of 'simple, stupid', comedies every now and then, even if it has Leslie Nielsen in it. This movie has some great of these 'simple, stupid' laughs in it but the story really restrains this movie from being a true good or recommendable one.The story is so bad that the movie becomes real painful to watch in parts! At times you really don't know what is really happening on screen or why, just because it doesn't make sense. It really lacked a real clear and good main plot-line.The movie also tries to spoof way too many movies, just for the sake of spoofing. Most of the time these spoofing moments really don't fit within the movie and seem to be put in completely randomly. It was as if the director was making a sport out of it how many movies he could spoof within one movie.It's of course also a very easy thing to spoof the spy-genre. In that regard this movie has all the jokes in it you would most likely expect.Of course most comical moments and dialog are very lame. But often they are so lame and stupid that you can't help but laugh at them. So no matter how bad this movie actually is, it's still a movie that can and most likely will make you laugh, with also some cameo's from people such as non other then Ray Charles and Hulk Hogan.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Decent spoof movie","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This at first appeared to be a spoof of James Bond, but in actuality it spoofs a lot of different movies; this could probably have worked, but unfortunately, most of the gags are not very funny. The few gags that did work for me were the spoofs of Pulp Fiction and Home Alone, but apart from those, most were not funny, some of them were even embarrassingly bad. Considering the material, which movies they spoofed, they could've done better; most of the movies spoofed(and especially the main theme, James Bond movies) could've been parodied a lot better. Unless you're a hardcore fan of Leslie Nielsen, you probably won't enjoy this film on any more than a casual level, as it's nothing special. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone, unless they truly can't stand the very thought of there being a spoof movie that they haven't seen. This movie is very average, and there is nothing at all in the movie to indicate otherwise. The gags are mostly boring, the acting is embarrassing, and the parodies are almost so unfunny that it hurts. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Spy Harder to Find a Decent Screenplay.","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Spy Hard (1996) Dir Rick Friedberg / Cast Leslie Nielsen, Andy Griffith, Nicolette Sheridan, Charles Durning, Marcia Gay Harden Carbon copy of the superior Naked Gun comedies that also showcased the absent-minded slapstick humour of Leslie Nielsen. It is a direct spoof of James Bond films with lashes at other films particularly Die Hard. Nielsen stars as secret agent WD-40 better known as Dick Steele who is called upon to rescue Barbara Dahl from a past villain. Dahl is the daughter of a past deceased girlfriend. Premise wears thin and jokes become forced. Director Rick Friedberg has fun with the parodies with effective setups to other films, but too much is familiar. Nielsen seems in on the joke here and is never as funny as his Frank Drebin role from The Naked Gun films. Andy Griffith is also distant as the villain with artificial arms. Nicolette Sheridan is wasted as a Bond bombshell whose seduction is no match for any Bond girls. Charles Durning as Steele's boss inspires some comic wit with his constant hideouts but the role is otherwise standard. Marcia Gay Harden also has the comic chops but in the wrong movie for it. It is indeed a spoof of James Bond films with a few funny moments but Nielsen is far better in The Naked Gun films where characters seem broader. This spy contraption is a horrid carbon copy that is about as artificial as the villain's arms. Score 4 / 10 "}{"Title":"It's like Naked Gun 0 1/2","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  While Spy Hard is nowhere near as funny as the Naked Gun movies, or even as funny as Wrongfully Accused, it has enough laughable moments to make it worth at least some of your money. Okay, I'll be honest, it's only worth about $1.50 of your money. Coincidentally, that's exactly how much I spent seeing it. So I guess what I'm trying to say is that it's worth my money, but probably not yours. Weird Al's theme song is just about the best things about Spy Hard, but there were some other good moments post opening credits.If you want a really good James Bond spoof, Austin Powers International Man Of Mystery is still the ticket. However, I'd still take Spy Hard over either of the horrible Austin Powers sequels.And if you're saying to yourself Self, I just can't believe a really old looking guy playing a James Bond type character then I would say that you clearly never saw Roger Moore in A View To A Kill!SPY HARD= 5/10.WEIRD AL'S THEME SONG= 10/10.LESLIE NEILSEN PULLING OFF AN ELDERLY JAMES BOND CHARACTER BETTER THAN ROGER MOORE IN A VIEW TO A KILL= 9/10 "},{"Title":"Leslie Nielsen Drops His Pants","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Promiscuous secret agent Leslie Nielsen (as Dick Steele) comes out of retirement and assumes his spy identity as WD-40 to battle old enemy Andy Griffith (as Rancor), made-up to look like Leonid Brezhnev and aiming to take over the entire free world. Sexy and snuggly-clothed Nicollette Sheridan (as Veronique Ukrinsky) is Dick's arousing co-spy, and accented John Ales (as Kabul) is a reliable partner. Weird Al Yankovic gets things of to a good start with a Goldfinger licking good title song. Familiar faces and comic bits keep it fun, through most of the running time.****** Spy Hard (5/24/96) Rick Friedberg ~ Leslie Nielsen, Nicollette Sheridan, John Ales, Andy Griffith "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Leslie Nielson rips off practically every film you can think of - from James Bond to Jurassic Park. Every gag hits home perfectly. Although it's really just Naked Gun with a different name, this is still well worth watching - so much that I registered a vote of 10 with IMDB. "},{"Title":"100% stupid--and sometimes I think we need a film like this!!","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Okay, this isn't the most intellectual comedy ever made. Okay, it really is a stupid comedy--I'll have to break down and admit it. It's even stupider than the NAKED GUN movies or HOT SHOTS--I'll even admit that. However, despite it being so doggone stupid, it did make me laugh and that IS important. Plus, while this film isn't great by any stretch, it is (thank goodness) a lot better than some of the truly awful comedies starring Leslie Nielsen--such as REPOSSESSED--which I nominate as one of the most unfunny films in history! The bottom line is if you need a laugh, this film will get it unless you are dead or a lawyer. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As NAKED GUN","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  SPY HARD starts with an in joke of having Mr T pilot a helicopter and that`s about as sophisticated as the film gets . It`s a spy spoof with refferances to IN THE LINE OF FIRE , SPEED , PULP FICTION etc and even includes a sly nod to FELLOWSHIP OF THE THE RING years before that movie was filmed ! . Leslie Nielson does his Frank Drebin routine under the surrogate name of Dick Steel . It`s entertaining enough but does get very silly in places and never gets close to the hilarity of THE NAKED GUN  series  "}]