[{"Title":"The Missing Matthau / Lemmon film","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the 1990s there were a slew of films in which Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau appeared together. The first two were GRUMPY OLD MEN, and it's sequel GRUMPIER OLD MEN, both of which had good box office. Then came THE GRASS HARP, which is technically one of their joint films, but is actually a dramatization of a fine novel by Truman Capote that had an excellent ensemble cast, and that only had one scene with the two actors together. OUT TO SEA was another Lemmon and Matthau romp, and finally came THE ODD COUPLE II, which was a weak (but amusing) sequel.Technically, between THE GRASS HARP and OUT TO SEA there was to be this film. It was to star Matthau as a Democratic ex-President, whose one term in office was following the one term of his rival, Republican ex-President Lemmon, and both would be followed by Republican incumbent Dan Ackroyd. But Matthau could not be in the film, presumably due to health problems. Instead, his role was filled in by James Garner. Although one likes watching the chemistry of Matthau and Lemmon in their comedies, the substitution of Garner is probably for the best. Garner's character is like Bill Clinton or John Kennedy, a ladies' man type. In fact, his wife is divorcing him during the film (we only see her briefly when he is elected President). Somehow Matthau could not have fit that type of role.The 1990s also saw several pictures that tackled the problems of the Presidency. The best of these was THE American PRESIDENT, wherein Michael Douglas tries to balance his job's duties, with his performance ratings, and his falling in love with a woman whose political agenda can be used to bash him (Annette Benning). There was also DAVE, which was a variation on an old Akim Tamiroff film THE MAGNIFICENT FRAUD, wherein a double (KEVIN KLINE) finds he must continue to play the role of the President when the President (who is corrupt) has a devastating stroke. There the double finds himself falling in love with the First Lady (SIGOURNEY WEAVER - who reciprocates), and fighting an unscrupulous, power-hungry chief of staff (FRANK LANGELLA). MY FELLOW Americans fits in with this pair of films in continuing the trend.Lemmon wins his term as President by defeating his Democratic rival Garner. But four years later Garner defeats incumbent Lemmon. But four years after that Garner is defeated by Lemmon's former Vice President Ackroyd. In the third year of his term, Ackroyd is told by his chief of staff, Bradley Whitford (ironically a member on the television series THE WEST WING currently), that a major financial scandal involving Ackroyd is about to be revealed, and will finish him politically. Ackroyd and Whitford decide to kill the scandal by framing Lemmon for taking the bribes involved. But Lemmon is tipped off about the scandal by news reporter Sela Ward (seeking an exclusive), and Garner learns of it from Democratic Party head Wilfrid Brimley (and encouraged to check into it with the possibility of being renominated for the Presidency again). When the key man in the scandal is shot and killed by a rogue CIA man (Everett McGill, in an exceptionally good, creepy performance), the lives of the two ex-Presidents are in danger. They are forced to join forces to prove Ackroyd's perfidy. They are also forced to confront each other and their own failings.The reason the film works is it forces the audience to think of what is wrong with the political system. The initial ten minutes, with it's rapid turnover of one term Presidents, mouthing the typical clichés, reminds us that our leaders (with rare exceptions) rarely do more than protect their political hides by not doing anything that would really rock things. This is similar to the situation in THE American PRESIDENT where Douglas will not confront his Republican rival, Richard Dreyfus, who is questioning the influence of Benning on the President's policies, and who is willing to make a deal to pass some cosmetic, worthless crime bill instead of tackling the pro-gun lobby.In MY FELLOW Americans the moment of truth is when both ex-Presidents learn that their mediocre policies cost a nice family their job and their home. Garner finally shows how fed up he is, towards the end, when he tells Lemmon that he is sick of thinking of how little he really accomplished in the four years he was President, and how he wants to demolish Ackroyd's corrupt administration because it is what the starry eyed believers of Democracy expect their Presidents to do.The cast was quite in the film, but one wishes Lauren Bacall had had more scenes with Lemmon (her husband in the movie), and that Esther Rolle had been in a few more scenes as the White House cook. But otherwise it is a good Garner/Lemmon comedy, even though it was to have been a Matthau/Lemmon film. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy!","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that I totally disagree with the last comment I read on this movie. I think it's a very funny, well acted comedy. I think I watched it about six times in the last four years and it never fails to crack me up, I've enjoyed it as much the last time as the first time. Jack Lemmon is a great comedy actor and so is James Garner. It splashes of the screen that they had fun playing their parts. They play very well of each other. The script may not be the best written script ever, but it certainly contains a whole bunch of very funny one-liners, as well as a good deal of visual comedy. The casting is good also the supporting roles from Jon Heard, Dan Aykroyd, Wilford Brimley and Lauren Baccal.All in all it is a very entertaining film, witch I recommend to anyone who is seeking for an evening of letting all tensions gliding of you and having many good laughs.On a scale 1-10, I give it an 8.  "},{"Title":"Presidents Dumb and Dumber...","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So many professional actors, so much sophomoric humor.  You gotta love it.My Fellow Americans features Jack Lemmon and James Garner as ex-presidents on the run when they discover a cover-up with the present Chief of Staff (Dan Aykroyd) in the middle.This isn't a movie anyone's going to take seriously, and well they shouldn't.  There are lots of moments here that will elicit a laugh or two, maybe three.  And what plot there is whizzes by at such a fast pace that there's more time to concentrate on the guffaws.Lemmon and Garner play their parts as you'd expect.  That they go the dumb route is no surprise; in fact, it makes their presence here all the more entertaining.  Aykroyd basically plays the heavy here, so there's no real chance for him to generate any laughs.  A shame, since he's usually so good at that.Then there's the fact that real gems like Bacall and Brimley and Ward are just given throw-away parts; it's good to see them, of course, but you'd figure they'd have more to do (especially Bacall!!).Kudos, though, to John Heard as the dim-witted Vice President.  Some of the biggest laughs in this movie (for me) came from him.  His eulogy at the funeral scene early in the movie always makes me laugh out, as does his pithy observations such as Hey, a hat!.  Beats me why he isn't in more movies.As I said, the laughs are there, and if you demand nothing more from a comedy than to laugh, you'll want to do your political duty and rent My Fellow Americans - the one movie that insults both parties equally.Seven stars, plus one extra for putting up an excellent fakade. "},{"Title":"Kings Among the Commoners","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My husband and I both love this movie, for a number of reasons. 1. We are fans of James Garner in particular, and Jack Lemmon also. As other reviewers have noted, they play off each other extremely well. 2. In NJ, we have two former (rival)governors who share a political column.  Every time I see this movie, I think of the column, where they share a grudging respect somewhat like the characters in the movie. 3. None of the reviewers have said much about the king among the commoners theme. During their cross-country trek, the two former Presidents find out who their fellow Americans REALLY are - illegal immigrants, homeless families looking for a job, gay security guards, etc., etc. That's what this movie's REALLY all about. -Earth Mother "},{"Title":"My Fellow Americans 8/10","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jack Lemmon and James Garner are in top comedic form in My Fellow Americans. They, respectively, play former President Russell Kramer (Republican) and former President Matt Douglas (Democrat), who have spent the last thirty years hating each others guts. It's always sad when another good Democrat dies, Douglas says to a Secret Service Agent while on the way to the funeral. I believe that the deceased was a Republican, sir, he replies. To that, Douglas says, Oh. Then this might not be so bad.The current President, Haney (Dan Aykroyd) took kickback while Kramer was president. And Haney's trying to pin them on Kramer. Kramer and Douglas both know about it and Haney's going to try to kill them. When that proves unsucessful, Kramer and Douglas end up stranded alone in the middle of nowhere. So the two people, who loathe each other, must work together to tell thier fellow Americans while seeing the effect of their presidency on the general people.There are too many political movies. There aren't many political comedies. There are even less raunchy political comedies. In fact, it seems that My Fellow Americans should have been raunchier to warrant an R rating. Peter Segal wanted it to be ribald, but it would have been easier to write for if they didn't have an PG-13 rating in mind, so they could open up the humor a little.I really like the two leads. They had great chemistry together, I thought they actually hated each other. Lemmon and Garner had a great sense of comedic timing. The movie knew it was a comedy, but tried to take itself in a serious way, which has a great result. Other characters, however, pop up and then leave. Kay Griffin (Sela Ward), the reporter, has about two scenes, and Ben just pops up out of nowhere.It was extremely funny. Its raunch mixed in with tries-to-take-it-serious humor Now, if you'll excuse me, my salad's getting cold. I can't really think of anything else to say.My Fellow Americans is very funny with great leads. Look for it!My rating 8/10Rated PG-13 for salty language and innuendo. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise.","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When this film first came out, the trailers did not interest me in the least. I actually avoided seeing it so as to avoid seeing two cool actors make asses out of themselves (in a bad way). The film was rather poorly marketed, in other words. It looked like Beavis and Butthead with two old guys (in a bad way).In other words, I'm glad this was the film shown on an Amtrak train a few years back. I think I was laughing harder than anyone else in my car. Frankly, I think a few jokes sailed over people's heads. I remember in particular that the hilarious mispronunciation of facade by Dan Ackroyd's clueless VP didn't merit a titter. A few people looked at me oddly when I laughed at it.This isn't brilliant film-making, mind you. It's simply a vehicle for a lot of very talented comic actors to have fun with some ripe material. It may dip into preachiness now and again, but that is always redeemed ASAP by an entertaining round of rapid-fire bickering.On an aside, I have to say that I've been in love with Lauren Bacall since I saw The Big Sleep for the first time. It was great to see her in this and even greater to see that she still has a knack for the sharply delivered one-liner. Also, for someone born in the 20s she looks amazing. You heard me right. At 82 years, Lauren Bacall is still hot. Bogie was a very lucky man. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie. It's one of the best movies I've ever seen. It's awesome to see old farts running for their lives. It's funny how they actually survive. Jack Lemmon and James Garner are great in this movie because you never know what's going to happen next with them and Dan Aykroyd makes the perfect president. John Heard was also great playing the dimwitted Vice-President Matthews. In this movie though I didn't like the character of Col. Tanner. I also didn't like the women truck driver, but I do like the characters that President Kramer and Douglas meets like Charlie Reynolds, Wayne, Genny,Carl Witnaur, Lt. Fleming, and Joe Hollis. This movie is definitely a classic. So I am sure that this fantastic film definitely gets a 10/10.     "},{"Title":"A Comedic Constitutional Crisis","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Those two old pros, Jack Lemmon and James Garner, in their only film together provide quite a few laughs in what would normally be a very serious subject, a constitutional crisis.Two former presidents, Lemmon a Republican and Garner a Democrat, have a real nasty rivalry going. But when current president Dan Ackroyd tries to pin a kickback in a defense contract scandal on his fellow Republican Lemmon things get good and nasty. Garner gets into it when he starts checking on which Republican really is the crooked one and stumbles on the murdered defense contractor.After that when the two presidents are nearly killed when a government helicopter blows up, they are on the run. They are forced into an alliance of convenience.Despite this description, it is in fact a comedy with these two men who even as ex-Presidents are used to having everything done for them. Quite amusing indeed when they're forced out on their own.It's funny, but there are some trenchant comments about the state of politics and life in general in America at the turn of the new millennium. Lauren Bacall is in this oh too briefly as Lemmon's wife and Dan Ackroyd is the current president with John Heard as his Dan Quayle like Vice President.Republican or Democrat most viewers will vote thumbs up for My Fellow Americans. "},{"Title":"We Love It!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  We just happened upon this movie a couple of years ago when looking for some movies to rent.  Somehow we had missed it when the movie had been released and it was new to us.  We figured with Jack Lemmon and James Garner it couldn't be too bad.We thoroughtly enjoyed the movie and think it is one of the funniest movies around.  Lemmon and Garner play against one another perfectly.  After seeing it the first time, we went ahead and purchased the movie.  We have watched it more than a few times and have never grown tired of it.  There are some favorite scenes that we still laugh about even thought we know what is coming.We highly recommend this movie to anyone who is the mood for some good laughs and even some thoughtful moments.  You might not want children to see this because of language and a couple of scenes in bedrooms.  "},{"Title":"They're the chiefs and they need hailing","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Peter Segal's My Fellow Americans, a kind and genial little film, has coined the term Grumpy Old Presidents' over time with good reason. Had Walter Mathau been cast in the role of Democratic Governor Matt Douglas and not James Garner, we would've been calling this Grumpiest Old Men, as if it were a sequel to the inspired comedies Jack Lemmon and Walter Mathau made in the mid-nineties.But I digress. This is an equally inspired comedy, that knows its tone, knows its audience, and makes good use of its entire cast, especially its lead, Lemmon and Garner, who are unbelievably charismatic together as two bitter political rivals that have proudly clung to this white collar, boyhood way of fighting for decades now. Lemmon plays Republican Senator Russell Kramer and Garner is Democratic Governor Matt Douglas, who have both endured four years in office, first being Kramer defeating Douglas, and then four years later, vice-versa. Now incumbent Douglas has been defeated by former vice president William Haney (Dan Aykroyd) and his vice president Ted Matthews (John Heard). Up to speed? The last few years have been quite quiet for Kramer, who has been publishing books left and right and speaking at various schools and even for insurance companies. Douglas has endured a rougher road, working on publishing a book that is a sub-par effort according to his editor and is in the mix of a long divorce battle. On a plane to a funeral at Air Force One for a fallen Republican, the two men quibble all throughout the plane-ride and cement the fact to us why they have been bitter rivals for so many long years.When a serious scandal goes on that a man by the name of Charlie Reynolds (James Rebhorn) offered current president Haney kickbacks when he was a vice president, the Democratic Party plots to frame Kramer. But when Charlies is assassinated and Kramer and Douglas are put on a helicopter allegedly headed for Camp David under the order of Haney, but shipped into the middle of nowhere, the two cantankerous old presidents must learn to get along and attempt to stop the kickback scandal currently at hand in the White House.It's easy to say this film is never boring. What impressed me immediately was how dialog-driven and event-assisted this film became during the middle of its first act and how it never ceased to become lengthy and ponderous. The film uses its two men not as fiery weapons, but as human characters as they try in work through an incomprehensible situation paired with someone they are not fond of. The film continues to throw in different little twists, to keep its slender plot interesting, and never do they seem obligatory and forced. They are all little pieces attributing to the larger conflict at hand and all come to a close nicely.Writers E. Jack Kaplan, Richard Chapman, and Peter Tolan are too concerned with infusing satire into this material rather than have the characters remain presidential archetypes. Had they not gone for a more satirical effort, depicting corruption in the White House, brutal honest among elected officials, and widely different outlooks on both characters all attempting to cater to the same goal, this could've been a relatively strained, dull, unimportant effort. Yet largely because of the way the film injects little humorous quirks that make both Republicans and Democrats tick is the reason for My Fellow Americans' success as a film and as a whole.One could argue the film plays it too safe for a comedy directed at satirizing and lampooning American politics. I agree; the film relatively works in an inconsequential light and its prime goal isn't to offend or promote further hatred to one side or the other. But this could work in part of its success too, since we're so accustomed to each side bitterly debating with each other and the almost deliberate and apparent contention each side holds with one another that maybe a safe satire on politics is kind of what we need. A fun, free-spirited kind of take on the issue. It doesn't need to be completely offensive, and the film isn't always as safe as it would appear. Yet in the long run, Republicans shouldn't be too offended at the jabs at their stinginess and Democrats shouldn't be offended at the punches at their free use of money.My Fellow Americans is written efficiently and played nicely by its three writers and directed with a nice loose grip by Peter Segal, who too directed the joyously fun, quick-witted comedy that was Tommy Boy, that emphasized on the snappy worldplay that this project heavily relies on. Both films work well in the same fields, giving us two likable main characters, two talented screen-performers, an easily-digestible script, competent writing, solid direction, and overall, a cheeriness about a subject that we need and should cherish in current times. The whole exercise works on its own merits and that could be the reason you like or dislike this film as a whole.Starring Jack Lemmon, James Garner, Dan Aykroyd, and John Heard. Directed by Peter Segal. "}{"Title":"Wish there was a sequel....","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What a terrific parody on the political machine and its inner workings, or is it....a parody? I never even realized that Jack Lemmon and James Garner generated such great chemistry together. John Heard's role is also knee-slapping hilarious, that's the part that made me question the analogy of the comedic to the authentic in the undertone of this story...the time frame eludes me comparatively, but I seem to recall numerous instances of grammatical as well as literal faux pas perpetrated on the publics collective ear, lol. Makes one question just how secure we really are, but I guess it boils down to an analogy of a fancy exotic culinary offering and having the ability to make it or even pronounce it, I guess you don't have to be able spell it or say it to be able enjoy it...you just eat it! Sorry I digressed but just couldn't avoid the relationship to the factual. Either way this is one very funny, enjoyable movie, I wish there was a sequel! "},{"Title":"*** out of **** (Beware, spoilers in my review)","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a pretty unique presidential comedy because the protagonists, Jack Lemmon and James Garner, are a pair of presidents already out of  office. It must have made Walter Matthau, Lemmon's comic counterpart for over 30 years, feel pretty expendable to see the same Odd Couple chemistry with Garner performing so well across Lemmon.The movie cleverly starts out with Lemmon's character presidential candidate Kramer having been just elected president, thanking his constituents with joy and giving a speech about how dreams are like children, they must be nurtured, this is a running gag here, this is the only speech he has and he gives it at least a hundred times in the first hour of the movie alone. We then fast-forward four years and we hear Jack Lemmon at a podium in front of a big crowd, this time conceding to his opponent and giving a speech, obviously a lie, about how much confidence he has in his opponent to run the country. We start to think the movie is about to settle down, but before we get to know any more about the characters, we're fast forwarded 4 years, where Garner's character Matt Douglas has just lost to Kramer's former vice-president (Akroyd), and if that's not a long enough introduction, we fast-forward 3 more years we finally begin to settle in, and after the movie has given us enough motion sickness, we see Kramer and Douglas, feeling nostalgic and unfulfilled about their mediocre administations. When you think about it, it's nothing more than a midlife crisis. After that, however things kind of get confusing. Haney frames Kramer for a fraud as a way for the administration to defer blame. That's understandable, but for some odd reason, this pits the two ex-presidents together into a life-or-death battle against the national security agency. I think the plot is ridiculous, maybe I should've been more astute, but why was Douglas' life in danger? Why didn't the two ex-presidents go to the local authorities? Why was the NSA involved? However, regardless of the lack of anything convincing, the movie is undeniably fun. I'm not sure exactly why the characters are doing what they're doing, but at least they're having fun doing it and we can't help but have some fun watching them on their shenanigans, accidentally marching in a gay parade, hitching a ride with some illegal immigrants, posing as presidential impersonators of themselves, and the like. The humor also borders on political satire as well. At the end of the movie, the good guys win in Disney-like fashion and everything turns out just fine and dandy, and because of that my first reaction was extremely joyous walking out of the theater. I was thinking, Yay! The presidents won! They're gonna clean out Washington! That's what a happy ending does for you, but shortly after, it struck me how ridiculous and Disney-like the movie was. I think Roger Ebert said it best when he said it's soon to be forgotten, but it has its moments. It makes little sense, true, but it's pretty fun.  "},{"Title":"A job well done.","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was very impressed with MY FELLOW AMERICANS the first time I watched it. I was expecting the film to be horrid as it starred Jack Lemmon (which is great) but had James Garner in place of Walter Matthau. I thought this might create a problem, but no.The story is very fresh and original and the dialogue is witty and the film is filled with a biting sense of sarcasm. It is a touching film at that as well, because it teaches good life lessons about how you should not waste your time and just get right to living. The film has violence and action sequences (explosions, gun shots) that almost make it seem like an action comedy. But, no this is no action comedy. Just a good clean, fun comedy.The role played by James Garner is very well written and it seems that his role was written with Matthau in mind. But, Garner takes his place well and the film would not have been the same without him. Truly hilarious. MY FELLOW AMERICANS 4/5. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I see by other comments that My Fellow Americans has been compared to Grumpy Old Men and The Odd Couple.  Granted, two old guys bickering is not a new plot, but it's one that works very well for both Lemmon and Garner.  Jack Lemmon plays Russell Kramer, a typical republican ex-president, while Garner is a Clinton-esque Democrat (although I don't believe party affiliations are mentioned).There are many funny moments with few jokes that fell flat.  I still laugh when I think of the scene where Kramer mentions balls, and then apologizes to his wife (played by Lauren Bacall).  She replies with Please, I'm a politician's wife. I have a set of my own.I give it 8/10.  "},{"Title":"The Calm Life of Former Presidents Gets Interrupted.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood legends Jack Lemmon and James Garner star as former U.S. presidents (Lemmon Republican and Garner Democratic) who unwittingly become involved with political espionage as they become targets of someone within the new administration (Dan Aykroyd, Lemmon's former vice president, is now the commander-in-chief). Soon they are chased by bad secret service agents and constant assassination attempts also follow with would-be hilarious results. They also see America as they have never seen it before and learn that many of their decisions were not the best for those in the national public. My Fellow Americans is a watchable little film, but ultimately it does not completely succeed. The tone of the picture goes for laughs and then tries to educate those watching by showing how people in the highest of places can affect ordinary folks. This double standard just does not play as well as I would have liked. John Heard's character (as Aykroyd's vice president) steals every scene with his naive and silly antics. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"My Fellow Americans Avoid This Film.","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Fellow Americans (1996) Dir Peter Segal / Cast Jack Lemmon, James Garner, Dan Aykroyd, Lauren Bacall, John Heard Missed opportunity that rehashes road movie clichés. Title regards unity that must be set by two ex-presidents who do not seem to agree on anything. Jack Lemmon and James Garner play two former Presidents who hate each other but are brought together when scandal threatens their lives. What follows are typical clichés where they bicker before a predictable outcome. Director Peter Segal does well but he has made funnier movies such as The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult. Here the final insult comes at the hands of the screenwriter whose only aid is the effective leads. The production values are cheap and mainly rely on the two leads to spark any life into it. Lemmon and Garner form a fine chemistry. Lemmon is the money saver while Garner is a ladies man. Together they not only must band together, but they also face the harsh reality of life outside the White House. Dan Aykroyd is flat as the current President and Lauren Bacall as a former First Lady utters a few good one liners but otherwise she is underused. The film contains an inspiring message or reality check regarding society and its condition beyond the campaigns. Unfortunately it is a cliché filled road movie less entertaining than a campaign speech. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"Grumpy Old Presidents","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Former presidents Republican Russell Kramer (Jack Lemmon) and Democrat Matt Douglas (James Garner) are political enemies. They are forced to work together when they become the target of a conspiracy inside the present administration under President William Haney (Dan Aykroyd). Haney was Kramer's Vice President. Haney and his Chief of Staff Carl Witnaur (Bradley Whitford) plan to frame Kramer for the scandal.I don't really find the characters that funny or political jokes that sharp. However the two veterans do seem to have fun together. That fun is infectious. As for story, it's far-fetch. It's not until the helicopter that the movie loses all believability. One just has to forget about any realism. I doubt the Secret Service would lose two ex-presidents without much of a peep. There are way too many people after them. It becomes unreal that they keep giving them the slip. I'm not much of a big fan of the 'Grumpy Old Men' franchise and this is very much the same thing. "},{"Title":"Lemmon And Garner Work Well Together","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jack Lemmon and James Garner are two veteran actors who rarely disappoint with their performances. Their roles in My Fellow Americans are no different. They're both solid and professional, they're appropriately and not outrageously funny and they work well together playing former U.S. Presidents Kramer and Douglas respectively. Political rivals, one a Republican and one a Democrat, they loathe each other. Then, unexpectedly, they find themselves thrust into the middle of a scandal revolving around the current President, played by Dan Aykroyd, who sets out to use all the weapons at his disposal to kill them. Forced to team up, Kramer and Douglas are on the run together, searching for the evidence that will exonerate them.Yes, Lemmon and Garner were good. But the overall story? Well ... It had potential, but I honestly thought it was a bit weak. Somehow, it just didn't reach out and grab me. I found the pace a little off, and the story not entirely clear. It was worth watching, thanks to Lemmon and Garner, but those performances aside, I found this lacking. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Semi-Frantic.","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Interesting premise -- two genuine ex presidents (Lemon and Garner) on the run from a murderous cabal in the White House and the NSA. They accidentally find themselves in the middle of nowhere, somewhere in North Carolina, a state which is not ALL nowhere, and must somehow reach Lemon's Presidential Library in Ohio for the hidden evidence that will save them. The evidence is not there, so they must travel back to Washington somehow and meet the problem head on.That the evidence isn't there is symptomatic of the film's weaknesses. The whole trip from North Carolina to Ohio was pointless except that it gave the two ex rivals a chance to have comic encounters with red necks, the unemployed, illegal immigrants, and the like. The business with the imminent scandal about kick backs is just a peg to hang a funny adventure on. After enough amusing episodes you forget what the whole deal was about anyway and just enjoy the performances of Lemon and Garner. There are a few brief scenes of credible pathos too. More than once, Lemon almost breaks down when he looks in the mirror and notices that he's aged.And Garner is given a brief but bombastic flag-waving populist speech that's unconvincing, yet Lemon comments that if Garner had spoken like that during the debates, he, Lemon, would have lost by a wider margin. Lemon is sincere, but it would have been much funnier if he'd said that he, Lemon, would have WON the race. These guys are two throat-cutting rascals and yet the audience is supposed to applaud a lusty, go-get-'em panegyric that's straight out of the Boy Scout's Handbook.It has its diverting moments and gets a number of chuckles but it's determinedly lower middle-brow. It has some vulgarity but it's not used to great comic effect. The script flirts (twice) with the f word but doesn't use it. Mostly the situations and characters are cute. It all turns into an amusing action movie at the end -- at the happy end.The two principals are appealing, one a Republican, the other a Democrat, but the cracks are equally distributed between, say, Kennedy's womanizing and Ford's clumsiness. Garner is the more likable of the two, perhaps because he looks and sounds more like a political manipulator, and perhaps because it's sad to see how old and stiff Jack Lemon has become. Two ladies are on brief and welcome display, both stunning Marg Helgenberger and Sela Ward. The most compelling character is the villainous Everett McGill, the spawn of Demos. He has a skull-like face and his hair almost reaches his eyebrows. The arrangement doesn't leave much room for a forehead.It's not an insulting flick. It's not bad. But you can almost hear the joints creaking as it reaches for laughs, many of which elude it. "},{"Title":"This review may contain spoilers","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Who would of thought that two old men, well known actors Jack Lemmon and James Garner had such a sense of humor and could pull off such a funny, entertaining movie. Especially, having to play roles as two former Presidents of The U.S. Which of course, everyone thinks President's are always serious and would never say such things, like these two did. I have to admit, the beginning of the movie was quite boring and it lagged. Finally after awhile the fun begins and I could not stop laughing at these two the whole time they cracked jokes about each other. Every time something went wrong in their journey to solve the mystery that was going to put both of them in a dilemma,again they both could not help but to take cheap shots at each other, which were all hilarious.I was expecting Actor Dan Akroyd to be the main comedian in this movie but his part was far different from all his movies he ever acted in. That of course did not make a difference how funny this movie was. Once again, hail to the chiefs and all their funny moments throughout the movie. I definitely give this movie a 10! "}{"Title":"My fellow Americans","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Great movie that really captured my attention. when the film started it was kind of boring, but then the action began. i liked the part where they got into the gay march.what i most liked about this movie was when they found this family at the picnic and they stole their car. the appeared as nothing happened and the family didn't do anything to stop them. After a while they knew that a baby was in the back seat and they had to go back. In the whole movie i was thinking that they couldn't get caught. there were just a few exceptions, for example the beginning, it began kind of boring, i would change and make a funny part for the beginning. it was a really good movie and i will recommend it. I'm voting 8 out of 10 because as i said, the beginning was not that good. "},{"Title":"Really Good Film","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie shows what a funny film is supposed to be like. I like this movie because of its unique way of making us laugh, their way of making the script and how everything came together to make this movie one of my favorites original films.The selection of the actors was great. Jack Lemmon play his role really well and so did James Garner. They are both great actors and they clearly show that in this movie. What I also like about the movie is that it can be a movie not only for those who like comedy but also for those who don't. This movie is really just a movie that everyone can enjoy. "},{"Title":"Grumpy old presidents....","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Fellow Americans is not an especially deep or groundbreaking film--but it is marvelously entertaining. It's helped by very good dialog and very good acting to make what is essentially another road buddy picture stand out from the crowd.This film begins with a prologue. In this fictionalized world, the US has had two recent one-term presidents (Jack Lemmon and James Garner). Neither was especially popular and both hate each other and come from the other political party. And, now that they are no longer in office, they both feel a bit useless. However, when the rather amoral new president gets in trouble for ethics violations, he's easily convinced to simply blame it on one of his predecessors (Lemmon). But, when Garner accidentally stumbles into this, he, too, is now in trouble with the evil new president. It seems that the new president is more than happy to now set up BOTH ex-presidents--and soon Lemmon and Garner are on the run from agents who seem eager to kill them. Can they avoid these crazed agents and help expose the truth? And, can they manage to get along long enough to get this done? While this film occasionally has lapses in writing (such as the getaway on horseback and the very end of the film), much of the time the film works when neither ex-president is doing anything other than argue with each other. This makes the film seem a bit like Grumpy Old Men--and simply having the two fine actors gripe at each other is more than enough to provide laughs and some fine moments.By the way, if you do watch, pay attention during the horseback scene. You can notice that the faces of Garner and Lemmon was VERY clumsily pasted onto the stuntmen to make it look like they are doing the actual riding. It's amazing how much better such CGI has gotten since 1996. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable!","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I actually enjoyed this movie quite a lot. It was fun to watch Jack Lemmon again. I completely agree with Roger Ebert when he says ''My Fellow Americans' is a series of cheap shots and missed opportunities, but a lot of the cheap shots are funny and he describes the movie perfectly when he says James Garner steps into the role usually played by Walter Matthau, Jack Lemmon plays his usual grump, and 102 minutes of insult humor rolls painlessly past.Yes, it is a typical buddy movie and yes, we have seen it all before and yes, the screenplay is rather dumb, but nevertheless the film provides for 90 minutes of very decent entertainment. Nothing more, nothing less. "},{"Title":"This is a really good movie!","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just finished watching this movie on Netflix and I really enjoyed. I started watching it because I thought it was a historical movie but I was wrong and I'm happy about it. First of all I know Dan Aykroyd from many movies including Driving Miss Daisy. And of course I know Jack Lemmon from Grumpy and Grumpier Old Men. I also know James Garner from The Ultimate Gift. These three are very great actors in their own way and this movie was perfect for all three. But to me it did get a little confusing right around the middle but when the ending happened it cleared it all up. I suggest if your looking for a movie to watch but don't know which, go to Netflix and watch My Fellow Americans! "},{"Title":"It is What It Is - But Entertaining","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Thanks to Amazon Prime Streaming, I was able to check this movie out which I probably would never even watch on cable or rent on DVD. I saw it as a rental in the 90s and I thought it was OK then. But now, it's still funny and the politics are still funny. But don't think of this of a political movie. Think of it as a buddy movie with some political insight. James Garner and Jack Lemmon are great in this movie. I am not used to them swearing but they do and I can't help but laugh. You could call this Grumpier Old Men Go To Washington. It's funny to see how life might be like living as an ex-president. The movie was entertaining from start to finish. "},{"Title":"good movie.  Widescreen?","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is actually a fairly good comedy. Great cast too! The political satire is quite good. My only complaint is Why is this movie not available in widescreen? When it played it theaters it was almost certainly at least 185.1 if not not 235.1 format. Come on Warner Brothers, please make this movie available in widescreen, or better yet, widescreen Blu Ray. This says that my review must have TEN LINES! I've already said what I needed to say, why is it necessary to write a minimum of ten lines when what I wanted to say can be said in about half of that? This seems to FORCE reviewers to be much more wordy than necessary. Be sure to watch the bloopers in the special features, they are hilarious. Jack Lemmon could NOT stop laughing! Still not enough? Okay, to summarize good movie, under-rated. Should be available in widescreen though. Blu Ray widescreen would be best. "},{"Title":"A riot!","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Political comedies can be notoriously difficult to comprehend and/or stomach at the best of times, but this is a gem. Lemmon and Garner play it strictly for laughs, and hit the target on almost every occasion.The script may not be particularly subtle, and there is a propensity for cheap laughs with mildly foul language (save one utterance of an F word) - but there are some big big belly laughs to be had, not just in the witty script but also some nicely staged slapstick moments.A woeful bit of CGI when our two heroes are supposed to be on horseback is the only black mark against the production values - the pace is slick, the writing witty and inventive, the punchlines come thick and fast - and there's hardly a moment that comes anywhere near giving you 'the red ass'! Rent/buy and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Great Comedy Team Lemmon and Garner","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, its close to the time of changing presidents and this movie sprung to my mind to watch. My Fellow Americans is a great movie simply due to the team of Jack Lemmon and James Garner. As the two feuding ex-presidents they make this movie. Nothing is more comical than watching the two forced to sort through a recent scandal, along with an assassination plot on their lives, all the while a respect happens between the two, yet their disdain for each other adds to the hilarity of the movie. Lemmon and Garner not only carry the movie, you almost think of them as actually being former Presidents of the United States. It is a movie to just sit back and enjoy, a funny spin on American politics at it's best. "},{"Title":"Enormously Entertaining","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Fellow Americans boasts a well-crafted and quite funny script about two former presidents and longtime political rivals who must team up to expose a criminal scheme in which the sitting chief executive is implicated. Along the way, their efforts result in numerous farcically-staged attempts on their lives. That the screenplay works quite well in political thriller terms, with dramatically satisfying plot twists throughout, is rewarding enough; it's so much icing on the cake that the accompanying gags are equally strong, making this one of the most facile blends of suspense and comedy since the films of Colin Higgins. The screenplay's considerable entertainment value -- particularly for a political junkie -- is enhanced and brought to its full potential by solid direction and cutting, as well as the unassailable professionalism of a first-rate cast. The on screen chemistry and formidable comic timing of Jack Lemmon and James Garner as the former presidents, in their first and only screen pairing, is delightful, and thankfully so one or both dominate almost every scene in the film. They receive equally expert support from Lauren Bacall, demonstrating her rarely-exploited talent for comedy; Dan Aykroyd in an uncharacteristically restrained performance; and the always-solidly professional John Heard, as well as an extraordinarily sharp supporting cast studded with many familiar faces -- such as Wilford Brimley (China Syndrome), Sela Ward, and Esther Rolle of Good Times fame -- though not all are necessarily household names. Any lover of political satire or action-oriented farce will find this film's running time to be time well spent, and C-SPAN addicts -- provided that they have a sense of humor about their passion &#150; will be richly rewarded. "}{"Title":"Very funny AND gay positive","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Former Republican president Russell Kramer (Jack Lemmon) and former Democratic president Matt Douglas (James Garner) hate each other with a passion. Kramer is set up by the acting president William Haney (Dan Aykroyd) for taking a kickback in money that his head of state actually did. Douglas tries to help Kramer but they're soon running for their lives as the CIA sets out to kill them. And it's a comedy.Very funny movie. Garner and Lemmon play off each other well and their verbal sparrings are highlights of the movie. Their are jabs given at Dems and Reps (although the Reps get bashed more). There's also an incredible supporting cast including Bradley Whitford (years before The West Wing); John Heard as an idiotic vice president (an obvious parody of Dan Quayle); Esther Rolle as a White House cook and Lauren Bacall (shamefully underused) as Lemmon's wife. Aykroyd surprisingly underplays his role as the President. Also this film is extremely gay positive which gives it extra points in my book.**DEFINITE SPOILERS** The presidents are able to hide from the CIA in a Gay Pride parade; Dykes on Bikes (an actual group) get them to a library they need to use and a gay man (winningly played by Jeff Yagher) saves their lives at the end. **END SPOILERS** Funny, fast-paced, dramatic, gay positive...all in all a very good film. This bombed at the box office but it's well worth catching. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"For those who need a laugh about White House antics.","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Just plug in Bill Clinton (Douglas) and George Bush Sr. (Kramer) and this film is even more of a riot. These days when there is little in government to laugh about, this film shows you the absurdity of it all. Along with Dave and First Monday in October this film allows our perceptions of government to be turned on it's ear. Jack Lemmon is a hoot as the very conservative ex-president who over-uses the same trite speech for everything. Douglas, the charming liberal ex-president who is lost without a purpose. But someone in the White House comes up with an idea to frame them for a scandal that is about to hit the sitting president, Kramer's former Vice President played by Dan Akroyd. And lingering in the background is a bumbling idiot of a Vice President, played by John Heard, who makes Dan Quayle seem like a diplomatic paragon by comparison. An especially funny moment is when the two ex-presidents, on the run for their lives, end up in the middle of a gay pride parade. Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Very funny film.","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was not able to watch this in the theater when it was released. Too bad it was not a box office hit.I laugh my head off every time I watch it.Cast is perfect.Jim Garner was the best.Many lines I love.Go rent In The Line Of Fire again. When you dance with a panda, who leads? If they did not vote me I say Let them freeze. Douglas getting after Kramer about his love of money & all the books. Throughout the film, very funny.The tired, repeated quote Kramer says in all this speeches Dreams Are Like Our Children. If this was real life, yeah, that would be boring hearing that all the time. "},{"Title":"it could happen","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I recently picked up the DVD, other than it being screen format, the film was enjoyable. If a widescreen copy is available, it would be worth watching to pick up on the background details that dropped out with screen formatting.Garner and Lemmon's roles are not that unbelievable. The roles of Aykroyd and Heard, while possible, are unlikely. The story line was most entertaining. Though I might be wrong, I believe it would be harder for someone of presidential office to get away with something like that.Watching the way these two rivals became friends and worked together for a common goal was good. Though the friendship wasn't perfect, as seen as the end of the movie, it was workable. The underlying plot could be, Learning to trust each other.  "},{"Title":"My all times favorite","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw the ratings and I was shocked by the low ratings it got, then I read the user comments and I feel so bad that this excellent movie got such a bad review!!This was a wonderful movie, not just watching it once but worth keeping it and watching on holidays! I saw this movie 4 times and every time I enjoyed it to the fullest! The bathroom jokes are not actually the bathroom jokes, and comedy was pretty cleaner and a very excellent family entertainment!! A movie you can enjoy with ur friends, girlfriend and mom / dad.Comedy is non-stop, one keep laughing and I have to struggle every time to stop and listen so that I won't miss the next joke, and the issues addressed are pretty genuine and real.Story is marvelous, plot is great and locations are superb! (Oval house!!) I'd give it 11 / 10!!!! "},{"Title":"So What If It's Not Profound","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It was better than I expected with some very funny moments and an excellent cast especially Jack Lemmon and James Garner. Even the many implausible scenes were fun to watch (secret service agents stumped by the equivalent of look over there, and former presidents walking through Union Station unnoticed as long as they wear a trench coat). The only disappointment was that Lauren Bacall had such a slight role. Still it was very enjoyable and Lemmon and Garner are predictably great together.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although not the funniest film I've seen recently, My Fellow Americans stood up well.  Of course James Garner and Jack Lemmon are great actors and are well cast as two ex-presidents.  The script is quick witted and well paced although credibility falters a little along the way.Strangely the film has an excellent supporting cast with the likes of Dan Aykroyd and Lauren Bacall but not much is done with them.  Being cynical I could say that this film was a chance for past-their-prime actors to get some work.  I don't think that but I can see how it could be said. "},{"Title":"There aren't many films that made me laugh as much as this did","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I quite unsuspectingly watched this movie on the television, when there was a lack of anything better to do. Rated by most T.V. magazines as having 'an unbelievable plot', I can't say I was expecting anything great.But my expectations were all wrong. All wrong. Simply put, there aren't many films that made me laugh as much as this did. I found it utterly hilarious, pretty much from start to finish, and knew I had to get the video.Watching it again, especially after a long time, it was no less funny. In fact, I laughed so much at some of it that I missed what followed and had to rewind back to see it again.Put simply, this is a classic, a real classic. Plus, it has in small parts, some serious material added in. While some might have said this got in the way of the comedy, I thought it added to the point of politicians learning about life for the average American, so to speak.10/10 - For laughs, there isn't much that can rival this. "},{"Title":"an all out comedy for the family","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jack Lemmon and James Garner are perfectly cast as two has been American Presidents and Dan Aykroyd as the president. Jack Lemmon realises that he has been set up in a conspiracy, he is forced to team up with James garner. Lemmon and Garner work excellently together and providing the audience with plenty of laughs.as always it ends with a happy ending and even at the end of the film lemmon and Garner still dont like each other. John Heard Bradley Whitford, Leighanne Litrell, Everett McGill also star in this good and entertaining comedy.  "},{"Title":"I gave it a 7","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is not the best movie I have ever seen, but it isn't a bad film either. The $4 it costs to rent it is worth it. I laughed a lot during the film. It isn't realistic but it isn't supposed to be. If you are looking for a film with decent humor and many stars, this is it. "}{"Title":"Two ex presidents on the run.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time. The interaction between the two leads while they are on the run is hilarious.This is one of my all time favorites and I would highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Was a witty comedy","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought that My Fellow Americans was a delightful and witty political comedy for those of us out there who don't really know a whole lot about politics.  I thought it was really funny--but obviously you have to be in the mood to laugh and you have to pay attention.  I overheard someone saying that it was dumb, but it was really a very smart movie with some very funny scenes and lines.   "},{"Title":"A must-see comedy classic.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My Fellow Americans is possibly the funniest movie I have ever seen, and I never get tired of watching it. Funny lines follow each other in rapid succession, and James Garner and Jack Lemon are just perfect as the two ex-presidents who detest each other but are forced to work together to survive, and gradually learn to like each other...more-or-less. A very good supporting cast includes John Heard in a hilarious performance as a Dan Quayle lookalike Vice President, and Wilford Brimley is droll as the Democratic Party Chairman. The sight gags are as funny as the script. Highly recommended--hilarious, with a surprise ending. A must see! "},{"Title":"I really liked this one!!","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, My Fellow Americans was great.  The acting, in my opinion, was good. It was taped in the city of Asheville, North Carolina.  Asheville is the largest city in the western part of North Carolina.  A lot of things I saw had backgrounds that were from down the street, especially in the mall scene.  It was nice to say, Oh yeah, that is Swannanoa River Road... They picked a perfect time to shoot for the film, especially with the gay rights parade downtown.  I agree that sometimes the humor was adult-oriented, but not much. "},{"Title":"A movie for the times!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The comedic trio of Lemmon, Akroyd, and Garner was a perfect choice.  Kudos to the casting director.  With the recent scandals within our government it was a near perect time for this picture.  Placing Lemmon and Garner on a journey through nowhere created an excellent scenario for comedy.  I am especially fond of the scene where the pair were on the train.  I am not much for words, but if you are interested in a good movie with a bit of political comedies.  Take a moment to indulge yourself in this comedic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film really shows the flip side to the political market. Jack Lemmon and James Garner (No, Walter Matthau could not make this film because he was filming I'm Not Rappaport at the time) turn in fine performances as two rivaling ex-presidents on the run from assassins. The film has some good humor and the way these two pass around insults is hilarious. The whole journey from start to finish is a laugh riot all around. Go rent it quickly. Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Good political comedy, not great","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've read over some of the other comments posted here, and I must disagree with those who suggest that Walter Matthau might have played better against Jack Lemmon. I'm a long-time fan of James Garner, ever since his wonderful portrayal of Bret Maverick in the late 50's, and of course his later work in The Rockford Files. James Garner was far funnier in My Fellow Americans than Jack Lemmon, partly because Lemmon plays a better straight man most of the time. I didn't enjoy the bathroom humor that was overplayed in this film. But I did enjoy the give-and-take of the Democrat/Republican liberal/conservative jokes that permeated. I suspect that this aspect was probably more difficult for non-Americans to follow. I agree that Lauren Bacall (always a pleasure to see) and Wilford Brimley were wasted in this movie. But all-in-all it was fun to watch and I would recommend it to those who enjoy political and topical humor, and who like watching old pros in action.  "},{"Title":"Great Comedy!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My Fellow Americans is an underrated comedy classic. It mixes traditional Jack Lemmon comedy slapstick, social satire, and political thriller. It has many hilarious moments, notably the gay rights parade, Wayne and Genny, Long John Silvers. James Garner does well in a role you'd think would have gone to Walter Matthau "},{"Title":"Who said politics were not funny?","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  People may think of this movie as a dumb parody to politics, but it is actually funny. The political market today is filled with scandals and every other bad thing you can think of. This movie shows that there is a funny side to politics. Jack Lemmon and James Garner are hilarious in their roles as President Russell Kramer and President Matt Douglas, two ex-presidents on the run from assassins. On the way, they moan, and complain which happens to be quite hilarious. Never underestimate the power of politics. Sure it may be boring, but it can also be funny. This is one movie to rent for a weekend. If you do, be prepared for a hilarious weekend.  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable but I have one little problem","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a cute movie that was well put together but I have one complaint/suggestion-- I think the usual Lemmon/ Walter Matheauu would be better. Of course it's old, and the script might have some room for improvement, but I think that those two actors do very good together. Thank You "}{"Title":"This movie makes me proud to be an American!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is what politics should be! Bipartisanship to the max. And anything unpleasant is funny for most of us. Jack Lemmon and James Garner play ex-presidents Russell Kramer and Matt Douglas, who find themselves embroiled in a murder plot and have to go on the lam. Along the way, they keep bickering, and Douglas tells a Mexican immigrant an unsavory story about Kramer (I was twelve when the movie came out, and...well, let's just say that it's the sort of thing that would make a twelve-year-old laugh hysterically). Dan Aykroyd plays Pres. William Haney with all the sliminess that one would associate with a politician.Among other things, My Fellow Americans shows that Lemmon and Garner still could put on great performances even in their elder years, and so could Lauren Bacall, as Kramer's wife Margaret. Admittedly, the whole movie is pretty silly, but there's never a dull moment in any part of it. God bless America! "},{"Title":"It's good because of Garner","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  James Garner has become one of my all time favorite actors ever since I saw him in Maverick (the movie).His ironic portrayal of selfish and arrogant ex-prez is the only thing that lifts this movie above average.As for other actors, I never liked Lemmon, Aykroyd or that guy from Tween Peaks. They are all pretty annoying, but that works well for them in this movie.I never cared much for the silly plot as I don't care about american politics, I just waited till the run starts. The pursuit itself has some funny moments (immigrant sequence and gay parade sequence), but as in many Hollywood movies about government it gets rather pathetic when the ex-presidents run into a trailer family.Nevertheless, buddy-buddy scheme works pretty well and convincing here, with annoying Lemmon and appealing Garner as involuntary buddies. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really liked this movie, it made me laugh, and that was the point.  I became a really big fan of Jack Lemmon, and he and Garner had chemistry in this movie, although I am thinking that Lemmon was such a great talent that anyone could have chemistry with him.  Watch this movie, I think that you will like it, and if you don't, sorry.My rating *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Enjoyable pap &#150; silly nonsense but just about fun enough to be passable","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Two ex-Presidents of the USA, Kramer and Douglas are both bitter rivals, being one either side of the political spectrum but also having gone head to head on several campaigns.  When both are targeted for assassination by a sinister force within the present President Haney's government they join forces to evade capture.  They travel across America following clues to lead them to the identity of the conspirator and bring down Haney before they themselves can be made to become history.Ah, the odd-couple movie what a good genre &#150; oh, and the road trip movie, what a beauty!  Hey lets put the two together!  What a great idea!  And we'll get half of the original Odd Couple together with another star who needs work and make a great comedy!  It must have looked good on paper and in fairness some of this does come through on the screen &#150; but not much.  The plot is stupid from start to finish and the climax doesn't work because by then you've given up trying to take it seriously and had put it all to the back of your mind.  The jokes work reasonably well &#150; but don't expect more than smiles and chuckles.The cast is deep but all thought they were in different movies.  Garner and Lemmon are good together despite the lack of really strong material and they work well onscreen.  However too often the film slides into sentimentality for these once great men and that sours the mix a little.  Aykroyd is OK but not as comical as I'd want, while Heard is amusing despite an absurd character twist.  Bacal shows up for the cash and it's amusing to see Whitford jog alongside a vice-president just like he does in The West Wing!  McGill is good but his part of the film is the `serious, dramatic plot' and it doesn't gel at all with the odd-couple comedy that makes up all Lemmon/Garner's scenes.Overall this is pretty average but is just about amusing enough to be worth watching as long as you're not in a demanding mood.  Neither the comedy or the plot is great but the banter between the two leads is good despite the cloying sentimentality that creeps in to ruin it at times. "},{"Title":"delightful","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This delightfully funny comedy features the exploits of two former U.S. Presidents (and political/personal enemies) having to work together while on the run to uncover a scandal and clear their names. There might be a little too much bathroom humor, but it's all fun. The leads are delightful to watch, and the movie was altogether very funny with constant laughs and numerous great lines.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Presidents on the run","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jack Lemmon plays Russell P. Kramer and James Garner plays Matt Douglas, two former presidents who hate each other.They have to escape together from the crooks who want to kill the presidents. Dan Aykroyd plays the current president William Haney and John Heard is the vice president Ted Matthews.Lauren Bacall plays Kramer's wife Margaret.My Fellow Americans from 1996 is filled with good actors.The leading couple Lemmon and Garner are very charismatic as the former presidents.In the movie the presidents get into many hilarious situations.I'm sure none of the former presidents has been in a gay parade.Nobody knows where Bill Clinton has  been.This is a perfect movie to watch especially now because George W. Bush and Al Gore are desperately fighting who will become the next president of The United States.The movie doesn't contain too much of politics which makes it even better. I recommend My Fellow Americans for everybody who likes a movie with politics and who doesn't. "},{"Title":"hilarious spoof of American politicos","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I laughed all the way through this one. One could call it Grumpy Old Men Go To Washington, it bore such a resemblance. Two ex-presidents get into hot water when the sitting president sends a rogue NSA agent to eliminate them, to hide one of his shenanigans. The entire film was centered around these 2 old geezers trying to outsmart and elude the agent and his thugs. Very good performances by Lemmon and Garner. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought My Fellow Americans was a fantastic and a funny movie to watch. The movie was very well done i think. The actors who played the presidents were a perfect match. Jack lemmon was fantastic in the movie. He is my favourite actor because i think he is that kind, natural, caring person. Though now he's gone, he will always be remembered when ever someone talks about him, do a speech on him, or even when his movies come on tv again and again and again. He was a great actor and he never wanted to make movies that would be boring to the auidence. He waited for good scripts and he always did the great movies as well as the other actors. My favourite movies he starred in has got the be THE ODD COUPLE, GRUMPY AND GRUMPIER OLD MEN, OUT TO SEA. The great True Story movie he made has got to be Tuesday's with Morrie. I thought that movie was brilliant. It makes me cry whenever i like to watch it, Morrie i think was a great person and he gave Mitch (A pupil he teached) a message, Telling him IF YOU KNOW HOW TO DIE, THEN YOU KNOW HOW TO LIVE. That will be a message to all of us. Thank you Jack, you were a fantastic, a great, true person who was kind, helpful and brilliant. GOD BLESS YOU. "},{"Title":"Lemmon as an ex-president!","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A light-hearted,sprightly and limpid,if conventional and linear,flick,made by handicraftsmen.It comes in handy.-When you dance with a panda,who leads?-Do I have a choice?/-No./-Then,it's OK.-Get out of the chopper!/-The crops?Two petulant ex-presidents,Kramer (Lemmon,with his wry smile and cunning look ) and the charmer Douglas,are chased through the USA by the secret services.Lemmon's role as Kramer,as the other roles,is conventional and ready made.The cast is good (Garner, Mrs. Sela Ward) .The photography is fine.The humor is sometimes petty and flatulent,but its delivery is De luxe.My Fellow Americans makes game of the political fauna.The vice-president is a moron.It's not a great comedy,but it has a delighting,funny,light, savory, tasteful quality, something sympathetic, charming, sprightly, flavored, fluid, that makes it so highly enjoyable.We know the movie is made in the mid-'90s.Why?The Macarena is played nearly everywhere. "},{"Title":"The Death of our Country as Comedy","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Why do we have to be almost dead to be able to see what's going wrong, deadly wrong, with our republic? As we turn into a totalitarian state, movies such as this remind me of a time when the people were taught History, when there was something called 'morality' in this nation with hypocrisy being so attached to it.As usual, Gardner and Jack Lemon show what great comedy actors can do, as they portray 2 ex presidents who are being hounded by an evil C.I.A. group bound to destroy them, one way or the other.The fact that they have representatives of actual Americans in this movie, being deprived of their livelihood because of the rush to 'globalization' of our jobs shows the true patriotism of the writers of this movie. Lemon is dead now, and many of us in the 60s remember when we were a country to be proud of.No longer. And this movie details it using comedy, just as airamericaradio does to show the corruption. "}{"Title":"political comedy has a few good laughs","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Two ex-presidents are targeted for assassination by a corrupt president. Comedy-action flick pokes fun at politicians and the Secret Service. Brisk pace and effortless performances from veteran actors balance lightweight plot and script.  (Rating B+) "},{"Title":"My Fellow Americans","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A comedy with politicians I see is considered real hilarious, I think I have seen this movie first time last year, this movie made me think of Florida (when this was released at that time). At the end, I almost cried, because it made me think of Florida for the whole time I was watching this. "},{"Title":"Nothing Here...","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An uneven and poorly written comedy that tried to have Jack Lemmon continue his string of Grumpy Old Men-like films. This time without Walter Matthau, of course. Enter James Garner, a fine actor. Unfortunately, in this film, both actors are in bad material. They play former Presidents who are framed and thrust into murder, deception and political sabotage.Dan Aykroyd makes a lackluster appearance as the current President who is found dealing in illegalities. Most pathetic however is John Heard, doing the worst Dan Quayle impersonation ever. Lauren Bacall, Sela Ward and Wilford Brimley are all wasted in this poor, poor comedy. "},{"Title":"Possibly The Best Movie Ever Made!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie starring Jack Lemmon, James Garner and Lauren Bacall is funny and entertaining. Lemmon's gift of comedy is best displayed in this movie, with Garner playing in possibly his best comedic role of his career.  This is an outstanding movie all the way! "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Odd Couple in a road movie pretty much sums up what this movie is about.  It had some funny moments, and some very contrived and false moments about the greatness of being president.  It could have been much better (and more suitable for younger viewers) if it the two presidents didn't spend most of their time swearing at each other and using foul humor.  (Also notice how every single person in this movie knows to properly refer to an ex-president.)Still, one line near the end, Don't worry sirs, it's just me, the twisted psychopath, almost made it worth it.  "},{"Title":"Good combination of household names, bad material to go with them.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Of course we know by now that Jack Lemmon and James Garner are great comedic actors, but this is not the right material for them to flaunt their talents. There are more bathroom jokes in this film than are needed, and its subject is treated so shabbily, it's hard to believe these guys ever made it into the Oval Office. To go with that, the supporting actors like Lauren Bacall, Wilford Brimley, Dan Ackroyd, and John Heard are completely wasted, sitting around wondering what to do. I will admit I did get a few chuckles and even a stray belly laugh out of this farce, but if they try for a sequel to this hogwash, I'm going to ask the video stores to burn it right there on the counter for all to see. Now that's better entertainment! "},{"Title":"Thin, predictable; Garner is only high point","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Barely entertaining, extremely thin, predictable comedy with occasional heartstring pulls thrown in inexplicably. Everybody learns something valuable, good guys are good, bad guys are bad, and the ending is exactly what you'd expect.Jack Lemmon is decent in his role. Dan Ackroyd plays The Dan Ackroyd character, this time with an occasionally shifting Southern accent. James Garner was best cast and did the most with his character. His comedic timing was spot-on, particularly when one considers the weak material he worked with.I normally don't note special effects because I don't really care about them, but there's a scene with characters on horseback that is so unbelievably bad in execution that it might as well have been puppets. The bloopers on the DVD are worth watching, if only to get a sense of what it must be like to work with Lemmon and Garner. I found Garner's ability to maintain character impressive! But this is not a picture I need to see again. "},{"Title":"A train wreck of a political satire","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What a mess of a movie. I can't remember the last time I saw so many otherwise enjoyable actors rendered so much less fun to watch by incompetent direction and a mediocre script. The gimmick is that Lemmon and Garner are ex-Presidents, see, and Lemmon is the conservative who acts like a liberal and Garner is the liberal who acts like a conservative and they get stranded together and hijincks ensue and they learn important life lessons from their constituents and oh what the heck ever.I'm not saying it couldn't have been done well -- only that it wasn't in this case. Wag the Dog, Bob Roberts, The American President, and the real-life Presidency of George W. Bush are all superior efforts when it comes to relatively recent features that satirize the White House. "},{"Title":"that's hollywood for ya","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  hey I got an idea let's remake Tommy Boy but this time let's do it with 2 former presidents! these words were uttered some years ago when someone proposed this terrible comedy. I like short reviews dont you this movie gives new grounds to kill yourself on. "},{"Title":"Had potential, but...","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My Fellow Americans combines great actors and some occasionally good dialog with a sub-par story and bad direction. Heard gives the best performance as the dimwitted (so you think) vice president. Does anyone else think that the roles Garner and Lemmon had should have been reversed? All-in-all the film was a bad vehicle for the talent on display, especially in the case of Aykroyd who was never allowed any chance to display his comedic depth. "}{"Title":"To much vulgar language","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Starts funny but there are too many dirty words to enjoy. James Gardner and Jack Lemmon hate each other in this movie and gradually move on but in the process they refer to each other in terms like penis, d__khead sh__t ass it is just to vulgar. James Gardner is a former President as well as Jack Lemmom. James Gardner is a Democrat and Jack Lemmon is a Republican. James Gardner makes a deal with top Democrats to frame Jack Lemmon. Gardner thinks he will get party support to run as President again if he helps out in this frame up.Both end up being kidnapped and their life in danger.These guys are great actors and in their older years not bad. Jack Lemmon sounds very similar to Ronald Reagan when he speaks. What a waste of talent. "}]