[{"Title":"Loose Adaptation of the Book Works its Own Magic","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film, though nothing like the Daniel Defoe novel, was remarkably good. The tale begins with Flora, an orphan removed from her home in a convent in Europe, who is told that she is being taken to the Americas to become the ward of one Mrs. Allworthy, who is credited to have been the woman her mother served. Mrs. Allworthy's manservant and confidant, Hibble, is the one who is to both bear her to his employer, and also to read to Flora the diary of her mother, Moll Flanders, to explain her life to her.Robin Wright shines as the lost and ever soul-searching innocent Moll Flanders, who despite making many wrong choices in life seems to find her way to kind places again and again. Her unconditionally loving future husband, credited The Artist on screen but listed as John Fielding on this site, is played by John Lynch. Stockard Channing is Mrs. Allworthy, who we come to discover is the owner of a Bordello and is a manipulative woman who can sway any man into her power. Lastly, Morgan Freeman plays the part of gentle and world-wisened Hibble, and I think this is one of his best roles, as he interacts so swimmingly with Robin on camera.The movie is rated PG-13 for sexual situations, nudity and some violence. Despite the subject matter, the film charms the soul. I recommend lovers of Gothic literature to read it, and for people who love the book to give this story a chance as a separate entity. "},{"Title":"underrated film","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Morgan Freeman uses his immense talent to give varied facets to Mr. Hibble, Stockard Channing is deliciously evil as Mrs. Allworthy, and Robin Wright Penn shines like a diamond in the role of Moll Flanders. Even the child playing Flora does a charming job with her limited part. Some viewers complained that the film was slow moving, but i felt the transitions from modern day to flashbacks from the memoir written by the title character kept things moving along quite nicely. Having not read Defoe's book, I cannot compare it to this version, but members here seem about equally divided between hating the movie for not being true to the book, and feeling that the changes made are an improvement on the original. Personally, I'd recommend this movie highly to anyone who has time to watch it. "},{"Title":"A rather undelectable 18th century stew","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The performances in this film are, for the most part, worthwhile. Robin Wright is radiant, Morgan Freeman solid, and Stockard Channing makes the most of her role, to the point that I think it was worthy of an Oscar nomination. (Why is this woman's craftsmanship so underrated? I'd like to know...) And I liked John Lynch as the artist. But there are some really dull stretches here that might have been helped with more secure, tighter writing. This was a colorful era -- and the costumes and settings in the film seem appropriate -- but the story is so bland that I found myself nodding off from time to time. -- The biggest puzzle to me is  Why call it Moll Flanders after Daniel Defoe's book/heroine, when the story is ABSOLUTELY NOTHING LIKE the book? Overall, a disappointment. There's some good meat in this stew, but, in the end, it makes for only so-so movie-watching... "},{"Title":"Moll who?","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot of this film has nearly nothing whatsoever to do with Daniel Defoe's novel; in place of Defoe's brilliant and compelling heroine it substitutes bushels full of ersatz-18th century drivel, pretentious neo-Irish music, and annoying children. Nunneries in England? An unexplained Afro-British man sent on a mission to read a book to an annoying child across the sea? A charitable organization which adopts adult women only if they are virgins? I am certain that if one made a film of A Christmas Carol with no Scrooge, no Tiny Tim, and Bob Cratchit as an alcoholic schoolmaster with an illegitimate one-legged daughter living in Sweden, viewers would complain that the story had gone missing -- why not here? It's a shame, as Morgan Freeman gives a memorable performance even in a role which seems dislocated from history, novelistic and actual. "},{"Title":"Emotionally driven","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A tale of one woman's journey through her own life of desperation and consequence.  This film follows the heroine, Moll Flanders, through her diary left to her daughter via its caretaker Hibble played masterfully by Morgan Freeman.  A true testament to the indomitable spirit of mankind, or in this case womankind.  I highly recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"Bah!","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yet again Hollywood takes a literary classic and entirely reworks it. The daughter of a thief, young Moll is placed in the care of a nunnery after the execution of her mother. However, the actions of an abusive priest lead Moll to rebel as a teenager, escaping to the dangerous streets of London. No, this doesn't happen at all. The novel she is handed off to family when her mother is sent to plantations a much more common sentence for criminals at that time when their crime was petty. Further when she was given to family of her mother she then made her way in to the hands of gypsies before being found in Colchester having run off and being taken in by the local Parish. Not the streets of London right off the bat. Completely different tone, I understand the need to revise a work for the screen as it may be unworkable from it's original form but this is just an example of another movie where they've reworked the material needlessly and changed the subject matter much to the detriment of the work making the character much more sympathetic. Sad thing is it's a habit of Hollywood that will surely not change. "},{"Title":"Talk about taking liberties with the story","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The main problem with this film is that it calls itself Moll Flanders. It has very little to do with the Defoe novel. Moll Flanders, who in the novel appears as a resourceful, intelligent, fun-loving and talented woman is transformed here into a helpless fallen angel who has little control over her own fate. There is no mention in this film of her many husbands (as well as the clever ways she obtained them), her thieving career, her other children, her mother and brother, and generally everything else in the novel that was entertaining and meaningful. Robin Wright Penn is boring and anemic in a role that demands the opposite. Sentimental Hollywood has never before ruined a good story with such skill. If you want to get the full flavor of this great novel, do yourself a favor and watch instead the British adaptation with Alex Kingston, also from 1996. "},{"Title":"Outstanding in every way","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very special. Congratulation to everyone who was involved ! Most of the credit is due to Robin Wright in the title role of Moll Flanders. She gives one of the most memorable performances in movie history. So please sit back and enjoy the godsend on-screen-presence of Miss Robin Wright. Her talent and beauty is a gift to the movies and should be honored with more than just the Golden Satellite Award nomination she received for playing this challenging and complex part with such a brilliance. The movie owes its authenticity to her excellent acting abilities.The part of Hibble is played by the gorgeous Morgan Freeman. He is not only very believable but also very strong and equivalent to the remarkable Wright.To give you an impression of the richness and elegance this film contains, I will describe some of the most poignant moments of this masterpiece-When Morgan Freeman reads the memories of Moll to her daughter, his voice suddenly changes into Robin Wright telling her story from her birth to running away from the convent. When she escapes this prison you live to see one of the most illustrious scenes in movie history crowning in her fountain-bathing (movie cover).-Another very special moment is when the artist (John Lynch in a wonderful performance) asks Moll what she expects from life and she answers  Nothing any more. When she tells him that, Robin Wright is both breathtaking and lovely. Expressing a feeling was never more credible before.-Robin Wright also copes superbly with whe difficult situation when Morgan Freeman tells her that he didn't find her baby. This is a very emotional and toughing scene.-the thunder-storm-sequence is full of tension and very realistic-Robin Wright dancing in front of her adoptive family is a gift from director Pen Densham to his viewers. His ability of both giving Robin Wright enough room to develop her character and never losing track of his own ideas is unique. Would have deserved at least a best director nomination...-One of Robin Wright's most enjoyable scenes is the one where she refuses a piece of jewellery to confirm her love for John Lynch. All my life I dreamed about this moment...but no one can separate me from this man, unless he wants me to leave him. I love him enough to do that. But you can't buy me... This is one magical moment in movie history.-When Stockard Channing's Mrs. Allworthy (she is unique, too) and Robin Wright's Moll Flanders meet for the first time, you are part of a magic moment, too. It's both funny and heart rending to see Moll netted by the villain.Although the movie is a false interpretation of Daniel Dafoe's classic book, it tells a timeless and classic story about one woman's unbreakable spirit (that's what the cover tells you and that is true), so don't miss the opportunity to see this irresistible and convincing film and enjoy the full cast Robin Wright in a performance awards are made for, Stockard Channing and Morgan Freeman.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"energy crisis","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Daniel Defoe would be mortified if he knew that his delightful novel, full of energy and wisdom, was the basis for this plodding, sentimental film. Stockard Channing is delightful to watch in her role... if you mute the sound, so that you aren't forced to endure the dialogue.Other fine actors are wasted also, including Morgan Freeman looking like he's costarring in Battlefield Earth and knows it. Use this film only as a cure for insomnia. Watch the 1995 British made-for-tv adaptation instead; it does everything right that this film does wrong. "},{"Title":"A sentimental, but enjoyable movie.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I watched Moll Flanders, it was impossible not to cry... it's just one of those movies.  A sweet and sad film, the title character was excellently played by Robin Wright.  Some might find it overly emotional, but I found it very enjoyable in its tenderness.My only displeasure with this movie is that it is not true to the story in Defoe's wonderful novel Moll Flanders; it is true to the novel only in the spirit of the character Moll Flanders.  To say the movie was a loose interpretation is not adequate; it's much more of a new story using the old character of Moll Flanders.Defoe's work has a different (and I find, more entertaining) style as well as a richer plot line.  Mobil Masterpiece's presentation of Moll Flanders (with Alex Kingston in the title role) is much truer to the novel.  I found it much more entertaining and much less sentimental.  However, it doesn't have the gut-wrenching emotion of this Moll Flanders.  Each viewer will have to pick their own favorite. "}{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Defoe's original novel, even after all these years, is funny, sad, entertaining and fast-moving. The film is basically only sad, with little resemblance to the novel. It is also dreadfully slow in parts. Some of the acting is good- Stockard Channing makes an excellent Madam, and Aisling Corcoran as the little girl is splendid, producing the few flashes of humour, and there are some very nice cameo parts from well-known British and Irish actors. However, Morgan Freeman (normally a very good actor) seems to have a rather variable accent and to be wondering how he got into this film (not quite Dick van Dyke in Mary Poppins, but...), and Robin Wright doesn't really convince me as a lower-class London girl. The costumes and settings give a good impression of what must have been a much less colourful world- particularly effective are the candle-lit indoor scenes. We get an interesting glimpse of the life and customs of late 17th-century/early 18th century England. However, there are some strange anachronisms- for instance, according to the novel, Moll was born in about 1614, but the clients at Mrs Allworthy's house seem to pay with bank-notes, which would have been extremely unusual at that time. Also I doubt that any little girl (even a feisty one like this) brought up in a Catholic orphanage would have used such strong language. This is nit-picking, I know, and it's only a film, but it's a pity that, with a bit more attention to the story-line and the script, the film could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Ehhhh!!","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Long movie. Direction good. Photography good. Robin Wright is beautiful. She was the saving grace of the movie. Stockard Channing and Morgan Freeman did not need to bother with their roles. Anyone could have played their parts. You sometimes wonder what well-known and/or talented stars are thinking when they choose to play certain roles. Do they REALLY need the money badly enough to lose favor with their fans?? Screenplay was OK. The movie progression was V E R Y slow! John Lynch, Moll's lover/husband played his role well. It rained and was cold the day I watched this movie, so I stuck it out to the bitter end. A nap would have been more rewarding! "},{"Title":"mawkish trash","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  They just showed this on tv - utter trash. *Catholic Nuns* running an orphanage in early 18th c London? A very few scenes were well shot, but overall this is just mawkish sentimentamerican  tv-fodder... honestly.... "},{"Title":"It should have been good!","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is only barely similar to the book, The Fortunes and Misfortunes of the famous Moll Flanders written by Daniel Defoe and published in 1722. So if you've read the book don't worry about it spoiling the movie for you. In fact the movie is spoiled all by itself. What a waste of time.Yes, the cast is good and I think they did as much with this movie as they could. A story like this one is takes skillful telling and this seemed to be put together no better than Frankenstein's monster. Just one scene attached to another from beginning to end.Even in the book Moll Flanders was not a sympathetic character but I believe they do try to make her one in the movie. They failed. Moll in the movie flows from one moment to the next without ever really taking charge of her life, very unlike the character in the book.The entire movie is no better than the average television soap opera. Characters display extreme emotions that didn't seem realistic and too often without us really understanding why. Groundwork was not laid for many of the scenes and so the movie left me wondering 'why did they do that' for about two seconds. And then I realized I really didn't care.A good cast and a movie based on a good book, it really should have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Totally Under rated","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is my favorite historical movie ever. It follows the story of a woman named Moll Flanders, whose story is told through a diary given to her daughter. Moll is the daughter of a thief who was hung hours after her daughter's birth. She was raised in a convent, but ran away from there after being molested by a priest. She later becomes a prostitute and the movie follows the joys and misfortunes of her life after that.With a cast like this one, you can't really make a bad movie. Robin Wright, who most people know from The Princess Bride, stars as Moll. Morgan Freeman, most recently in Million Dollar Baby, plays Hibble.I give this movie ten stars and consider it a must-see for anyone who enjoys historical movies. It is an especially nice alternative to the 2004 version of Vanity Fair, since this movie is far better. "},{"Title":"Sweeping tale but Robin Wright is a bit old for the role.","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an epic and unexpected period tale with some rather out of place modern touches to the story. It covers quite a sweeping journey from orphanage to whorehouse to art to class differences to the New World. Whatever the differences from the novel, it is a moderately watchable movie.There are some hits and misses with the casting. Robin Wright in the title role is a bit old for the role - when she tries to play a virgin wench it's a bit frightful. Might have been better to use a different actress for the earlier part and then switch to her. Stockard Channing is suitably grotesque as the madam. Morgan Freeman is watchable even though his accent is neither here nor there. The English cast is more convincing but I guess they needed some international names for box office draw.Overall worth a watch but not a great movie. "},{"Title":"It could have been so much better!","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I normally love period dramas, particularly those that enable me to travel in time to another time and place and experience, for a moment, what life was like in those times. I also like movies with an English/Scottish/Irish setting, so I looked forward to seeing this movie. Sadly, I was disappointed. I did not read the book this movie was based on, but based on reading the reviews here, I get the picture that the movie hardly resembled the book. Much of the plot did not make sense - this must have been the parts that the movie makers changed from the original. When plot does not make sense, the movie loses credibility. The performances were fine, but in general I felt that great talent had been wasted or not utilized to its potential. The movie features some really good actors who deliver good performances, but it's not enough to compensate for the inconsistencies in the storyline and what appear to be historical inaccuracies. The relatively happy ending is about all that was enjoyable about this movie. "},{"Title":"not an adaptation, but an entertaining film","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nothing like Defoe's book, this simply uses the character of Moll Flanders to create a completely different story - true, there is still the thieving and the prostitution, but that's where the similarities end.Robin Wright is a spirited Moll and is well supported by Morgan Freeman as a slave she meets on her travels who looks out for her from then on, and Stockard Channing as a scheming brothel madam. Aisling Corcoran plays Flora, the daughter Moll abandoned, and who she leaves her story to inform her of her origins.A little muddled, and no doubt a disappointment for those wishing to see an adaptation of the book (for this, see the excellent version with Alex Kingston made the same year), this 'Moll Flanders' nevertheless looks great and benefits from a great performance from Wright. Well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Moll Flanders is a good, strong woman who was dealt a lousy hand at birth.","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a period piece, set in the 18th century. There are lots of characters but only 4 that really count. The actors who play these 4 must really be good, and they all are. Mostly paced deliberately, with little action, it pays off for the patient viewer who likes to read a good book or watch a good story unfold.Robin Wright Penn is the central character Moll Flanders. She was born to an imprisoned woman, who was hanged right after. Moll was raised in orphanages and foster homes, but eventually found herself at a home with a red light in front, a brothel. That she eventually became a working girl out of necessity also resulted in her escape from that life. Morgan Freeman is Hibble, and for most of the story is seen finding and escorting via carriage a young girl of 9 or 10 from an orphanage to an unknown destination. He is to read to her along the journey from a journal. It was written by the mother the girl never knew, and who we find is Moll Flanders. It is his reading from this journal that we begin to see, as the movie, told in a flashback format.Stockard Channing is Mrs. Allworthy, the madam of the brothel, and the mother figure that Moll never had. But she is also the one who auctioned off Moll's virginity.The fourth key character is John Lynch as the Artist. He shows up at the brothel long after Moll had become undesirable. He was looking for a girl, the cheaper the better, for he had not much money. We find out later that his father is wealthy, but this artist had gone off on his own to make his career. He only wanted Moll as a model, and not to sleep with. Good story, good movie, the cinematography is outstanding.SPOILERS Hibble is to take the girl to the new world, America. In a flashback the artist, now her husband, had died and we see that struggling Moll had left her daughter temporarily in the care of a friend, but when Mrs Allworthy showed up unexpectedly and captured Moll to bring her to the new world, the baby was left behind. We also see that the ship encountered a storm and was shipwrecked and, as Hibble narrated, The name of Moll Flanders went down with the ship. Which was a giveaway to the ending, Moll Flanders didn't die, only her name. Mrs Allworthy actually died and Moll took her name, and her fortune. Hibble was her ally. The movie ends with Moll and her daughter being reunited. "},{"Title":"The 1725 novel's Moll Flanders is MUCH more interesting","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's perfectly apparent reading though a number of these user comments that almost none of those reviewers have read the novel. I share with another reviewer the view that a movie need not necessarily stick closely to the text that originally inspired it, and sometimes with some novels almost cannot and remain coherent or at all tight. Some movies are better than the novels their based on and others although they stray quite far afield are comparably good.There was no necessity to junk the original here though, and what's much more important, the result is FAR, FAR less interesting than the original, even considering just the story itself and not so much language, etc.Though this is I think quite a good movie, with strong acting, it's also a thoroughly conventional story. OK it's still somewhat unusual (though hardly unique) for the feminist heroine to have done considerable time as a prostitute (calling her a whore is entirely within the sense of the novel but seems contrary to the ultimately squeaky clean feminist spirit of the movie) but she was after all an orphaned little girls escaping clerical rape and pedophilia in the movie version, had few options, and didn't know what she was getting into (that last does mirror the book). But otherwise it's a thoroughly conventional tale that hardly strains our sympathies for Moll or makes us wonder how she kept or ever rediscovered her heart and soul &#150; as the book most certainly does do.You see my problem is that not only could a movie have closely followed the plot and events of the novel (chopping some side stories of course), but it would have been a FAR, FAR more interesting film if had. Defoe's (he also wrote Robinson Crusoe) famous subtitle may give you some flavor The Fortunes and Misfortunes of Moll Flanders, &c. Who Was Born in Newgate, and During a Life of Continu'd Variety for Threescore Years, Besides her Childhood, was Twelve Year a Whore, Five Times a Wife (Whereof Once to her Own Brother) Twelve Year a Thief, Eight Year a Transported Felon in Virginia, at Last Grew Rich, Liv'd Honest, and Died a Penitent. The novel's Moll wasn't just a whore, but determined to become a damn good and successful one. She threw herself into her work unreservedly &#150; unlike in the movie. She was an enthusiastic thief, with her own rationale and justification. She married five times, often with a gold diggers purpose. She ended up in colonial Virginia in its early days, when fortunes could and were being made by all kinds of clever people (though almost always by men), and made hers from a beginning there as an indentured servant (as a judicial punishment), that is, a quasi slave for a period of a few years.The Moll of the novel was a true female adventurer. Like most males who have been through and seen so much, and who had risen based on her cold calculations about people and by using people and their weaknesses, we wonder if she can ever really feel again, but she can and does, when she gets some security. The real Moll Flanders is a fascinating female figure, and to write so sympathetically (though not without some deprecating and ironic asides from time to time) was truly revolutionary in the early 18th century. History of literature aside, she remains a fascinating character &#150; much more so than this movie's rather Disney feminist heroine, who never wants to do any of the bad things she does and stops doing them as soon as she possibly can, consistent with her love commitment, etc., etc.Interestingly when a movie was done of Tom Jones, who was in some ways a rather similar if a bit less sympathy challenging male character living in more or less the same time period, the movie stuck much more closely to the original story - and that film was done some thirty-five years earlier. Those two characters, Moll Flanders and Tom Jones were perhaps the two most notorious sexual rakes of the highly popular early English novel. Too bad the even more interesting female rake is so toned down for full or facile feminist hagiography purposes, I suppose &#150; that is to say, for full enthusiastic acceptance by the widest possible contemporary female and other audience.I only hope someone will do a movie that is or could be entitled The Real Moll Flanders. "}{"Title":"The only thing REMOTELY similar to the book was the title of the Movie","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen many bad interpretations of books, but this one takes the cake in that it bears NOT EVEN ONE piece of a shadow of a resemblance to the book it is supposed to be based on. It leaves one to wonder where on earth this story came from and why bother using the title Moll Flanders at all? Maybe the producers needed to do that in order to keep the money happy? I am flabbergasted, especially since I know and own the vastly superior Masterpiece Theater version starring Alex Kingston that is such a faithful and wonderful interpretation. (I highly recommend THAT version, if you can find it. It's out of print and the reworked 'Fortunes and Misfortunes of Moll Flanders' is a bit tampered with, though also OOP)Despite everything, I found the film, apart from the inexcusable deviations, enjoyable in itself. There are preposterous things that could have never happened in that century, which others have already gone into in their reviews, but the story and movie itself is not actually ALL that bad, and there is some excellent work by crew and cast...which is why I gave it some stars. The acting was superb, and the visuals and costuming were a real treat. Bravo to the actors and the costumers. Though overly sentimental and awkwardly structured, the story was serviceable and enjoyable, overall, too, if you allow a little liberty with the realities of the time period, and the ridiculous notion that the story was ordered to be told to the child.I do have a big complaint, as a visual artist myself, about the paintings that were supposedly the work of Moll's artist-husband. I hate to say, but the artists' paintings should have been much better executed. Though John Lynch's character was supposed to have been an artist who was struggling and always frustrated by his efforts, the execution of an trained artist of that time would have been more mechanically sophisticated, unless he was a primitive self-taught, which, given the well-heeled upbringing of the character, doesn't seem very likely, as lessons in the arts and sciences were common education for the wealthy of that period. The artist was meant to be struggling with the expression of the spirit and essence of the model, not the actual mechanics of the paintings. It is clear in the dialogue that he was struggling to express something finer and deeper about the model, which is more of a metaphysical matter. He says himself, when complimented on how good the painting is, that it is all mechanical. I believe the designer and the scenic artists sadly misinterpreted the intent of this part of the script, or they just did not have the capabilities or resources to produce the right sort of paintings, which, along with a certain clumsiness in the script, makes the whole premise fall flat. It is too bad because it is one of the better parts of the story.I give this film four stars. If you enjoy films of this type, do yourself a favor and see the vastly superior Masterpiece Theater version of the book. You won't be sorry you did! "},{"Title":"Did Defoe write two Moll Flanders","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What a travesty! I was expecting a remake of the charming 1965 version staring Kim Knovak. This mess bore no relationship to the novel which I enjoyed so much. Definitely not for Defoe fans. It is difficult enough to abridge such works as Moll Flanders and the recently released Vanity Fair so I'm prepared for some liberties to be taken but I think the fundamental themes and tone of the original work should be maintained. This is certainly not the case with this version. Incidentally, Robin Wright is a sad disappointment in the portrayal of one of the most interesting and like able characters of English Literature. She is far too wooden and not nearly attractive enough. Sorry Sean. "},{"Title":"Under rated","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Over all, I thought that Moll Flanders was a good movie. It is a little slow moving. That's the only complaint though. The story revolves around Moll Flanders. She's a slave whom goes into prostitution. And one of her customers happens to fall in love with her. They also have a child together. The movie is just about her life. But it's very heart warming, and I think any woman would enjoy it. If you enjoy Morgan Freeman or Robin Write, this is one of their best performances. I'm a little surprised with the rating. But, I guess you can't win them all. I would recommend Moll Flanders.7/10 "},{"Title":"read the book instead","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dafoe's 1722 book, from which this movie is supposedly based, is one of the most important works of the 18th century.  It explores the then-new possibility of reinventing oneself in the city.  By contrast, people in pre-urban times were constrained by circumstance and family -- everyone in your village knew you so you couldn't make up a new persona.In the movie, a sentimental Moll wades through a heap of anachronisms.  She remains more or less a prisoner of her past and conventional morality at all times.  The movie claims that only the character and not the plot is based on Dafoe's book but it is tough to recognize any aspect of Dafoe's Moll here.  Which I guess brings us back to considering the movie on its own terms.  Imagine Titanic without the special effects (i.e., maybe a good movie for a 14-year-old girl). "},{"Title":"Where did this come from?","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was so excited when I saw that there was a movie version of Moll Flanders. It is, perhaps, my favorite book of all time. I put on the movie, curled up w/ some popcorn and a drink, and waited to be awed. Well, I was awed, but not in a good way. This movie had absolutely nothing to do with the book! The only thing it has in common is the title, and the fact that Moll's mother had given birth to her while in prison. Other than that- nothing! Moll was NOT a prostitute, like the movie portrayed. Granted, in the novel, she did go through husbands quite quickly. But they were marriages! If I had never read the book, I would have deeply enjoyed this movie. I love all the actors in the movie. Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite male actors. But, I ended up yelling at the TV during the entire movie. I was fortunate enough to see the 1996 British TV version starring Alex Kingston. That was remarkable, and very accurate. I would suggest to everyone to see this version! "},{"Title":"A well-acted epic drama","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Moll Flanders brings back storytelling in a compelling way.  The cast perfectly portrays the characters, resulting in a film that will keep you enthralled until the very last minute.  A perfect movie for anyone who believes in destiny. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near the book, but even better!","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 99% of the time I'm a staunch purist. A classic book should be portrayed on film as close to the original as possible, leaving room for the necessary conversions of text to screen. That being said, there are exceptions to every rule, and this movie is one of them.I had not read the book prior to watching this movie, but had read IMDb reviews that it was far from accurate, so I was skeptical going into it. The movie, in fact, was outstanding! I was riveted, drawn into the story, and anxious to find out what happened next. It was fascinating and intriguing. I think the best comparison I can make with it is a Dickens story set about 150 years earlier than his books. It's dark and gritty, highlighting the lowlifes of society and the shortcomings of the society that contributes to make these lowlifes. Yet there is considerable irony and a bit of humor to counteract the darkness. Love, life, death, joy, grief, sickness, deprivation, aspiration.... It is in short a microcosm of life as it is today, but through the window of days past. One feels the emotions that the characters are experiencing, because they are feelings we've already experienced ourselves. However, although this movie is frequently tragic, it is not a tragedy. I could not recommend it so highly if it was, because I don't like to walk away from a movie feeling depressed. I liked the movie so much that I began reading the book that very night, and I finished it 8 days later. Where did the book differ from the movie? It would be easier to state where they resembled each other! I would have been hard-pressed to see any similarity between the two had they been published under different titles. For one thing, the book covers the title character's entire life up past the age of 60, whereas the movie only takes her up to maybe 30, and what goes on in that time frame is widely different from what goes on in the book.In the movie makers' defense, they do have in the opening credits the following caveat Based on a character in a novel by Daniel Defoe. Okay, so it's based on the CHARACTER of Moll Flanders, not on the story itself. That's a legitimate, though tiny-print, concept. However, even the CHARACTER of Moll Flanders in the movie is quite different from the book. One big digression (out of many) is that movie-Moll has strong paternal, motherly characteristics, whereas book-Moll has essentially none. Secondly, Moll's name isn't even really Moll in the book; it never tells us her real name, and Moll Flanders is merely one of her many aliases, and one that she doesn't pick up until her 50s.I can't possibly go into all the digressions. It would be boring and overextend the 1000 words limit. Suffice it to say, there is scarcely a shadow of similarity between the one and the other. If you have read the book, disregard the title and watch this as its own entity. If you haven't read the book, no need to worry about seeing any spoilers that might ruin a future reading. There is almost no overlap.However, in spite of this sin of gross inaccuracy, I LOVED the movie, and I thought the book was only mediocre. The movie had a great plot development; the book has almost no plot. It was first published in 1722 and, like much early fiction, is mostly just a chain of events. We are told the many escapades of Moll Flanders, but there is no real story arc. (I'm not saying don't read it, just know what you're getting into; it's interesting, but not terribly fulfilling as a novel, in the modern sense of the genre.) I was impressed with Robin Wright's performance (as Moll). I had thought little of her acting in Princess Bride, and almost didn't watch the film because she had the title role; but she did a much better job in this film, and showed a much fuller range of acting ability and emotion. The other actors also filled their roles superbly. And the settings and costumes were magnificently done.One thing that may affect your opinion of this movie is the content. By all standards I've ever watched, this ought to be R-rated. It's not extremely explicit (hence it is not in fact R), but it is considerably so for a PG-13, and I would be cautious showing this to young viewers. Not just for sexuality, but also for some rather graphic scenes (including blood) and overall mature themes.However, for a mature viewer I think this was a fantastic movie with a great storyline. It's very thought-provoking, and the impression of it still lingers with me a couple weeks later. The writers used Defoe's book as a springboard to better ideas and a more cohesive and rewarding story. It would have been more accurate to have said that it was inspired by Defoe's book, rather than based on, but it is one of those rare cases where the movie is in fact better than the book. "},{"Title":"The movie deals with adult content so it is NOT a family film to be watched by minors.","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Moll Flanders is a movie best enjoyed by those who are 18 years old and older. The movie deals with adult content so it is NOT a family film to be watched by minors. In some ways the movie has some romantic ideas. However, I guess the movie could be about the overall cruelty of the world and how to survive in it especially if you are a poor woman in Victorian England. This is no different a theme than in many other movies. I felt that Stockard Channing did a good job in acting and making the viewer understand and believe her character. I always like Morgan Freeman, but he is always good at acting. Because of the adult nature of the film, it might be best enjoyed late at night with one's significant other. Although the overall plight of women has changed over time, in many ways the overall plight of uneducated and poor women has not. Although the movie is enjoyable, it does not leave a lasting impression like a good glass of wine or a good meal might. The next day refresh yourself in another mother. This one is easily forgettable. "},{"Title":"Captures the Spirit of the Time","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie has excellent acting, excellent photography, excellent music and a fascinating story. The complaint that it is not the Daniel Defoe novel seems absurd James Whale's Frankenstein is not Mary Shelley's novel, but it is still a great movie.Robin Wright, Morgan Freeman and Stockard Channing are all terrific as nearly everybody notes, but we should also give credit to Aisling Corcoran who plays Moll's daughter, Flora. She gives one of the most spirited and believable children's performances ever. It reminds me of Dakota Blue Richards' performance in the Golden Compass. This film shows the tremendous hostility the upper class had towards both women and the poor in 18th century England. It is a good representation of the times. I show it as an example of the time period when I teach Humanities courses. It is also a great example of a strong woman character who develops her own moral standards. So it is especially recommended for teenage girls. "},{"Title":"Great period piece of perseverance and resolution","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like period pieces of redemption / revenge / resolution after long struggle through hardship and injustice (for example, Count of Monte Cristo, Shawshank Redemption, Red Violin) you will like Moll Flanders.Robin Wright does a great job and is as beautiful as ever. Aisling Corcoran, who plays young Flora, is skilled beyond her years. Morgan Freeman also does a pretty good job, although this role does not seem to draw on his talents as much as Moll brings out greatness from Robin.I saw it on free-on-demand, but it's worth a rent for sure if you can't get it free in your area. "}{"Title":"Sappy","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A sappy and predictable movie that paints its two main characters as just about the noblest people who ever lived (yawn).  The only thing that saves it from being a total disaster is an amazing performance by Stockard Channing as an evil but extremely sexy madam who employs Moll. "},{"Title":"This was a visual appealing film with a particular sensitivity to the unique world view of an traditionally artistic personality.","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is underrated. It has more to offer than noted. It focuses on life in a society where the haves lead an entirely different existence/reality than those who have not. Though apparently dated somewhat earlier it is reminiscent of a Dickensian message. Like Dickens it endeavors to point out that not everybody fits a mold, yet in a society where humanist values are lacking, the selflessness of a few are not enough . The complaint that it is rather slow is apparently based on the fact that time was invested into character development. In that way it is more like a European film than a fast paced American production. Its not an action film and should not be judged in comparison with that genre. It would have been impossible to tell the story without the time invested in plot development. It was a revealing and visually beautiful story -- some lovely imagery - vignettes that linger for just long enough to communicate the portrayal of a classical painting - a momentary shift from film to traditional visual art. The film was multifaceted.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an excellent movie, if you like movies taken place back in the day. Ive seen it about a million times and almost have it word for word, even though its a long movie its still one of my favorites. (and you would take me to your mistress, bloody hell) "},{"Title":"Tasteless sort of boredom.","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie when it came to TV, trying to catch the interest that it may have. But actually I found a 20th century mentality wrong placed in the 18th century, too many stereotypes to consider this film really good, vulgarity used as a sample of good acting and moral used always to define hypocritical and obscure people. The fight against the moral of the time was a very used argument in the 1990s movies to destroy (or at least distort seriously) the History (watch also some other movies of that genre made in those times and you'll know what I mean). Definitely, don't expect a good movie from this version (especially if you have read the novel or seen the 1960s version) it's got no relationship at all. "},{"Title":"A heartwarming experience","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Moll Flanders is a unique movie. It shows you the essential qualities of life. You are brought through a storm or yearning, need, love and loss, feeling each bit of this movie as though you had lived it. The characters are not unique, but their stories are so heart wrenching and real that you feel their loss, their elation, with them. From the very beginning, you understand the loss of a parent. And throughtout the movie, you feel as though each pain brought upon the main character (Robin Wright) is your own pain. While not personally being a big fan of Mrs. Wright's, I found her performance to be exceptional in this story. Her sense of the loss of a parent she had never known, the strive to fit into the world, to adjust and make herself a world that would better her, and then finding the love that she so desperately needed, was conveyed clearly. I felt like I understood every thing she was going through. I could relate to something that would never happen to me. Each actor was outstanding in this film, seeming to have felt their respective parts and taken on their persona's. That is quite rare in today's movies. This movie can move you to great depths of happiness, weariness and sadness. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Below average 18th century drama movie that has bad script/screenplay/directing/cinematography/editing. The cast was good but they were merely going thru the motions due to the bad directing.The lighting was also bad.The story was good though and it would have been a nice novel....oh yeah...it was!Probably better to read the book if one wants to experience this tale of 18th century Euro/American woman life.Or see the BBC version.....Only for big period woman drama fans or big fans of the lead actors.......   "},{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was missed by many, and that is a shame. The TV version is not the same as this one.In this drama, the story is well told and the acting is superb by Robin Wright, Morgan Freeman and Stockard Channing.If you want to rent a very good drama, rent or buy this version of Moll Flanders tonight! "},{"Title":"An excellent production of a tediously told tale.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Moll Flanders (1996) tells the tale of a young woman's struggle with life in 18th century England. This film received mixed reviews from both critics and consumers for obvious reasons. Everything about the film is good except the telling of the story. In spite of all the pluses, Moll Flanders trudges so stoically through her ordinary life as to not whet the edge of the viewers interest but rather make a wonderfully produced film a tedious and boring watch punctuated with poignant moments barely sufficient to keep the waning eyelid open. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman in Period Drama","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read the book, the film did no justice to an already boring book. The film and the book drags simultaneously with each other, and unfortunately, Freeman adds nothing to it. It may even be a miscasting on his part because it is not significant and adds nothing to his career. "}]