[{"Title":"An amazing performance that goes beyond acting","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My wife and I viewed this film without any prior knowledge of its quality (or even of its existence!)  To say the least, we were extremely impressed. We find it difficult to understand how the director managed to create situations where these wonderful children could perform so magnificently. The storyline is certainly simplistic, but the film's greatness comes from the marvelous interactions between the young children which go well beyond acting as we normally understand it.  These interactions are so authentic that the storyline as such becomes a secondary consideration.  One reviewer critized the 'fantasy' ending of the film saying that it somehow broke the flow of the story...But, I for one appreciate the fact that the creators of this film allowed us to regain our composure before the lights went back on !  "},{"Title":"Children are NOT little grown ups.","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ponette (French, 1996) We learn that a child lost her mother in a car accident. Ponette (the child), like all children, tries to blend the various truths given her by adults, other children, teachers, books, rumors, churches...eventually arriving at her own version of Truth...a Truth that allows her to move on, with some peace. No one seems to know what to DO for her, and so, her search is solo. What most ASTOUNDS me about Ponette is 1) It's written NOT by grown ups who see children as small adults, but as true children - with all the confusion, magic, and hope we seem to lose as we age, and, 2) the ACTING of Victoire Thivisol (Ponette) is ABSOLUTELY AMAZING. She received numerous awards for this role, which upset some people - because she was only FOUR YEARS OLD at the time. HOW CAN ANYONE HAVE TALENT AT FOUR? Watch it for yourself. No one is beating her, no one is spraying lemon juice in her eyes, no one is tickling her feet...SHE is doing her own work. It's like she is channeling the next incarnation of Meryl Streep or someone. Since Ponette, she has done two more films, including Chocolat (1999) with Juliette Binoche. She is now only TWELVE. I should live so long as to follow her entire career.  "},{"Title":"A child's pain, up close and personal!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nobody watching this film can failed to be touched, moved, transported and transformed by it.  Others here have already expressed the enormous power of the movie, and particularly of its star, Victoire Thivisol.  If you're reading this to see if you should watch it, I'd say, drop everything and go buy it so you can watch it over and over.  But buy a case of Kleenex (TM) too, you're going to need them!As I watched the movie, I had the impression that director Jacques Doillon had simply found a real-life tragedy and somehow followed the participants through it with his camera.  Nothing in this film gives you the impression of having been written, scripted, staged, produced. It is all so completely natural that you experience first hand the pain, the emotional agony of Ponette, as if she were your own daughter, your own sister, even your own self. "},{"Title":"Victoire, what a breakthrough!","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A 4-year-old French girl, Ponette (Victoire Thivisol) waits for the return of her mother, who has just died at an auto accident.This beautiful and sensitive drama surprised a lot of people when won the Volpi Cup for Best Actress at the Venice Film Festival 1996, given to a 5-year-old novice, Victoire Thivisol. She is really magnificent and, controversy aside, the important award recognized the biggest achievement in the film Victoire reacts with amazing naturalness and outstanding facial expressions to the most intricate scenes. Ponette is a film that certainly will be in your memory, mostly because of a too young girl who shows the difference between a little great actress and a gracious child who wrinkles the eyebrows eloquently. "},{"Title":"The finest child performance in movie history","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  is given by 4 year-old Victoire Thivisol.  Differences in how people deal with death and the role religion plays are brought into focus in this outstanding, thought provoking and unrelenting heartbreaking film.  Death and religion are difficult enough concepts for adults but to thrust them upon a 4 year old child and watch her battle to understand why her mother is dead is captured beautifully and thoughtfully in Ponette.  This is a must see.   "},{"Title":"The most emotionally powerful movie I have ever seen.","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have wanted to see this movie for a very long time. At the time it was released, my own Mother had suddenly died and I knew that it would have been too intense for me to watch. Now, it is almost 11 years later and I have finally watched it and this is quite simply one of the most true to life portrayals of grief and the journey it becomes for really anyone. I was Ponettes age when my father died and I can completely relate to her reactions, her agony and the confusion she portrayed. I can remember asking constantly when Daddy was coming back and not really accepting the answers that people were telling me. I also recall praying and talking to my father when I was alone in my room, begging him to come back and see me when no one else was around. I even had a dream about my father that was amazingly close to Ponettes interaction with her mother. This rang so true for me that I couldn't believe the writer of this story connected things in such a realistic way. Victoire Thivisol is shockingly real in this role. I cannot believe she was only 4 years old when this was filmed! It's a fascinating study of a shields emotional response to such a tragic event and quite honestly, I am at a total loss of words as to how to describe the power of this movie. I can only tell you that if you are looking for something intense and engrossing, this would be your movie. I really appreciated the feeling it left me with at the end too.....that life is not always easy and predictable but that humans are remarkably resilient beings who can actually grow in wonderful ways from the events that challenge us the most. "},{"Title":"Poignant and powerful depiction of a child's attempt to cope with grief.","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Even on home video, PONETTE retains its remarkable power. It remains one of the most haunting and affecting studies of childhood on film. Victoire Thivisol's performance in the title role continues to be moving and totally disarming. It's a rare talent that can carry an emotionally demanding role in a film in which the lead appears in nearly every scene. The fact that it is a four year old child is simply staggering.If there is any ground for complaint about the DVD release, it's the fact that the film appears in Standard Format instead of a full ratio Widescreen edition. In any event, PONETTE is a welcome addition to my DVD collection. In fact, it is a title that I wouldn't want to be without. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, Thoughtful, Innovative.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love everything about this film. The cast portrayed their characters well; the script presented a variety of philosophical viewpoints; and many of the interactions between the children were symbolic of religion in the adult world. Those who would be thrown off by this sort of a thing should not worry, because there are plenty of sweet moments and a very satisfying ending. And I must say that that little girl's performance was utterly stunning. Amazingly enough, she was four years old during filming. I would recommend it to anyone with a brain or a heart.  "},{"Title":"A tragic masterpiece.","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although I found this to be one of the most affecting films that I have seen, I was, nevertheless, astounded at the real depth of feeling shown by the young children in this film.Victoire Thivisol carries absolute sincerity in her portrayal of the recently bereaved young girl, with a realism beyond belief when one considers her tender age. The other children also played their parts with a conviction that would be considered commendable in mature actors with many more years of experience to draw on.As has been noted elsewhere, the graveside apparition of Marie Trintignant as Ponette's mother does seem a fanciful afterthought to give the story a kind of closure, but it is hard to see how the film could have been brought to a conclusion without a similar contrivance.Not a film for the overly sentimental, and I include myself. After watching the film, I bought the DVD, but I,m still waiting the right time to rewatch it. "},{"Title":"Subtle examination of a tender situation","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I do not believe I have ever seen a film that comes anywhere close to Ponette before.  While I would not consider it my favorite film that I could watch over and over and over, it is easily one of the stronger movies I have seen.  Rarely do I view a film that is so precise and cohesive even though it simultaneously plays off so many different themes, like sentimentallity, nostalgia (we all remember the strange social world of the playground though maybe some of us don't want to go back), the pain of loss, and (gasp) humor.  Most directors and actors would get lost at one point or another, not knowing how to segue or shift from one tone to another, but here there is nary a problem with doing so, which is especially amazing considering the leading lady has been walking and talking for about as long as it takes to make a bowl of oatmeal.  The best scenes for me were the trials that the older girl put Ponette through.  The dumpster one was especially great.  Considering that early on in the film I sympathized with Ponette when she cried during some scenes, I felt bad laughing at her suffering through the tests, especially when her hand got caught when the dumpster lid came down.  I believe some of this movie was improv, so for all I know, the poor girl really got her hand hurt, but I remember those type of moments as a child; those tests of stamina, durability, agility, etc.  I put my younger brother through some horrific ones.  One time he broke his arm.  How could I have been so cruel?A performance artist/singer named Suran Song recommended I watch this film.  In Suran's performance, she actually uses slides of the scene where the mean little punk Antoine is playing with Ponette on the playground and begins to verbally abuse her about her mothers death.  The context Suran used the scene in her act seemed to be making a statement about how people treat others in society, even when very young.  Interesting how she sort of sampled an individual scene and made it into a story of her own, because it plays much differently in the film as a whole (obviously) since we know the characters.Probably not for everyone, but certainly for those who want to a see a piece of work very left-of-center yet not oddball in any way; simply a viewpoint that wouldn't normally seem worth making an entire feature film out of because it would be hard to pull off.  Ponette is not only pulled off... it goes flying to the moon. "}{"Title":"excellent child acting","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  >Ponette is amazingly acted. This part overshadows any of its shortcomings. >Victoire Thivisol is spectacular, as are the other children. The dialogue is >eerie, like you're watching a piece of their real lives. The direction is >incredible, and it's beautiful to watch. "},{"Title":"A Perfect 10","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If this movie could be rated any higher then it would have my vote and blessings. Ponette is one of those movies that come along once in a blue moon...the performances are as natural as the breath taking countryside of France.  "},{"Title":"An artistically realised emotional experience","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The quote is from Andrew Sarris on 'Au Hasard Balthazar' but it seems entirely appropriate for this gem. (And its worth remembering that Doillon's first great film, 'La Drôlesse' bore more than a passing similarity to 'Mouchette').'Ponette' comes like a bolt from the blue - a sometimes painful, sometimes funny, almost always moving picture of a four-year-old trying to grapple with the meaning of death. Victoire Thivisol's performance is breath-taking, the curious logic of childhood has rarely been so articulately put on film.If action movies are your thing, avoid it like the plague, otherwise beat down every door until you find it.  "},{"Title":"A deeply spiritual film","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The girl is very good, extraordinary really. The breath and depth of the part she plays would challenge the greatest actresses. She is also very beautiful. She has beautiful eyes and thick, luxurious hair.But this is also a tour de force for Director Jacques Doillon who, one can see, taught the children to act, while they in turn taught him about their world. The magic on the screen is the magic in the world of the children and what they feel. We see them cope with the world they have been thrust into. We watch as they struggle to make sense of it through experience, fantasy and play. We see how they learn to distinguish between what adults think is real and what they themselves discover is real.Her father is a rationalist and is concerned that his daughter's prolonged sadness about her mother's accidental death is crazy. He tells her he will not yell at her if she stops acting crazy. She wisely tells him she will. Already she is learning to placate the world and its madness; already we see that she is working out what is crazy and what is not, and right now she is not sure which is which. Her father does not believe in a personal god, but the women taking care of her do, and so do the other children. She does not know what to believe but she wants to believe in anything that will bring her mother back or allow her to talk to her mother.One may wonder how Doillon was able to get the children to be so good. It's clear he had to immerse himself in their world and win their respect. He had to listen to them and remember what it was like to be a child. These children are creating their world, as all children are, right before our eyes, and usually we do not see because we are so filled with our own lives and with our preconceptions. The children must learn the world and experience it all for themselves, regardless of what we think. Doillon shows us that process through the eyes of the children and especially through the extraordinary eyes of four-year-old Victoire Thivisol, who will steal your heart and soul, I promise.There is something of the spirit of the lives of the saints in this film of and about a child. We see this in Ponette's struggle to believe in a God would take her mother and not answer her. She is a saint as a little girl, and she is her very own doubting Thomas. But she does not give in to despair. She talks to God and when God does not answer, her rationalist streak takes hold and she demands to know why he doesn't answer her. When she is blamed by a mean little boy for causing her mother's death, she doubts herself and wants to die. Pretending is not enough for her.Unlike some others I thought the ending was good. I think the problem was the way the latter part of the scene in the graveyard was filmed with the false color, too hurriedly, and (especially) the unconvincing performance of the woman who played her mother.The final words of the film, She told me to learn to be happy are at once great words of wisdom that we all might heed; but at the same time these words are her first compromise with a profane world, in a sense her first lie, her first sin. It is fitting that they were spoken to her father with the underlying understanding that men will want you to be happy and will be dissatisfied with you if you are not. Her little pleasing half smile from the car seat for him shows us that she has learned she will have to put on a face for the world, and she will. Nonetheless one feels there will be a part of her that will remain hers alone.This is a beautiful, touching, and spiritually moving film, an original work of art.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"An Astonishing Movie","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Never before have I seen child actors carry a movie, let alone one with such poignant and adult subject matter.  And I don't mean as foils for adults, or whimsical urchins.  Nor do I mean pre-pubescent older kids.  The children in Ponette are in the 4 - 6 age group.  The actress playing the title character is just four!  The story is simple  four-year old Ponette loses her mother in an auto accident in which she is also injured.  Her father is remote and distant, and Ponette is thrown in with her cousins and friends to learn how to deal with her own grief.  Not kid stuff, but brought off excellently by the child actors.  And the Director....whew, how'd he do it?  Go rent this movie it is unique and excellent. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Amazing realistic account of a girl who loses her mother but knows that she lives forever. Everyone has their own experiences with God and their own doubts, and she is passed back and forth a little, between believers and non-believers, most of which stand against her at some point. But her faith stays true to herself......and she eventually gets to get on with her life.Really realistic portrayal of how God communicates with different people and how some believers in God don't accept that and yet some non-believers can. From my own real life experiences I can confirm this to be possibly a completely true story, even the ending. And how believing it can leave you at odds with what the world might believe.Tried not to spoil the film for you, so watch it and be happy! "},{"Title":"my mummy's dead... ...but she will come back","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's evident and it deserves to be mentioned. When Jacques Doillon films children (un Sac De Billes, 1975) or teenagers (la Drôlesse, 1979, Le Petit Criminel, 1990), it's what he does best and especially when he pores over the dark sides of childhood and adolescence like rejection, misunderstanding, lack of love or the death of dear close relatives. Ponette revolves around the latest of these things. This cute 4 year old little girl lost her mother (Marie Trintignant,a sinister omen for her tragic fate some years later) and is persuaded she will see her again. So, she embarks on a long waiting which makes her father (Xavier Beauvois) and the grown-ups incensed. Her aunt (Claire Nebout) tries to provide her solace with the help of religious creeds but does she really believe in them? At the start of a new school year, she is sent at boarding school with her cousins and in a small church, asks God to talk to her mother. Then, in a graveyard in front of her mother's grave, a miracle happens.The first thing that springs to mind after the viewing is that you would like to hail Doillon for the remarkable work he has provided with the children. He said that he listened many conversations between children for months before rewriting them in dialogs and that's the main reason why his film has a larger than life vibe. Sometimes, you even wonder if you don't watch a documentary. Working with children on a film set is very hard to do but it's evident here that Doillon did everything possible to prepare his very young actors mentally to his cinematographic demands. So, little Victoire Thivisol and her partners really live their texts and it's the world perceived with children's eyes that is one of the real motors of the film.In another extent, Doillon walks away with the honors of a tricky topic how can the life of a beloved human being can be perceived by her children? The Scottish Peter Mullan will bring his own answer in his moody Orphans (1997) and here, Ponette thinks she will see her mother again because she is seduced by the religious tenets her aunt tells to her. And when her mother appears beside her in the graveyard, it's a real foray into the fantastic without the unpleasant impression of a break in tone because the little girl is the only one to experiment this. During their short moment together her mother tells her I won't be able to stay with you but before I definitely leave, promise me one thing don't complain, savor life as much as you can. We aren't very far from one of the key lines in John Frankenheimer's Birdman of Alcatraz (1962) the first duty of life is to live and it's the message Doillon left in his work. Ponette is bound to have understood the lesson and to follow this piece of advice. Perhaps you will keep it in your heart too after the viewing.So, from a murky starting point, Doillon manages to create a piece of work with a startling realism and an uplifting message. If you're sensitive to these features, Ponette will leave you elated. Highly recommended and I would advise you to watch it several times because very young children are often difficult to decipher in their lines. So, be patient and you will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"An amazing film of depth, sadness, and beauty.","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite films of all time. It deals in a beautiful and complete manner with the way children perceive and process grief. The child in the lead role, Victoria Thivisol is astonishing and the rest of the cast are intuitive, strong, and poignant. The director is adept at letting the children in the film express the nuances of childhood tenderness, confusion, mean-spiritedness, trust, humor, and deep sadness. This is a difficult and beautiful film to watch but please trust me when I say that it is a complete circle...it doesn't strand the viewer in a world of grief. This film is a gorgeous, difficult, complex poem. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is fantastic.What you can get from watching this movie cannot be described, which is a sort of power you can feel, which is something pure that grown-ups have lost.It's been ten years since its release. But it's still powerful when I watch it today. My hear is grabbed by the little girl. She is confused by her mother's death; she doesn't accept the reality; she believes she would see the mom again. She lives in pain which others are not able to understand. No one understands her; no one can help her; her father even thinks she's crazy. But what she feels and expects is precious, which has been lost by adults.Victoire Thivisol's acting is incredible. I never thought a 4-year-old could perform at such a level. She's great. "},{"Title":"Ponette","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is by far one of the best foreign films I have ever seen.If you love foreign films and children, please watch this film.This may be a spoiler. This baby's reaction to death and her reconciliation of it is astounding. I have to wonder how they got her to act the part.That spitting scene on top of the car still haunts me.Kudos to the writers and especially to the little girl who made it so real.A solid 10.bb "}{"Title":"Potential spoilers ahead...","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ponette is a movie you will replay in your mind for a long time. I keep remembering bits and pieces of it. The adults in the movie -- we'll leave aside Ponette's father, for now -- all sincerely try to answer Ponette's questions about death, and the after-life, to the best of their abilities, and it is hard to fault what they tell Ponette. It sounds reasonable, theologically. And yet, it is ultimately unsatisfying because, in the adults, an emotional disconnect has occurred at some point between what they ~say~ they believe and what they, deep down, ~really~ believe. Or perhaps this disconnect was always there for them -- it's impossible to tell.Ponette has the kind of metaphysical purity and innocence that the nineteenth-century French philosopher Jules Lequyer praised in The Hornbeam Leaf. Such questions! Such observations! No adult would think to say, as Ponette did, when her cousin pointed out that his grandfather didn't come back from the dead, No one was waiting for him. No adult would think that it mattered whether anyone was waiting. Ponette's cousin may not share Ponette's convictions, but he takes them seriously. When his mother remarks to him that Ponette is playing at waiting for her mother to return, he corrects his mother No, she's really waiting.Ponette's father, unlike the other adults in the movie, is an atheist. And yet, when Ponette is with him at the end of the movie, describing to him her just-concluded encounter with her mother, he makes no attempt to disillusion her, which is certainly unlike his earlier behavior. Why? Earlier in the movie, in a remarkable scene, we saw the tension between the two of them his atheism, his attempt to impose it on her, and her unwillingness to accept it. How many four-year-olds could stand up to their fathers like that, and on something so important?At the boarding school that Ponette attends, she meets Ada, who is called a child of God by the other kids, apparently because she openly asserts her (Jewish) faith. But surely it is Ponette who is a child of God. It is Ponette, alone among the children, who makes a real attempt to connect with God -- to speak to Him, and even, at times, to berate Him. After what she describes as her second prayer, Ponette is already light-years ahead of the other children spiritually.One review I read of this movie described Ponette as an old soul. I agree, but would go beyond that She has the potential someday to be a great spiritual leader, if her spirituality is not crushed out of her later. To me, this is the great open question at the end of the film What becomes of such a soul? The vagaries of life being what they are, one can imagine that it could go either way for Ponette.Perhaps, in the end, Ponette's father lets it go -- his daughter's fantastic tale of reuniting with her mother -- because something in her eyes, something in her mien, tells him that any further attempt to gainsay his daughter's faith would be futile.----The truth is a cry it is the cry of life, which says that it is life and that it wants to live. -- Michel Henry  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I cannot disagree with Brian enough! You don't need to know French to know that Victoire was giving one of the best heartfelt performances ever given, and just at the mere age of four. Emotion, pain, love, and death is universal. I felt Ponette's pain and remembered just how difficult it was to deal with the loss of a loved one.If a viewer can't handle movies with captions, then maybe he should pick another movie. It's as simple as that. But if that is your qualification and how one judges movies, you're missing out on some very fine movies. "},{"Title":"story about a four-year-old girl struggling with the death of her mother in an auto accident","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is astonishing how well this movie captures the interior lives of young children. Viewers are reminded of how literal reality is to them - the abstract ideas that we adults talk about so freely have a very different meaning to children. It is hard for four-year-old Ponette to distinguish reality from fantasy. When she says that she wants to talk to her mom, she really means that she wants to talk to her, in person. We know this is impossible, but Ponette sees possibilities in the false hope given her by her aunt's explanations about Jesus and heaven and talking to God. None of the adults who are taking care of her begin to address her sorrows, fears and hopes adequately. Her father is too self-absorbed, and probably also too sad. The aunt and the woman at her school can explain things only in religious terms. I found myself longing for some grown-up to sit down with Ponette and listen to her, take her seriously. The children with whom she interacts offer a variety of solutions to her problem, but they also ultimately do not help. Towards the end of the film, Ponette finally escapes from the confines of her friends, her school, her teachers and her parent. She confronts her missing mother as directly as she can - she goes to her grave, freshly dug in the hillside. It is only when Ponette can see for herself that there is no longer any mommy, that she is silent, sealed away in the earth, that she can begin the long painful process of adjusting to her loss.I think that's why she is allowed finally to speak with her - she works out the things she needs to hear from her mother, and makes them happen as she wishes. At last, she achieves a bit of relief from her struggle to understand what happened. For the viewer, by the time Ponette flees to the cemetery, we too have experienced the profound silence of the dead, and have revisited all the bargaining, the longing, and the fantasies that even grown-ups entertain when someone they love dies. I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent -- SPOILER WARNING","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A really heart-breaking, beautiful movie, made all the more stunning by the fact that much of the acting is done by small children. On one level it is about a 4 year old losing her mother, but on a deeper level it is about man's search for God, and the mysteries of faith (why does God allow bad things to happen to good people, what happens when you die, etc.). Much of the film is really an exploration of the transcendent aspects of God's nature (i.e. - the parts that are beyond human understanding), disguised as childish speculation. This film is also about childhood, the way it should be - filled with loving, caring, wise adults that always have time for children. Ponette's aunt is the mother you wish you had had, and the housekeeper at her school a close second. The only jarring note is Ponette's father - perhaps he is just overcome with grief, but you get the feeling that he is just a little too wrapped up in himself, and never really wanted to be a father.There have been many complaints on this site about the movie's ending, but anyone who thinks that it is unrealistic has probably never lost a loved one. When Ponette in her agony of grief tries to dig her mother out of the grave with her bare hands I thought  I know that feeling. Her mother appearing to her and telling her to be happy is a child's-eye version of the stage in the adult grieving process when you realize that it's OK to let go; that getting on with life does not mean forgetting.   "},{"Title":"Amazing, thats all","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all i want to say that english ain't my natural language, so forgive any mistake of my poor english writing. Ponette is an amazing movie, because is simple and clear and also because is about something we are not used to watch children beliefs. Thats what the movie is all about, how kids behave at certain circumstances, in this case the death of Ponette, the main caracter. we go through an hour and a half watching this small kid talking about Jesus and Gods meaning as she try to understand why grown ups say that her mother wont return.When i first watch it, it was playing on television, and i got it rolling. I was about to change the channel when that little girl started to cry. I couldnt believe, but i was almost crying too, even without knowing why the kid was crying. At this point i understood that the girl sympathy was so big that this movie dont go through anyones life without living a mark.After all we were all kids one day.  "},{"Title":"excellent!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Have you seen this movie ? No? You have to see it! and If you think that a movie can't make you cry...it's the one! Go rent this movie! Go! Stop reading and go! "},{"Title":"This film blew my mind!","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hi,I'm new on this site but I just wanted to say that Ponnetteis one of the most breath-taking films I have ever seen. It'sunbelievably real. I'm an actress and I know what it's like towork with children on films and on T.V. and I would LOVE to beable to ask JACQUES DOILLON a million questions about hisexperiences working with VICTOIRE and all the other fascinatingyoung actors that were in the film and mainly on HOW he wentabout directing them,because I assume it was not easy. I don'tknow,maybe I'm wrong,but the little girl playing PONNETTEdelivered an unforgettable performance which deserves thehighest recognition. I have never seen a better actress,youngeror older in my life! I am 22 years old and I look up to her,ifthat makes any sense. I would really love to somehow get intouch with Jacques Doillon. I am going to rent all his moviesnow. I've seen PONNETTE 4 times and finally bought the film.  "},{"Title":"C'est bon! (It's Good!)","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ponette is a 4 year old girl who has survived a car crash that killed her mother. Victoire Thivisol is the actress who plays Ponette. Other than a few scenes with adults, this young girl carries the entire film. She is amazing! Her interaction with the other children is real - you forget that she is acting. In one particular scene, Ponette sheds tears for her mom - the tears are real. Director Jacques Doillon has a magic touch with all of the young actors in this film. His extreme close-ups of their faces vividly reveals their emotions. For 92 minutes you are brought into Ponette's world. You share in her grief, her friendships, her imagination and her innocence. In doing so, you also escape back into your own childhood. By seeing everything through Ponette's eyes, you recall all of the different kids most of us grew up with. You also see how confusing it can be for a child when adults tell them tales just to appease them. Ponette desperately wants her mother back. In some fine examples of how impressionable and vulnerable children can be, Ponette will try or do anything to get her back. To soothe Ponette, her aunt tells her that like Jesus, her mom will come back from the dead. This results in Ponette isolating herself from her cousins and waiting every day on the top of a hill for her mom to appear.In a poignant scene, which shows how mean kids can be at times, a boy tells Ponette that her Mom is dead because she wasn't a nice child, but Ponette fights back and stands up for herself. In another scene, which depicts the  bossy kid, a young girl tells Ponette that she can be a child of God and speak to her mom but first she has to pass a variety of little tests such as jumping from stone to stone without touching the dirt (which the girl depicts as hot lava from Hell).Throughout the film you watch and FEEL Ponette's growing pains. The emotions will be mixed. You'll see Ponette grow as a person but you'll also see Ponette lose some of that precious childhood innocence. In order not to spoil the ending for anyone, I'll just say two words about it Mystical & Sweet.The film is in French with English subtitles, but please don't let this discourage you. After 5 minutes you'll have escaped back to your childhood and you won't even realize you're reading. Rating  ***  "},{"Title":"A 4 year old girl has to cope with the loss of her mother.","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sometimes one actor or actress can carry a whole movie. That's no news. What is news is that a 4 year old girl succeeds in this. That's what Victoire Thivisol is doing. The movie follows her character, Ponette, through the hard times she has after her mother's death. Ponette spends most of the film trying to get her mother back, or at least getting contact with her. The strong point of the movie is that it succeeds in bringing the viewer into the world of thoughts and feelings of Ponette, bridging the large emotional differences between child and adult. I can remember that when her father picked her up from a solitary hiding place, saying 'Your mother is not coming back', thinking to myself 'That may be true, but can't you see how you're hurting the child?'.Jacques Doillon is said to have spent months just going through the movie with the children, and changing the script, based on what they did out of themselves and the reactions they gave. And the result shows it - the movie really enters the children's world. Still, even his great directing wouldn 't have gotten this far without a child that so sublimely could feel in and show so many different emotions as Thivisol. It's not without reason that she was chosen 'best actress' on the Venice film festival.The only disappointment in the movie is the end. On itself this is well directed and played, but the shift from realism to symbolism breaks the film's strength, which lies not only in its portrayal of the child's world, but also in its embedding in the so-called 'real world'. Getting a good end to this movie is indeed hard, but the actual ending still does not feel well.  "},{"Title":"Very moving performances and story","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was totally destroyed by this film.  The director handled the wrenching subject matter with truthful simplicity.  I will never forget this heartbreaking story of sorrow.  Ponette was beautifully made, and it was obvious the director had great respect for the cast.  "}{"Title":"an amazing acting job but just an okay movie","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is absolutely amazing to see the star of Ponette as she acts. This child appears to be about four years-old and gives an incredible performance. The only problem is, that the script itself is a bit flat and my wife and I kept wondering where is the father--why did he abandon this little girl?! This and many other unanswered questions bothered me throughout the film. In addition, although the subject matter is novel (a very young child searching to understand her mother's death), it just stopped being interesting after a while. Then, when the movie did change tone at the very end, it became pretty weird, though not entirely unsatisfying. Overall, the acting is fine but it just didn't arouse my interest. "},{"Title":"A metaphysical and spiritual journey that everyone should experience.","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An extremely captivating movie on how a little girl copes with her mother's death. She withdraws from all the people around her, waiting for her mother to come back. She tries waiting, and when her mother still doesn't appear, tries magic chants, praying to God, and then becoming a child of God, to have some power over Him. All to no avail. But then, when she is in despair, her mother does come back. The film is about four-year-old girl called Ponette played by Victoire Thivisol, who is only just coming to terms with the death of her beloved mother. Victoire Thivisol's performance as a grieving child is the best I have ever seen from someone of her age, she was only four years old at the time of filming which makes it even more outstanding that a young child of her age could pull of the kind of performance that she had. It is truly an amazing performance that goes beyond acting, goes beyond a movie but a work of art. I have never experienced such a movie like Ponette before; it is an incredible metaphysical and spiritual journey that everyone should experience. It is one of the most emotionally powerful movie that I have ever seen. In essence it is basically a powerful depiction of a child's attempt to cope with grief. "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This 1996 French film is reminiscent of an earlier French film from the 60s; Serge Bourguignon's Sundays and Cybele, which also featured an astounding performance by a young girl, the remarkable Patricia Gozzi (Rapture '65)Director/Writer Jacques Doillon has achieved the almost impossible with this production, in fact it would seem as if the story was built around the talents of its remarkable young child star; four year old Victoire Thivisol. Very few four year olds could manage the intense work required to bring this story to life. The Director (and or Producer) has wisely gathered a crew of highly specialized technical professionals, who create the incredible illusion the viewer is following the lives of the characters as they unfold. Cinematographer Caroline Champetier is known for her vivid Documentaries and features (Of Gods and Men '10 ~ Last Days in Jerusalem '11 ~ The Bear '88) Then, to piece the images together seamlessly, they chose Editor/Director Jacquelne (Fano) Lecompte, known for her collaborations with documentary director Francois Bel. Both Bel and Lecompte won awards for their Territory of Others in 1970. When you also add to the above, Camera Operator/Director of Photography Julien Hirsch (Korkoro '09) they made for a very solid collaborative team - all documentary trained filmmakers of renown.Some reviewers have quite reasonably drawn attention to the use of such a young cast for a highly emotional subject...dealing with the death of a beloved parent (in this case the girls own mother) This child has numerous harrowing scenes, including clawing at the earth of her mother's grave begging for her to come back! The method chosen for ending the film is good, but a little jarring...with the appearance of the girls mother! This could be taken as a child's imaginings, but these scenes are filled with very 'real' details - leaving the viewer unsure. Ponette's mother is played by Marie Trintignant, who just a few years later would sadly go to her own grave at only 41. With so many tears of tragedy needed throughout the entire story, it makes one wonder about the methods of prompting required to elicit so much from a four year old?The film makers and distributors must also have been concerned, as the video cover features an entire two page disclaimer - regarding managing the effects on the child star --written by a Psychologist--. Makes you wonder. Composer Philippe Sarde (Tess '79 ~ The Bear '88 ~ The Tenant '76) has written a sensitively expressive music score that's never intrusive. The adult characters in the early stages of the film can seem a little sketchy, with Ponette's father abandoning his grieving daughter by going away for an unexplained reason, leaving her in boarding school or with various relatives. Some of the scenes with her Auntie (and cousin's) do manage to achieve a level of interest and thoughtfulness.A beautiful film for those who like a special kind of story telling or love children. The Tartan VHS release is OK, but appears to be a rare find on DVD. "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a beautiful film. Watching it now as an adult I understand that there may have been some question of abuse. How can a little child know the difference between what's real and what's not to such an extent? It is truly moving to watch her cry in the prayer scene. Whatever your thoughts about whether or not this child should have been directed to perform this role, you cannot deny that it is a profoundly affecting portrait of childhood grief. A lot of people have complained that the ending is not conclusive enough, but I for one thought it was perfect. In life, things aren't usually wrapped up in a neat little package. All the actors in this film - especially the children - do an amazing job. One of my favorite films for many years. "},{"Title":"Learning about grief","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film recounts the grieving process of a four-year-old child who has lost her mother, the pain of the loss, of not finding answers, of not finding explanations of the unimaginable. It also shows how the people around the child experience are void. The children as well as the adults all try to offer an explanation. Seen like that, the film could seem awfully sad. But Ponette is also and especially a magnificent reflection on facing death in childhood, on the stages of grief, on all that is unexplainable. On this point, and rightly so, the end of the film should fuel a debate did this really happen, or was this the product of Ponette's wild imagination? I think that, if we don't ponder this, we pass over one of the major elements of the work. "},{"Title":"The Ending (SPOILER)","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You have to accept the ending on the child's terms. The entire film is spent at the child's level, so when the ending comes you have to believe in children's logic. Ponette doesn't see her mother coming back to life briefly as illogical, so neither should we. When you return to an adult's perspective, it is obviously a dream or a hallucination. It is quite natural for those who have lost a loved one to imagine that loved one returning in a dream state and telling you to move on, so I think it is quite realistic. I wish though that this was made more obvious; the ambiguity is a flaw. Perhaps it is for the children's audience; the ending is trying to work to both adults and children.That little girl truly is amazing. She makes me want to see Chocolat again because she has a big role in that. Definitely a talent for the future!  "},{"Title":"a prodigy- SPOILER!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's amazing how well the director caught Victoire Thivisol's performance and condensed it to a movie with an actual story. Watching it, you'd think you were on drugs because you get so lost in the child's world, along with the children around her. that it's freaky. The few adults in the movie make us remember how we once viewed adults at this age (4/5 ys.old).***********WARNING--!!SPOILER-SPOILER-SPOILER!!!!!----WARNING****Some people may argue that the ending of this movie was anti-climatic or disillusioning considering the fact that, after having entered Ponette's mind and seen things the way she did, seeing her mother in the end turned the story into nothing more than a child who is imagining, rather than coming to terms with her mother's death. To this I must reply three things.#1 How else would you like this movie to have ended? I believe this is the most realistic ending possible. The girl is only 4 years old!! She can cry and be verbally tortured by her peers everyday; but how would THAT ,on top of BS that adults fed her about God everyday, help her get over her mother?? How could even her own father, who seemed to say the wrong things at the wrong time, help her either?? She had to look within herself; she had nowhere else to go. And what happens when a 4 year-old child looks within themselves? They open the gates to a limitless imagination. But is her mother's appearance in the end just imagination?  Which leads me to point #2.#2  The ending of this movie, in a sense, proves that children of Ponette's age still have the power to see things that adults cannot.There are many scientists who have studied children and their behavior, like Piaget. Many of the results they have come up with are surprising.While there are many fallacies that human characteristics- such as homosexuality, vitamin deficiencies, and attention defecit disorder- form during a child's 'nurturing' years-(this could be until the age of 17)- when in fact, there is a mountain of scientific evidence that proves that these traits are actually carried since birth; there is also the exact opposite fallacy.It is commonly thought that there are traits that are inherently born with us, like logic, reason, skepticism, that just need to be realized by the child. Parents, teachers, and older siblings help toddlers with these thoughts There's no such thing as ghosts It's impossible to touch that cloud, no matter how high you jump.This is supposedly a reasoning that they already have inside of them but just need to realize and use it when they think and make decisions as they get older.But the child is not actually REALIZING anything. The child actually LEARNS TO ADAPT to the adult world, a world that revolves around procreation, making money, and human survival, not about getting lost in your own imagination. By the time the child is 10, even if his parents want him to, he will no longer believe in Santa because everything else around him has made him learn that someone like Santa Claus cannot really exist and is a ludicrous character.My point is  At this child's age(birth-5 years old), if people put barriers to their imagination, there is no doubt in my mind that some of the things we are meant or born to see (some things which are INHERENT) have not been seen by us because we haven't  exercised our brains  toward imagination when it was time for us.... just as a child this age cannot understand that money from the bank isn't free, we sometimes hear or see things that we cannot describe, like dreams or feelings, but we discard them because they make us feel uneasy. ---------The fact that children at this age SEEM TO confuse fact with fiction, some of that 'fiction'(imagination) is reality. I'm sure Ponette's mother was actually there in the end.#3 This is the most simple reason why I loved the ending! This is an ending that I would've preferred anyway, because the whole movie was so-o-o-o incredibly sad that it needed a light-hearted feel to it in the end to balance out the extreme sadness. Without this ending, I don't think I would've been able to watch this film again! ;)Just MY thoughts on the ending, peace, Sep "},{"Title":"Don't let her be perverted by Hollywood","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, this is a great little film about childhood... But don't let this poor little girl anywhere near Hollywood! I really disagree with one of the other commentators who thinks she could become the next Shirley Temple! Argh! Can you think of anything worse? Okay this film did move me abit, but isn't all this talk about crying bucket-loads a bit over the top? I too was a little confused by the sudden turn at the end of the   movie, but took it as another example of French film making (in fact I was half expecting something like it to happen). "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie About The Power of Faith","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I could not begin to describe in words how much I loved this movie.  I still remember returning home from the theatre the first time I saw it, and how I attempted to communicate to my roommates how moved I was by this piece of work.  An emotional portrayal of a little girl coping with her mother's sudden death, this film is ultimately about faith. Writer/Director Jacques Doillon charms you throughout the movie with countless scenes of small children conversing with each other as well as adults.  You begin to see that children are just as capable of pondering the unknown and searching the soul for answers to life's toughest questions as adults are, and that their thoughts on these subjects are just as profound as those of even the most intellectually advanced person (if not more so). They just express them in a simpler and more innocent way. If you want to believe in miracles, put the kids to bed, turn off the ringer on your phone and watch Ponette. "},{"Title":"brilliant movie in everything but the ending","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Four year old Ponette loses her mother in a car crash and has to cope with the loss. Her pain is great, and she finds little support from the other adults around her. Her father seems very confused and drives off to some undefined place very soon after the accident. His conversations with her make him seem pushy and scared, he is generally unable to take care of her. Every adult seems to have a different opinion about what happens to people when they die, and so do the children she meets at school.Ponette obviously doesn't understand what has happened and tries to conjure her mother back into life. The other children tell her horrible stories or are completely insensitive at some times, but at other moments some make good friends. I was amazed by this movie I much admired the brilliant acting and the very understandable psychology at work in everything that transpired.But then suddenly, in the last ten minutes of the movie, something happens that just doesn't ring true. I won't give away the details for those who are prepared to be disappointed and want to see the film to the end; but I can tell you it will be a happy end (albeit not for me), for Ponette suddenly undergoes a transformation after which she has found back her joy in life. The movie doesn't provide a clue as to why Ponette would suddenly be able to let go of her pain. It is not as if she has something terribly good to live for, nor has she learned to give her pain a place in her life. None of the religious questions that are touched in the story are answered, it is as if someone has pushed a switch to make her happy. I found the sudden abundance of morality and philosophy in the last few minutes very annoying as well. I was caring for this child! I didn't need to be told fancy phrases, just what really happened to poor Ponette...   "}{"Title":"comme ci - comme ca","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can't believe this came out 13 years ago. I feel like I just read the raves about the central performance like... four years ago. I've been meaning to see it. The movie concerns itself with how a four year old deals with the death of her mother. As anyone can tell you, the main child performance is excellent and remarkable. As hard as it is for an adult to come to terms with death, it must be heartbreaking to watch your child attempt to deal with it. But the movie has some big problems. I was surprised that after the early scenes which have at most one or two other actors in them, that adults go missing for the majority of the film. Unfortunately, this leaves the movie to present a certain type of all children scene over and over. For about ninety-five percent of its running time, toddling children are shown playing and hopelessly trying to make sense of death. It stays in that place for just too long. 40 minutes of the kids trying to comprehend super-natural rules for the dead, feels like an hour and a half. The kids can offer no insight; just verisimilitude, a lonely conceit that requires some support. For most of its length, Ponette is crying or confused. It just doesn't develop. I wish I could have seen Ponette interact with adults around her, in even the most rudimentary plot. Who are these awful parents who leave a toddler to fend for herself in wrestling with death?Wherever the movie goes, there is no shaking its belief that the answer to its dramatic problem is more talking. Having chosen such a small scale to encounter this material, it's not a surprise when the movie has no ending. It culminates in a gratuitous, conventional and sentimental wish-fulfillment scene filmed literally; it is not a fantasy as some insist, because a child's mind cannot manufacture the details we witness of her mothers return. It's just cheap. Both Spirit of the Beehive and The 400 Blows go more interesting places with material concerning childhood. "},{"Title":"This Was The Latest French Movie I Saw","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen quite a few French movies. This was the last one I saw so far. I had to rent it on video because I missed it at the theatres. The movie deals with a four-year-old girl and her father. He mother had recently died and this movie deals with her coming to terms with her mother's death. Four-year-old Victoire Thivisol's performance as the lead character, Ponette, is very convincing (realistic) in her performance. I was very impressed with her. "},{"Title":"Get yourself a box of Kleenex. (spoilers)","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ponette is the story of a young French girl (4 years old) who's mother suddenly dies. It's a tough situation to explain to someone this young what exactly that means, and even more so when it's someone so close to them. The father, unsure of how to explain to Ponette that her mom is in fact, not coming back, and unable to convince her that the visions she keeps having of her mother being around every now and then, he sends her away for a while to live with friends and to cope with her loss as best as the adults and young friends around her can help her do.Victoire Thivisol, as the young Ponette, does a great job. I hadn't thought about it before that, as another view points out, this was not the fake sorrow of an actress with glycerine tears and such, all of the performance was real. And, although the story is interesting in that you see how a young kid might actually react to the death of someone they know and love, and how others might help them to cope with that, I was annoyed that about three quarters of the movie was Ponette crying over one thing or another. I suppose this is quite unsympathetic on my part to think that, damn, this kid is crying again? In all, I say that this film is for an audience that particularly enjoys its emotional dramas. Ponette has a lot to offer there. For others, the story may become either repetitive or just altogether dull to sit through, as at least one viewer has already expressed. "}]