[{"Title":"This is one of my favourite films of all time for a reason.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The reason is it is absolutely brilliant.  In need of artistic renewal, Steven Soderbergh threw everything he could think of into this self-financed feature and the results are scattershot, inscrutable, unfathomable and -- above all else -- hilarious.  Veering from biting social commentary to clever wordplay to a withering parody of Scientology, this film isn't the sort of thing one should rent unless you want to give your brain a workout.Soderbergh has said that this was his attempt to pay homage to the freewheeling style of Richard Lester.  Whether he achieves that or not is open to debate, but he certainly managed to create a one-of-a-kind film experience.  Too bad few people ever got the chance to see it on the big screen.In the immortal words of Elmo Oxygen  I believe -- so strongly -- in mayonnaise.  Words to live by.  I know I do. "},{"Title":"Fabulous.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh's 'Schizopolis' is a masterpiece. It's a satire on the formulas and cycles of ordinary people's every day lives. It very brilliantly satirizes relationships, marriage, sex, stress, work, the media, and communication, and many more elements of life. Soderbergh's wife in the movie (played by his real-life ex) is an example of a middle-age woman trying to find a good solid relationship, as she flees from her husband to his 'alter-ego' and can't decide which one she is more attracted to. The way the two talk is in Soderbergh's own made-up language, indicating the relationship they have. Which is a very common one, where everyday they have the same pointless, shallow discussions about their semi-awareness of plans for the evening, and at one point their relationship in bed. The marriage is fuelled by lies (a nod to his earlier 'sex, lies, and videotape'). At one point in the film, everyone speaks out what their subconscious tells them, in a very disturbing level of honesty, indicating what they're really feeling and really thinking, and how they express it, whether truthfully or dishonestly. Among things, the film is hilarious, frustrating, shocking, spontaneous, and even touching. It's like nothing ever put up on the screen before, it's a fresh antidote to anything formulaic, and for once, something new. "},{"Title":"an extremely personal, maddeningly absurd excursion into the loony side of Soderbergh; one of the definitions of 'acquired taste'","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" From the prologue I instantly thought I understood the tone that Steven Soderbergh- writer, director, cinematographer, possible pornographer, and double-actor on Schizopolis- was going for pure absurdism, not just with how the prologue is worded (as the most important film experience of all time, the full completed version), but how he goes between all the different lenses like a young film student checking out the gears on a Bolex. But it's always a tricky thing going into a Soderbergh experiment, and that it could be a mish-mash like Full Frontal (I've yet to see Bubble). And, in all truth, it is a mish-mash. It tells a coherent story only in that there's maybe two (or three) stories that seem to make any sense, but is scattered around scenes and freewheeling camera moves and editing tricks and music that come closest to that oft-mentioned critic term off-beat. And a lot of the time it seems to be so personal to Soderbergh (real life ex-wife playing ex-wife, plus what may be his real kid playing Brantley's daughter), and so unconscionably irreverent, that it dares to run off the tracks any minute.But it's this fully realized move to just be silly and strange, to make just random moments of wild satire (Rhode Island sold as a shopping mall, Well, at least we didn't sell it to the f***ing Japanese, and a man randomly getting caught up in a straight jacket by fellows from a mental hospital), more well-rounded jabs at the drudgery and pointless meandering of everyday white-collar work life (is there a spy, or a mole, who cares if there's masturbation?), and statements just abstracted as if done sort of by a spontaneous idea in the editing room (title cards quoting a page in the script?), that makes it such a daring work of ludicrous intentions. This isn't a filmmaker trying to make an innovative and possibly important film like Traffic, or even a fun mainstream romp like Ocean's Eleven. In fact, it's seeing the opening prologue, and seeing how the style takes off right away (the title for the film on the shirt of a naked guy running away!) it sets off wonderful irony at every turn.Not that Soderbergh isn't being self-indulgent. In fact, I'm sure that's why there's something of an honesty to his going head-long into his own personal crises of dealing with a relationship or marriage, and throwing caution to the wind by making the emotional problems actually quite real while obfuscating them with some truly goofy vignettes. It's almost like directorial therapy let the actors improvise, let it all be loose, and even have a truly warped storyline involving an exterminator, really an actor looking for motivation and a written scene (ha), yet having in many instances moments of confession. Even if one might not know some of the circumstances surrounding Soderbergh's first marriage (it's detailed in the book Rebels on the Backlot), it feels like it's coming from the heart a good lot of the time, which uplifts the comedy. A running gag late in the film, as certain scenes from earlier with the perfectly dead-pan Soderbergh and Brantley are repeated, has Soderbergh being dubbed over in Japanese, French, and Italian, though in scenes that involve break-ups, awkward sexual tension, and a reconciliation.This is not to say that Soderbergh isn't also more devilish than he's ever since been with his innuendo- make that outright hilariously immature sexual comedy- and it's amazing to see Soderbergh read a 'love letter' he's written to his Attractive Woman #2, describing his profession of emotions in very graphic ways. And if Soderbergh does some strange things to surprise as the only time he's starred, let alone acted, in one of his films (the scene where he's in the bathroom making faces at the mirror is one of those pure moments in absurd cinema that speaks to the success of paying homage to Richard Lester movies), his going for broke stylistically pays off too. Or doesn't, depending on how one can take the mix and match of film stocks used from grainy 16mm to the usual 35mm, jagged hand-held racing after the exterminator man beating up on a man and woman, extreme fast-motion film-speed, perfectly composed images like a boy in right field missing a baseball, and even documentary style in the scenes with T. Azimuth Schwitters. On top of the dialog being continuously crazy and self-conscious (what's that film crew following along?), it's possibly the best, or at least most fun, that Soderbergh has to offer as an independent filmmaker.So see it at your own risk, definitely check out the trailer beforehand to get an idea of what's at hand (if the poster wasn't sign enough what a tailspin one can expect to get into), and if one is already a fan, if only in the guilty pleasure sort of way as I know I am, do check out the Criteron DVD for Soderbergh interviewing Soderbergh commentary, including the story how the deal for David Lean to direct two years after his death fell through (damn Showtime channel)! "},{"Title":"It's like, um....","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Well, it's different, that's for sure.I took this movie out on video because I was in the mood for something different, and on that front it certainly fulfilled my expectations. On the other hand, I was also after something entertaining, and on that front it - unfortunately - didn't, except in fragments.The film starts with Steven Soderbergh blowing a metaphorical rasberry at the audience, standing in front of the movie screen advising (not an exact quote, just a paraphrase) - This is the most important movie you will ever see. If you do not understand it, the fault is yours, not ours, and you should see it again and again until you do understand it, and at full price too.It then follows a small cast of characters (some of whom can't act... or maybe that's the point?) in a series of intersecting stories... though if you can articulate the plotlines you're a better person that I! There's some sort of satire on Scientology, though as I know almost nothing about that particular cult/religion the allusions unfortunately pass me by. I guess, though, that John Travolta is unlikely to make a movie with Soderbergh anytime soon.I did enjoy a few bits, particularly when Soderbergh is playing with the conventions of film making (like deliberately having the boom mike accidentally drop into shot). Favourite among these is when he has his characters talking in a kind of meta dialogue, a cinematic shorthand which comes across like the actors are reading off the film's treatment rather than script. Ie, instead of saying things like Hi Honey, I'm home. How are the kids? they say something along the lines of Banal greeting to wife. Obligatory inquiry after offspring.Unfortunately these moments are too few. This would have made an interesting short subject, but at over an hour and a half it really didn't sustain my interest.Guess I'm a traditionalist at heart.  "},{"Title":"generic greeting!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Stream-of-consciousness conception, sharp writing and creative technique. There's plenty here to amuse any smart audience, but the parts add up to an (intentionally) oblique whole.  The film is so playful and irrespective of convention, it's as if Soderbergh threw up his hands and said 'Screw it, I can't make the movies they want me to.  Take it with his work since and you've got the most supple, witty and consistent filmmaker working in the U.S. today.There's lots to analyze, and myriad connections to be made.  But don't try to make too much sense of it...  let it take you, and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Caution This film makes wide turns. Following too close may result in injury.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I will echo a comment that someone made about -The Big Lebowski- (my #1 favorite comedy followed by this delightful mess). Warning this film transmits on a strictly limited wavelength. If you don't catch this curveball, you're likely to be bored. I won't say that if you don't like it on first viewing, then you're never going to like it. In my case, certain movies get more enjoyable on repeat viewings even after receiving a ho-hum response the first time around. This is one of those movies. With a narrative more fractured than your average David Lynch film, there are connections between one scene and another that jump out and take notice only on repeat viewings, sort of like portals from one part of the movie to another. Music that plays, pictures shown on the wall, one-sided phone conversations, that sort of thing. Aside from the already-limited-wavelength humor, these amplify the laugh factor. This is a movie destined for some kind of limited cult-following someday, but keeping to a murmur level when you're standing next to an air conditioner. The Criterion DVD has some good features and outtakes, like the Maximum Busy Muscle segment extolling the virtues of all products vinyl.Update Nov. '06. Re-watching this almost on a whim, and it all comes together (such as it is) even more. This is truly hilarious, a comedy masterpiece reveling in all its many absurdities, which come one after the other at a highly accelerated rate. I'm upping my vote from 9 to 10.You will learn something from me here today. --Elmo Oxygen (Noooo!!! Oooogghghgh!!) "},{"Title":"No quick summary possible...","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If big star Hollywood movies are your favorites, this might not be for you. You should give it a chance, though. It's very fun.Schizopolis is an incredible treatise on communication and perception in a cinematic form. Supposedly, Soderberg made this movie as a way of cleansing his pallet.(As pallet cleansing or writer's block bypassing projects go, it ranks up with the Coen brothers hitting a writer's block around the third act of Miller's Crossing, putting the project on hold and writing the screenplay for Barton Fink, a movie about an author with writer's block.)Our concepts and perception of reality, especially about communication, seems to be the main playing ground for this movie. Schizopolis is an experimental project, yet flaunts its three act structure. The movie can give you new ways to think about daily life and reality, without resorting to sci-fi religious hogwash, which the movie also lampoons perfectly.The movie has no credits, if that says anything. The movie's title is shown on a T-shirt worn by an otherwise naked man being chased. And that's just the start. "},{"Title":"Its hilarity is absolute!","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Soderbergh apparently worked on this movie with a video camera and several friends. The movie was an effort on Soderbergh's part to return to the most basic elements of film making, without the big budget, big lights, and big names. He succeeded ten times over. I've seen the movie many, many times and it only gets better. Its humor is at times subtle and at others out-right raucous. Each time through you'll be certain to notice something new and amusing that you'd missed before. Fantastic! "},{"Title":"Entertaining and thought provoking comedy.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The first time I saw this film I was entertained and mildly confused by what I had just witnessed, it primarily represents a satiric look at modern life Pre Office Space, but saying just that does not do the picture justice. The combination of surrealism, satire and general creativity make this film worth while and most importantly worthy of multiple viewings. At times it feels as though it is being weird for the sake of weird but remains to peak curiosity. Some very funny situations and lines. Not for everyone, but for those looking for something different and willing to keep an open mind this is an excellent, original film. If you want loud bangs and shiny things, watch Soderberghs other films like Ocean 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 etc. "},{"Title":"A perfect departure from film as usual","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I have to agree with some main themes already given here - it's brilliant, it's unconventional, it's not linear, it's hard to follow, its production values and casting are not the highest quality, and it's incredibly funny.  This is one of the best movies for catch-phrases I've ever seen - it's got witty dialog, great character names, and it doesn't really matter that the plot doesn't go anywhere important - it's just funny as hell.  Anyone who liked Waking Life will like this film, but if you have to have movies develop in meaningful ways, just pass it up and don't feel guilty.  If you do rent it, be prepared for oddly named characters, spoofs on Dianetics, conversations in gibberish, and random odd scenes that all conspire to show how meaningless life can become if you let it.I'd really like to know more about how and why Soderbergh made this - it doesn't have any credits or production info on the VHS version, and it is so radically different from anything else he's done.  It's hard to believe the same person who did Erin Brokovich and Traffic did this, but I'm eternally grateful - I kind of wish he'd do another one sort of along these lines, just to add more irreverence into filmmaking.   "}{"Title":"Great for the first two viewings, loses its punch after that","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time a couple of months ago.  I had to watch it twice because I didn't get the way everything fit together in the plot the first time.  My impression at first was that this was a really funny satire of certain aspects of American (or just modern) society  People turning to self-help gurus for solutions to their problems, political conspiracy theories, the blandness of working in an office, the strangeness of dentists, the meaninglessness of everyday conversation/communication rituals such as How are you?.  In these first two viewings, I laughed frequently at the way Soderberg was poking fun at modern life.  Really funny to me is Soderberg's low-key sarcastic tone.  I definitely have shared similar feelings to him in my everday life.  In addition, I enjoyed the cut-up style connected disjointedness of the film's plot. But then I watched the film a third time with a friend and he laughed maybe one time during the whole movie.  And after the movie ended, he told me he just didn't get some of the things Soderberg was trying to satirze.  This made me reconsider the film, so I watched it a forth time and in doing so, I just found it more cyncial and not as funny.  Tiresome is a word that comes to mind.  Perhaps this film just plays better if one is in a cynical mood.  Regardless, there are still several quotes from Schizopolis that I have incorporated into my daily life so that I can become a better person in a T. Azimuth Switters type of way  Be true to your teeth and they won't be false to you. I am Republican when it comes to most issues, but I'm a Democrat when it comes to gum control.  Generic greeting!  Generic greeting returned!  I really enjoy having sex with your wife.  She's got a great ass. When I married her, she was like a blimp.  But now she just keeps getting thinner and thinner.  It's terrible.  Dear Attractive Woman #2...I would love to have you standing near me, or beside me, or on top of me so I could watch you shake. Overall, I think this film is well worth a watch.  Even on repeated viewings, it delivers some humorous goods.    "},{"Title":"Duals","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I am glad that Soderbergh is making films, even if every other one is a glossy mess. Like many filmmakers, he lives in and loves the medium. Unlike most of them, he experiments in film with things that matter &#x97; and he does it while pretending it is a joke.This will be seen by many as a bizarre hoax, a vanity project, a sandbox. But I think not; I receive it as a small, complex personal project. His marriage was falling apart. He was baffled by matters of duality simultaneous understanding and confusion. So he made a film featuring himself and his already ex-wife. In it, time faces itself; everyone has dual lives among which they shift.You'll only get part of what is going on the first time around, but this rewards multiple viewings.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Original, funny, definitely interesting...","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Not everyone will get this movie. In fact, I imagine most won't.That's not to say that people that don't like it are idiots, it just means that this isn't their kind of movie. It's not particularly linear, there's no obvious through line to cling onto and no real conflict to overcome in the traditional sense. This isn't your average, run of the mill, production line movie. This is different. This is original and the fact that it manages to be entertaining and challenging at the same time is a testament to a very good film maker.I make films myself, and I learnt a lot from this movie in terms of structure and the expectations of moden movies. It doesn;t always have to follow the path. It's a shame that its so hard to find in this country. Anyway, thats by two bits worth... "},{"Title":"An Odd Pit of Cinema","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Fletcher Munson, the lethargic employee of a pseudo-religious self help company, and his doppelganger, the friendly but dull dentist Dr. Jeffrey Korchek (both played by Steven Soderbergh).The film comparable in some ways to the earlier work of Richard Linklater (notably Slacker), mixed in with the visual sensibility of a Devo music video. I am not sure if this is experimental, or art house, or how you categorize something that has no real plot, and sometimes no real logic. There is a certain genius to it, though.I am not overly familiar with Soderbergh, probably having seen less than half of his feature films... but this one will definitely leave you with the impression that he is a genius, an eccentric and an artist. Whether or not this is true, I have no idea... but he wants us to think so. "},{"Title":"one of a kind","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Schizopolis is perhaps best summarized with the copy line - 'All attempts at synopses of this film have resulted in hospitalization.' It's no understatement - just about every convention and niche of film is broken in this flick, and those looking for an easy ride into movie-watching oblivion won't find it here. The film mainly revolves around ad exec Fletcher Munson (played to perfection by Soderbergh) who is unhappy in his work, marriage and life, in general. He frequently masturbates at his office job and is generally distracted by his active imagination. After a co-worker suddenly has a heart attack, Munson is stuck writing a speech for T. Azimuth Schwitters - an L. Ron Hubbard type guru who sells a brand of self-help called 'Eventualism.'One day, Munson spots his doppelganger and follows him to his home. Turns out this fella is a dentist, and, without any clear reason, he is suddenly transported into Dr. Jeffery Kortchack's body and assumes the dentist's life (which includes having an affair with his own wife from his existence as Fletcher Munson). Confused yet? Then there is also the story of Elmo, the exterminator who speaks in a language of random words (I.E., 'Jigsaw. Uh, fragment chief butter. King surgery mind??') and gets laid by all of his beautiful women clients. Language is altered and skewed throughout the film - one scene has the husband and wife exchanging analytically defined sentences ('Generic greeting!' 'Generic greeting returned!') And yes, it gets much stranger, but that is one of the many wonderful things this film has going for it - you will be completely uncertain as to what is next coming. I can do no justice trying to explain the plot; the above encapsulation is an infinitesimally small fraction of the entire story and all of its interwoven subplots, thereof.So, what the hell does it all mean? I can't say that I'm entirely sure, myself, but I always have one helluva good time riding through it. There are endless side-stories and (seemingly) left-over ideas conceived through a myriad of supremely clever and bizarre film devices. It's a jarring experience at first, but with repeated viewing, the unconnected pieces of information come together in a most surprising and rewarding fashion. To me, Schizopolis is the cinematic equivalent of a Rubic's cube - you may fumble with it for a long time, but when you finally get a side complete - Ahhh, the joy and relief of a job well done. Yet, there are five other sides that remain mixed.Soderbergh took several years to make this film completely outside of the Hollywood machine ('I was in danger of becoming a hack,' he said) So he mounted this indie-indie-independent labor of love in the vein of a guerrilla production - a project he was literally shooting in his own back yard and at the houses of friends and neighbors. Still, the film never feels like its cheating the audience because of its budget limitations. Whatever it is that he's trying to do within the film's cryptic scenes, he manages to pull off with the confidence that he knows what he's doing. Steven Soderbergh also plays the leading man - a choice more practical than really desired according to him, but his performance is amazingly funny (the scene where he's making faces at himself in the mirror is a keeper for all time). He also cast his recently separated wife (Betsy Brantley) as his wife in the film, echoing his own a personal dilemma.And though this film embraces obfuscation and absurdity, have I mentioned that it's ridiculously hilarious? This is a cross-brand of comedy that I have never-before-seen. It's kinda like the Marx Brothers directed by Richard Lester on acid. But all insipid cross-comparisons aside, I feel like there's little room for improvement in this grandiose experimental film. There may be some minor performance flaws or uneven pacing, but in a film that embraces lack of coherence, that's hardly stable grounds for critique. This film was readily dissed by critics (if an established director does something completely off the wall and confusing, it must be self-indulgent), and the 12 people that actually saw it, abhorred it (any film that has people walking out after 20 minutes must have something going for it). So do yourself (and Mr. Soderbergh) a favor and seek this one out. Accept the challenge that this film proposes and try putting this puzzle together. Not that there's any doubt about this now given his expansive oeuvre, but Steven Soderbergh is one of the leading revolutionaries working in cinema today. "},{"Title":"fan-tastic! (may contain spoilers?)","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  What a great movie. I put off renting it due to the general plot outline and poster which makes it seem zany and mad-cap. I'm glad I finally did, as it is now one of my favorite movies. Its influence on Lost Highway is very clear - the sudden transformation of one character into another, with no explanation. More significantly, it has many elements of American Beauty in it, and I'm curious if the makers of American Beauty saw it.I love the masterful control of surrealism throughout the movie, particularly in the fantasy/dream sequences, and I was surprised that the film's author was also the director of Erin Brockovich. Also pay attention to the non-sense speaking sequences, where characters greet eachother with phrases like nose army and continue, usually into a seduction sequence, saying things which make just as much sense. Oddly enough, you begin to understand what certain key phrases in these scenes mean - and then when it switches back to regular-speak, you're much more conscious of the words as constructed and arbitrary dialog. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Certainly Different!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  One of the funniest, nuttiest movies I've ever seen. Soderberg looks like everyman, with a nondescript face. Watching him make faces in the bathroom mirror is hysterical. His blase attitude throughout the film is what makes it so amusing. I do feel that the frontal nudity at the end is a bit gratuitist , however. "},{"Title":"A very bizarre look into Soderbergh's mind...","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I wasn't really sure what to think.  It is very strange and bizarre and quirky.  It's definitely not for everyone, but if you're a Steven Soderbergh fan, I would check it out.  Don't let the hard to follow story deter you from finishing this crazy film.  And if you rent it, watch it at least twice before returning it, because you will understand it much more the second time through.  Schizopolis is full of schizophrenia, so that's what you should expect.  I think it's good in it's own way... rather artsy, in a poignant and ambiguous way. "},{"Title":"expression of indulgent bemusement and amusement","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I've finally got to see this film, nearly a decade after it appeared, and I'm very glad I snapped it up on DVD for a fiver - as I'll certainly watch it again.  I'm pleasantly surprised that the comments on this site are mostly so positive, seeing as some films I've loved more have been given a bigger slating.Any film that makes me laugh out loud more than once has got to be worth something Soderbergh making faces in the mirror was a joy, and the newsreader's delivery of the story about Rhode Island also provoked a loud guffaw.One matter this films has cleared up for me is that Steven Soderbergh and Mike Malone are not the same person!  I had thought that the latter was a pseudonym for the director on his occasional acting forays he's in a deleted scene of Erin Brockovich which is available on the DVD, and my God he looks like Soderbergh.  Anyway, I was very impressed by Soderbergh's acting in this film.  It's hard to know how he'd fare in a more conventional role, but he seems to have a wide range of facial expressions, conveyed with an effortless shrug.Some of the office politics stuff was pretty funny to someone who spent 12 years working in two large law firms.  And the hollow bull***t of eventualism was no hollower than that of some organisations one might mention (and I speak as someone who was hubbarded in the street a few years ago).Not everything works in this film, and it doesn't make a whole lot of sense - I was amused that someone had posted a spoiler warning, as I can't imagine how that would work in such a diffuse film.Give it a try. "},{"Title":"A freak-out brutal sattire that will make you think","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The best thing about Schizopolis is that no matter how much I talk about it, no matter how many plot details I give a way, you will have no clue whatsoever as to what I am talking about or what the idea of the film is. As the director says in the first few frames, you have to see the movie several times, and it gets better by the second and third viewings. After watching it you will be confused, you'll have a faint understanding of what the movie is getting at but not exactly. The idea is simple. It is a hint at the insanity of modern man, at his confines within work, within marriage, within a lifestyle. The movie is a challenge to our assertions of normality and a question of our belief system. It is a collected outrage with our use of generic greetings, generic faces, generic attitudes and philosophies. It is supposed to be a comedy but once you start watching you'll only laugh at the tension relief moments. Most of it is just brutal sattire of everyday existance which has nothing to do with what we really want to get at. Watch it because it will make you think about everything and it will make you confused at first to the point where you'll want to reanalize your life. It will reach out to you and that's what great filmmaking is all about. "}{"Title":"So many layers, you can't eat just one.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I could write a 250-page, annotated, hardcover book (not counting appendices) on Schizopolis. This is perhaps the most  all-encompassing, on-target, and brutal dissection of  communication skills in modern Western civilization. I finish yet another mental chapter every time I watch it, and I've watched it at least ten times with no plans to ever quit the habit. It presents the gift of both giddy entertainment and the most dense and intelligent mental stimulation you could hope to get out of a film experience.Essentially presenting the same story three times from three different viewpoints (although far from Rashomon on the surface), with an objective conclusion, every issue takes its turn in Schizopolis-- sex, gender-type, mass media, religion, philosophy, death, criticism, entertainment, boredom/routine, life in the workplace, duality, the ego, smooth jazz, and language. And each manages to fall under the examination and scrutiny of the way we communicate. And, it manages to be hilarious.  Soderbergh is a talented director and cinematographer, but this film proves he can write and even act (both extremely well) in the right situations. (Although with the lack of credits in the film, I wonder how much more he did by himself. I love the music, too...)Definitely Soderbergh's best film. It defies labeling; it lies somewhere between Annie Hall, prime-time news, and Kurosawa. "},{"Title":"absolutely brilliant","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Not at all a conventional movie, which already makes it interesting. The way the plot develops, the cartoonish nature of some scenes (such as the elevator music trash can), Elmo and the letter to Attractive Woman #2 make this an amazing film. As I watched it, I thought of Breakfast of Champions by Kurt Vonnegut. Those puzzled by this analogy need to see the film, read the book, and if necessary, contact your local professors of English literature and film. This movie is definitely on my top 10 of all time list.  "},{"Title":"Reminiscent of the French New Wave","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  OK, I admit that I've only seen one film to come out of the French New Wave era, but that film was all I could think about while watching this.  The film would be Week End.  This movie (Schizopolis) was just off the wall and, for lack of a better word, nutty. At least Schizopolis was entertaining, as opposed to Week End which worked at boring the audience to try to prove a point.  Both movies made the same points about the society they were commenting on and both were the oddest things I've ever seen on film. I can see how both were used in influencing American Beauty and Happiness.So, do you want to know what the movie is about?  I couldn't tell you.  My best attempt to describe it would be to say that is a commentary on the mundanity of daily American life.  See it if you are in the mood for something out of the ordinary and expect to see some really funny jokes. "},{"Title":"Admire it for getting released","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is part of my Scarecrow Video Guide inspired movie-trek, following The Specials. I've always been a hypocrite Soderbergh fan. I claim to be a bit of a movie snob, but really I think of Soderbergh as a guy who makes really great Hollywood flicks. Kind of the anti-Michael Bay. Out Of Sight is probably in my top 50 of all time. But I've always ignored most of his artier flicks, probably because I watched Kafka in college and didn't care much for it.Well, this is as out-there as Soderburgh gets...or nearly anyone. It looks like a student film, but it was actually made right before he started his commercial streak with Out Of Sight. Any description is probably pointless- suffice to say it's a film about communication that goes out of it's way to NOT communicate with it's audience. It would all come off so absurdly pretentious if it wasn't for Soderbergh's hilarious opening and closing statements. (Anything you don't understand is your own fault) In hindsight, it almost seems like a parody of pretentious student films, and you can enjoy it on that level. But there is a point here, even though it doesn't come remotely close to clear.Most importantly, it's pretty dang funny. There's enough silly stuff to appreciate, even if you don't get it. Soderburgh himself is a deadpan riot in a dual role (or is it? You decide!) But Nameless Numberhead Guy steals the show.Schizopolis isn't the weirdest film I've ever seen- that honor would probably go to du-beat-E-o. But it's probably the best ratio of weird-to-watchable. Even if you're completely lost, you'll find something to like if you like film. But If you like Michael Bay, best skip it.Next up is Jerry & Tom "},{"Title":"Soderbergh takes on the ideas of the Sixties experimentalist, with varying results.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Was the prospect of Steven Soderbergh making a film with no big names, no big budget, and no big ideas really such a revolutionary step at the time of its release?  For a start Soderbergh hadn't had a hit since his debut film Sex, Lies & Videotape back in the late eighties, although he had developed a large cult following with his later films Kafka and King of the Hill, he was hardly the Oscar nabbing boy wonder he is considered now.  Most of the appeal of Schizopolis comes from the success that Soderbergh would create with the release of his coolly stylish Out of Sight.  But does this wildly diverting piece of experimentation hold up?My answer would be yes, but that doesn't mean it's a good film, just that as an experiment it allowed Soderbergh to free up his style, and not to take himself as seriously as he had been with his earlier work.  Schizopolis is brimming with hundreds of ideas, some inventive, some stupid, and some curiously disconcerting.  Sometimes it's like Soderbergh has too many ideas, either that or he's being an attention seeker, having characters talk in one language then switch to another has the same effect of me writing my review like this, the all of a sudden TYPING THE REMAINDER OF THE REVIEW USING ALL CAPITALS, FOR NO OTHER REASON THAN TO BAFFLE THE HELL OUT OF ANYONE READING.  But it managed to get Soderbergh a lot of praise, and to another extent it's nice to see a director who is willing to not only experiment but also make fun of himself.If Soderbergh's post Schizopolis out put has boiled down to nothing more than Tarantino homage (Out of Sight), sixties pastiche (The Limey) and Oscar friendly issue pictures (Erin Brockovich and Traffic) it may be that he exhausted himself with this film, but its still an interesting career divide between is more arty, independent films of the early nineties and his more recent mainstream film that also includes his re-make of Ocean's 11 and his supposed re-make of Solaris.  It may not be wholly triumphant, but for fans of interesting cinema it's a must see.  Soderbergh's bored, sarcastic performance in the lead role is enough to cover the ticket price alone.  Or maybe I just need to see it again.  7/10    "},{"Title":" Schizopolis (1996) My generations' Citizen Kane","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw this movie it was on VHS.  I am sure it had a bleak existence as a theatrical release because of its WAY-offbeatedness.  But what a refreshing, amazing, quirky, raw, intelligent, and inspiring film it was. Yes, I liked it.  No.  I loved it.  While watching, I said to myself, this is the Citizen Kane for my generation of up and coming filmmakers!  I understood the feeling of young, aspiring filmmakers and working professionals when they saw Citizen Kane, when it first came out, and said that it changed their lives. Schizopolis has done that for me.  I recommended it to anyone who aspires to make movies because Schizopolis reminds filmmakers that there are no rules.  It's no Steven Spielberg film... not even close.  Every film shouldn't have to be.  Soderbergh arranges Schizopolis so inventively and creatively, you just laugh and laugh and laugh! It's not for everyone, and most won't like it. But it's my all time top recommendation! It's a template for anti template movie making! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!!","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is like Monty Python and American Beauty mixed together. Maybe a little Pulp Fiction too.  It's a movie in 3 parts.  I think the first part is the funniest, but they're all great, even touching.Soderbergh gives a funny and amazing performance!  I really enjoyed how they played around with language and communication skills.  The movie makes more sense with Soderbergh's introduction at the beginning.  There's a lot that's weird, but that's okay.This is a funny and interesting film.   "},{"Title":"a couple of beers short of a sixpack","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Indie director goes nutzoid.  I've got serious trouble to see the humour of this.  Woody Allen's 'Annie Hall' already presented some of the supposed jokes and humour in this terribly inferior product of a bored and phrenetic state of mind (at the time).  Frankly I rented this because of Soderbergh's recent successes in movieland before Oceans Eleven with which he gets even more commercial than with Out Of Sight.  The latter actually had some style.  But this turns out to be his worst (typically that means 'weenie' in Dutch) movie.  The point of it may be that Soderbergh is tired of urban cacophony, or that he wants to pay an awkward homage to certain movies that inspired him.More probable is that Soderbergh tries to accomplish something bizarre like a Monty Python-effect but crashes and burns along the way before making a point or even becoming experimental.  My sympathy goes out to all the fans, but this was a run of the mill.  Much ado about nothing.  Buñuel made great movies about merely what he liked to show, without a point.  Now Schizopolis is definitely NOT ahead of its time.  However also but nevertheless heh uche moreover big dogs barking on my head whatsoever hereby backed up paddywagon mackin' on thy cat's ass or shave my legs and call me grandpa.  Now, was that funny?  Was it surreal?  ... Thought so.  Ah well, one born every minute.  3/10 "},{"Title":"People earn their liberal arts degrees in order to be able to watch and understand this film","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Schizopolis is piled with layers of amusement for the id, ego, and superego. People earn their liberal arts degrees in order to be able to watch and understand this film. Some of it is outright funny (like a man with no pants running around) or weird funny (e.g. an exterminator milkman that talks like the $10,000 Pyramid on Mars), but much of it you have got to get it to get it (not all of it, but some amount); this is, after all, satire and social commentary. So if postmodernism and the contemporary art section of your local museum is not your bag, then you are still probably in the target audience for Schizopolis, but it will likely be a miss. On the other hand, if you are a fan of the 90s era, Office Space and Short Cuts, then Schizopolis may just be your kind of movie. "},{"Title":"The Most Important Picture You Will Ever Attend","Date":"19 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Generic hyperbole regarding the quality of auteur and/or film! Dispassionately confused description of genre widening to huge, meaningless statements concerning relatability. Self-scourge about inability to find words. Needless description of linear plot line, foregrounding a romantic triangle. Shallow background on auteur leading to generic connections between person-and-story. Authoritative report on emotions the film will likely elicit. Overly-dramatic closing statements with reference to film's impact on film-in-general. Hasty landmine, ambassador jumpsuit landmine. Nose army, nomenclature, Belgian disregard? "}{"Title":"Not for everyone, and that includes me","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Schizopolis begins with this very funny speech by Soderbergh, and early on it looks a little like some sketch comedy show from the 70s like Kentucky Fried Movie. And definitely sketch comedy is an element of this. But it's sketch comedy that tries hard to not be too funny. Ideas like a couple exchanging generic greetings are clever but no more than mildly amusing, and I think that's what the movie is going for; it doesn't want comedy to override experimental weirdness.The movie is also careful to avoid feeling too much like it has a linear story. Yes, we do follow characters through a story arc, but this is done in a purposefully disjointed manner. The pieces for something genuinely entertaining are there, but the director clearly wants something that is more challenging than enjoyable. And to certain people, that will make it more enjoyable.But I'm not one of those people. For me, it was a clever but rather tedious experiment. "},{"Title":"An interesting and fun experiment","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Explaining Schizopolis seems counterintuitive. The movie is a mixture of autobiographical self- examination and self-deprecation. At the same time the film seems to be tackling some larger cultural themes and postmodern concepts of language and communication. In the end, I think the movie is a fun assortment of ideas being exercised together in a rather harmless fashion. Schizopolis never seems to take itself seriously, the movie is made on a small-budget, with a purposefully contained cast, self-aware and referential humor, taking stabs at life, narratives, movies, culture, and humanity while never entirely aiming at any single target (except perhaps the filmmaker himself). I recommend this movie not because it is a fully realized concept (because it isn't) or because it is a hidden gem that must be discovered (because it isn't) but it is refreshing to see an experimental film created playfully, aware of its self-indulgence and entirely at ease with it. "},{"Title":"Being Steven Soderbergh","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Movies like Lost Highway, American Beauty and other high-profile, big-budget productions have been praised for their original takes, but in fact it was Schizopolis that explored those possibilities first. I find it refreshing and inexplicably underrated. The film is a very funny and bizarre look into the creative mind of its author, Steven Soderbergh. Press conferences on horse urination, marital dissolution, dysfunctional families, work, love, death, identity, the hilarious (and tragic) absurdity of life&#x96; everything is scrutinized here under a mask of randomness which makes everything unpredictable and crazy funny. Schizopolis gleefully delves into the absurd and blends it with satire in a most original social commentary, mocking all conventions and confinements. This type of humor is my kind. For fans of Kafka, Eugene Ionesco and Urmuz, Samuel Beckett, Kurt Vonnegut or David Lynch, this will be a blast. On a third viewing, all this mess makes perfect sense, and it's beautiful. Sneeze! "},{"Title":"The end, or a new beginning; Soderbergh's forgotten think-piece","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" An experiment; an attempt by Soderbergh to strip away the extraneous baggage of narrative cinema - and, in the process, the often debilitating obsessions with style and presentation - in order to get to the pure essence of film-making, as an outlet for spontaneous, creative expression. Soderbergh would subsequently refer to the finished product as a necessary purging; a way of going beyond the obsessive technical approach and over-reliance on the look and technique that had been so important to the atmosphere of his earliest work, so as to make possible the more liberated and immediate film-making approach of subsequent films such as Out of Sight (1998) and The Limey (1999). As a result, Schizopolis (1996) can now be seen as both the end and the beginning of something really quite wonderful; offering, as it does, the full stop following perhaps the most interesting and successful stage of the director's career - in which he developed on the cool and seductive Sex Lies and Videotape (1988), the dark and expressionistic Kafka (1991) and the underrated American masterpiece King of the Hill (1993) - and the start of a whole new chapter - in which the director found his greatest success with the highly acclaimed Erin Brockovich (2000), the Oscar winning Traffic (2000) and the hugely successful remake of Ocean's Eleven (2001).In keeping with this idea of purging, we can see with Schizopolis an attempt by Soderbergh to indulge all of his various creative quirks and eccentricities before simplifying his style and vision in a way that would be beneficial to a mainstream American audience. Although he would create similar indulgences since - including films like Full Frontal (2002), Bubble (2005) and The Good German (2006) - those particular films often feel like extra-curricular exercises that don't, in any real way, relate to his more successful endeavours, such as the Ocean's Twelve (2004) and Thirteen (2007) sequels and his adaptation of the Stanislaw Lem novel, Solaris (2002). Whereas those films hid their post-modern reinvention beneath knock-about farce or widescreen spectacle, Schizopolis is home-made, experimental cinema at its most explicit and unhinged. From the narrative set-up, to the casting, to the use of editing, music and mise-en-scene, the film is literally bursting with ideas and ingenious abstractions, with Soderbergh taking influence from a number of far greater filmmakers - such as his personal heroes, Terry Gilliam and Richard Lester, to legendary masters like Jacques Rivette and Jean Luc Godard - and yet, still manages to produce a piece of work that seems true to his own unique style and individual creative preoccupations.Naturally, given the nature of the film and the outlandishness of its characters and approach, Schizopolis often seesaws wildly from the inventive, to the stupid, to the genuinely inspired. It was and still remains a bold and daring work for the director; disregarding the lush cinematography and evocative period detail of Kafka and King of the Hill and instead developing the rough and ready, hand-held, matter-of-fact approach that he would continue to use on subsequent films like Traffic and The Limey. However, the presentation works, and the style of the film does well to convey certain themes and ideas that are expressed through the tone and opinions of a central character that is perfectly performed by the director himself. It also creates that feeling of something anarchic and aesthetically quite progressive; disregarding any such notions of box-office potential, industry trailblazing or self-congratulatory deconstruction to simply make a film that presents the pure, unfettered spirit, energy and imagination that only the very best of cinema can convey. It obviously won't be to all tastes - which goes without saying - but even so, I feel that Schizopolis is a truly unsung work within the director's career; stressing personal expression, ironic self-deprecation and genuine cinematic invention.As it stands over a decade on from its initial release, Schizopolis can now be seen as a relic to the days when Soderbergh could (for me at least) be cited as perhaps the greatest living filmmaker of his generation; with the film capturing the sense of diversity, energy and complete control over all aspects of the production that can be noted throughout his work released during the 1990's. His more recent films might be more financially successful (and certainly not without merit), but for me, they simply fail to offer that same sense of inimitable defiance, unpredictability and that eccentric disregard for convention that his work was once synonymous with. It may not be wholly triumphant overall - and is certainly not on a par with the likes of Kafka, King of the Hill and the greater than you might remember it Out of Sight - it is, nonetheless, a work of pure vision; both mesmerising and maddening in almost equal measure, and punctuated by Soderbergh's static, deadpan performance and the capricious idea that anything could happen at any given time. "},{"Title":"Generic Greeting!","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" An absurdist film, with a sense of humor, that's actually as laugh out loud funny as it is conceptually amusing. A lampooning of Scientology, relationships, the difficulties of communication, the film making business, the nightly news, corporate life and just about everything it touches. Steven Soderberg has made one of the zanniest comedies, in recent memory(I cant think of the last time I used the word zany in conversation). This is the film which restored Soderberg's creative powers after a series of slumps and a collapsing marriage, after which he would go on to Oceans 11 and infamy. These two quotes might better let you know what your in for. Dear attractive woman number 2, only once in my life have I responded to a person the way I've responded to you, but I've forgotten when it was or even if it was in fact me that responded. I may not know much, but I know that the wind sings your name endlessly, although with a slight lisp that makes it difficult to understand if I'm standing near an air conditioner. I know that your hair sits atop your head as though it could sit nowhere else. I know that your figure would make a sculptor cast aside his tools, injuring his assistant who was looking out the window instead of paying attention. I know that your lips are as full as that sexy french model's that I desperately want to f*&k. I know that if for an instant I could have you lie next to me, or on top of me, or sit on me, or stand over me and shake, then I would be the happiest man in my pants. I know all of this, and yet you do not know me. Change your life; accept my love. Or, at least let me pay you to accept it. Fletcher Munson (sunnily, on homecoming) Generic greeting! Mrs. Munson (warmly) Generic greeting returned! (they kiss and chuckle at each other) Fletcher Munson Imminent sustenance. Mrs. Munson Overly dramatic statement regarding upcoming meal. Fletcher Munson Oooh! False reaction indicating hunger and excitement! Fletcher Munson (wife snuggles up amorously) Ooh! *Really* well-rehearsed speech about workload and stress. (pause) Fletcher Munson Genuine sorrow. Um... truthful-sounding promises of future satisfaction? Enticement to agree? Mrs. Munson (pause) Accepted. Fletcher Munson Gratitude. A New Mexico woman was named Final Arbiter of Taste & Justice today, ending God's lengthy search for someone to straighten this country out. Eileen Harriet Palglace will have final say on every known subject, including who should be put to death, what clothes everyone should wear, what movies suck, and whether bald men who grow ponytails should still get laid. "},{"Title":"Weird, wacky fun!","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  SCHIZPOLIS is one of the strangest films you will ever see. It has no real story, yet somehow emerges as a very funny satire on our modern world. The best part of the movie maybe the very first scene where director/writer/star Steven Soderbergh addresses the audience directly with lines like There will be parts in this movie you will not understand. This is your fault, not ours. To describe the film would be impossible- but be warned this film is different- really different- it makes BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS look normal. If you latch onto what he's doing early, you'll probably roll with the punches and enjoy it. If however you think the first 5-10 is stupid, you might as well stop the video right then- because it doesn't get any different. "},{"Title":"It's 1984 All Over Again. . .","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  In what has been called the first truly postmodern film, the director, Steven Soderbergh (creator of the blah sex, lies, and videotape and the sharp Out of Sight,) begins the film by stating that The moral fiber that holds our society together will be ripped apart if every man, woman, and child, does not see this film.I wouldn't go that far.However, SCHIZOPOLIS proves to be a really, really funny jaunt through the territory that Tim Burton, David Lynch, and John Waters constantly fail to conquer ordinary America.  Where Burton adds a fairy-tale-gone-wrong sense, Lynch throws in his dark underbellies, and Waters his completely ridiculous extremists, Soderbergh places normal people in hyper-normal situations. The thing that makes this film so much better than those aforementioned is that every part of it is real, every part is believable.  Fletcher is the everyman, who stands alone in the bathroom making all sorts of faces in the mirror, and suddenly stops when a colleague enters.Soon Fletcher is caught in the middle of a seemingly insignificant conspiracy that really IS insignificant, and we are treated to so many intertwining relationships that soon we forget who these people are, and they merge into one face.Overall, SCHIZOPOLIS is a very humorous and original take on the 9 to 5, and goes to show what A&E has been telling us all along Every life has a story.   "},{"Title":"not really worth much","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I had passed over this title at the rental place several times and the week I decided to get through the entire Bergman Scenes from a Marriage TV version, I figured I'd need something lighter to turn off my brain for a while (I don't actually watch television). The box looked like perhaps it might be good, sadly, it was not, and after 45 minutes or so, I found my mind wandering.Just because a film juxtaposes bizarre images and ironic situations with ironic reactions does not mean that the film is saying anything concrete or penetrating any depths of human understanding.For example, one listens to the music which is a sort of modern counterpoint as it begins, which, as a musician, caught my attention. Sadly, the counterpoint that could have been interesting relied on that over used cliché, a female making noises of enthusiasm which can be found in lots of commercial piped music you find on your commercial radio stations today. It is not edgy. Nor is this movie.They try to do a similar thing with the film itself, make a counterpoint of irony and situations, however, it fails. One reason is that they are trying to make the film seem like a vignette film visually and with the pacing, yet it is not. They do not compensate this lack of cohesion, which is fine, with anything substantial to make the format work.I'm going to go read a book instead. "},{"Title":"The genius is beyond me","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The argument that Schizopolis doesn't entertain is not worth even being made.  I couldn't stop laughing from beginning to end thanks to director/writer/star Soderbergh's hilarious acting, the creative dialogue and the music, and especially Elmo Oxygen, but I really don't think that matters when you consider how brilliant it really is.  If Schizopolis were filed in the drama or mystery section it wouldn't change how important the message of the film is.  I'm not saying that you're going to want to quit your job and leave your wife after watching this, (if you want that watch American Beauty) but it still does a good job at pointing out how completely meaningless parts of our lives are when taken too seriously.  So please people, try to watch the film all the way through and think about it, and while you're watching it try to laugh.  IT IS FUNNYOn a side note, I think it's worth mentioning that this film appeared in 1996, which means it preceded American Beauty, Fight Club, and Lost Highway; all films that were praised for their originality and unique style, when actually elements of all of them appeared in Schizopolis before they were even made.  I wouldn't say that Schizopolis is a better film that any of them, (not the first two anyway) but it's certainly overlooked when it comes to SHEAR BRILLIANCE.  I give it 15 stars.  There I've said my piece. "},{"Title":"SOME would have worked great....some.","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a very, very, very strange film--so strange that it clearly is an acquired taste and a film that won't appeal to most viewers. My feeling is that I liked a lot of the strange things that Steven Soderbergh did in this film but after a while it just became too much of a chore to watch. To me, it's a film with some wonderful ideas...too many.When the film begins, Soderbergh addresses the audience in a VERY funny intro. He insists that EVERY SINGLE person on the planet MUST see the movie and if they don't understand it, they must go back to the theaters and pay full price to see it again and again until they do! I was excited by this clever start.As for the rest of the film, it's a mixed bag of weirdness--all cloaked in a strange and enigmatic plot involving 'Eventualism'. This is a weird Scientology-like cult that describes itself as neither a religion nor philosophy but a 'state of mind'! But the film isn't just a take off on Scientology (I would have loved that) but is just filled with weirdness just for the sake of weirdness. Bland conversations between the main character and his wife consist of phrases like 'generic greeting' when the husband enters the house and 'imminent sustenance' when he smells dinner. Some other times, folks burst through the fourth wall and say things to either the filmmakers or audience. None of it is consistent...just weird and disjoint.Overall, a film with some funny and inventive moments which don't add up to an enjoyable whole. Too bad. I really think had Soderbergh used SOME of these weird gimmicks the film would have worked better than using them all. Or, if he'd simply parodied Scientology (such as in Bowfinger) it would have worked. Instead, it's an odd and frustrating film.By the way, if you do decide to watch, expect to be offended here and there with characters (non-graphically) masturbating, using colorful language and the like. "}{"Title":"Is this such a strange movie?  No, it isn't nearly strange enough","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Wow, dudes are falling over themselves to praise this movie on IMDb (as of this writing)! Maybe for, like, a film buff it's a big deal that somebody made such an aggressively chaotic movie? Whatever. If you're a comedy fan before you're a film fan, then you'll recognize that randomness is not absurdity, and that Schizopolis presents too much of the former. There are whole scenes wherein characters talk in gibberish, speaking real but ostensibly silly words--(nose army, landmine)--that have no apparent connection to what's happening. And... that's all that's going on. It's like being expected to laugh solely because Weird Al Yankovic said Albequerque. Some of the movie's lines and ideas are much sharper than this, but too much of its humor is at the pre-teen/grandpa level.It appears that absurdity is the central point of this movie--in other regards, Schizopolis isn't beautiful enough or comprehensible enough to matter very much. But unfortunately, on the whole, this movie is not much more than mildly odd. "},{"Title":"Pure genius","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Schizopolis is more than a movie, it's a turning point in the history of cinema. It's creativity at its best. It's a wonderful piece of art that make you think over and over again. You laugh, you don't understand, then you like a song put in a certain moment, then you think you understand everything, then you see Elmo Oxygen and then... then you think I've never saw anything like this before. And you are happy. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Soderbergh Film.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Perfection.  Steven Soderbergh is a genius, a thief, and a pervert. Without question, the best film Steven Soderbergh has made dealing with the boundaries of film making.  I only hope that he keeps his love for truth in story telling as achingly honest and hilarious as he has done here. "},{"Title":"Don't understand Schizopolis? Thats your fault.","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I have to start off by saying that I truly liked Schizopolis. It's unlike anything I've ever seen, in the traditional sense that is. In any case, I'm not a real fan of studio movies so Schizopolis was right up my alley. People might wonder what strived me into seeing this film. Well, it was by luck actually. I was looking at some movie matches for psychologically yet offbeat inclined films such as Dark City. I came up with one choice, Kafka. I saw that and it was a nice movie, I own a copy of it actually. Then when I looked up movie matches for Kafka I think I got Schizopolis. It was either that or I simply looked up what other movies this director named Steven Soderbergh had directed. Schizopolis seemed like an interesting movie, catchy name and incredibly high offbeat ratings, I couldn't go wrong. Well, I was right! By the time I finished seeing this film I was left entirely confused but amazed at the good piece of filmmaking by this guy named Soderbergh. Eventually I had to see some of his other films, and of course, they were as good as I had hoped. By this time I became a follower of Soderbergh and had to see The Limey opening day, again I was pleased.Schizopolis is a self reflective movie Soderbergh style. Fellini 8 ½, Woody has Stardust Memories, Soderbergh has Schizopolis. According to what I have read behind the making of this film is that Soderbergh thought of quitting filmmaking once and for all after the critically panned The Underneath. His thoughts were put to the making of this film. The result is a film that is so absurd it left critics speechless because they obviously didn't know what to think of it. They couldn't really ridicule it because that would just mean they didn't understand it. Hence the introduction of the film `in the event that you find certain sequences or ideas confusing keeping mind this is your fault not ours'. Soderbergh is indeed a genius of avoiding negative feedback from critics and instead he mocks them indirectly. As for the film's moments, the introduction and closing of the film are highly amusing. The funniest sequence is probably when Soderbergh is making funny faces in front of the mirror. As for another funny portion of the film is when the Soderbergh characters speak with terrible Japanese and Italian dubbing.This is definitely a film that is worth viewing. Its good to see a new type of cinematic film style from a filmmaker that is truly passionate about film. If you are looking for something new and inspiring cinematic wise, look no further. Come Early! Come Often! "},{"Title":"A real stinko! I've liked other S. films, but...","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I can see lots of enthusiasm for this film in the comments of other imDb members. I most agree with the person who said if you don't like the first 5-10 minutes, hit the exit. I managed about 20-25 minutes, really hated to give it up since I am a fan of the director, but kept feeling worse and worse about what I was watching. I might have made it through more like 35 minutes, but it felt like torture most of the way. And so I missed the gratuitous frontal nudity near the end, as another viewer's comments mentioned. Unbelievable. Is it actually there -- or was that just a disguised marketing ploy? But seriously -- is frontal nudity ever truly only gratuitous? Is there no God? What does it all mean? "},{"Title":"Soderbergh delivers!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The most original film I've seen in a while.  Finally, a movie with a commentary that isn't aimed at some politically correct message.  If you don't get it the first time, watch it a second time.  If after a second viewing you don't get it, don't worry. For your type there are cookie-cutter plot movies without a single lick of originality made every day. Soderbergh delivers. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is such a bad case of a want to be 60's cult classic, yes it is very poorly made as a typical 60's low budget independently made movie. That's the problem!!! Steven Soderbergh had the bucks to make something dececent but not the imagination. I spent $27 for this movie because it was Criterion Collection and turned it off after 18 minutes. The movie I was watching prior to this was called Happenstance it showed far more imagination than any American movie made in the last 10 years! While I am venting on this crap movie, how the hell does the last Batman movie get to be number one, where are the standards that movie isn't even on DVD yet. How can it be the number one movie of all times when most of the people that voted on it could not have seen it more than once!!! "},{"Title":"What was he thinking? What was I thinking?!...","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  IMDb mark 4I sincerely wonder why Steven Soderbergh made this film. Could anyone really identify oneself with the deranged main character(s) from this film? Moreover, to snub people who aren't likely to enjoy this film, a guy says in the beginning something like if you do not understand this film, it is your fault, not ours; you will have to see the film again. However, it's not the understanding I had problems with, although it is tough to figure everything out; the problem is I was yawning after 45 minutes, even though I had waken up just 5 hours before.-Humour Well, you can spot a few comedy moments, but they are only funny in a weird, sad, twisted sort of way. Additional generic remark about the humour in said film. (!-you'll understand this sentence after you see the film-!) 6/25-Physical Comedy It's not much better here, either. Many absurd situations arise and the consequences are absurd, too. And is that crazy guy who runs from the men in white supposed to be funny? 7/20-Plot The plot is very twisted, too. Dr. Jeffrey Korchek, Fletcher Munson and his wife are all involved in an amorous triangle, and the other characters in the film influence their decisions and relationships. The film is divided into three parts, one for each of the three main characters. 11/15-Ending The ending is not bad for this movie. I liked it. Of course, taste varies. 7/10-Theme I couldn't come up with a theme for this movie, other than the well-known expression It's a mad, mad world.... There are, probably, many possible interpretations for this artsy film. 2/10-Nudity There is no nudity in this film. 0/8-Cast Steven Soderbergh is the only well-known person who acts in 'Schizopolis'. 1/8-Genre This tries to be a comedy. 3/4-->Overall 37/100This is sort of interesting to watch once, I guess, perhaps just because it is so odd. But I seriously doubt whether one would like to watch it again. From Swordlord, 1 sword down! "},{"Title":"...if you need help...","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" ...figuring-out how meaningless mainstream living is, then watch this movie.  i didn't find it funny at all; i found it rather depressing. ???SPOILER or FAVOR??? ...masturbating in the stall while at work...yeah, that's HILARIOUS!!!  i've never seen such genius!!! (sarcasm here) ...then again, it may have been the previous night's psychedelic episodes that just made the raw emptiness of the film hit a little bit too close to home.Even if it's only my opinion that I don't like the film, I hardly think it deserves to be labeled as genius in any way. "},{"Title":"This is a movie about nothing.  People don't use words to mean what they are.  People come and go.  It was dreadfully boring.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I like experimental film, but this was awful.  It moved very, very slowly and the dialog was original (the characters often did not use words to express themselves as much as tone of voice) but seemed overall pointless. I think that the movie was trying to hard to be different and, in the end, suffered for it.  Save you're $3 dollars and rent something else.  If you feel like being a humanitarian, rent the movie, and then destroy it so no other unsuspecting victim accidentally wastes a night watching this garbage. "}]