[{"Title":"Delicate soufflé of comedy and melancholy","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"26 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The tone of this film is really difficult to convey on paper.  It manages to successfully capture the elusive appeal that David Schwimmer has from time to time; it's easy for his sad-sack personality to grow annoying and pathetic, but this script managed to walk that line.  The scenes of embarrassment and shame never seem overdone or cheap, and serve the story well.  I especially like the down-to-earth, realistic beauty that Gwyneth Paltrow always brings to a role; she never seems like a movie star playing a real person.  Because of Schwimmer's brief tenure as a star with buzz, this was seen as a box office failure, but it was never the kind of movie likely to rake in huge bucks.  For what it is, a small, thoughtful, offbeat romantic comedy, The Pallbearer is a winner. "},{"Title":"Often overlooked, but delightful film","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Maybe it was the great, eclectic soundtrack with the likes of Django Reinhardt, Herbie Hancock, Perry Como, Curtis Mayfield, Neil Young and Richie Havens, or maybe it was the dark and subtle bits of humor that pleasantly surprised me throughout the movie, but I really enjoyed this one.We meet Tom, a forlorn twenty-something man-child still living at home and struggling to take control of his life, played by David Schwimmer of Friends fame. Tom gets a call from a woman who mistakenly believes he knew her recently deceased son. He goes along with it, presumably to save her the added grief of knowing her son had no close friends. Of course, Tom's accommodating nature backfires and he's asked to give the eulogy for a man he never knew. This sets up a scene with the kind of dark humor seen throughout the movie that audiences are either delighted with or immediately turned off by.At the funeral, Tom meets Julie, his unrequited high school crush, played with genuine emotion and winsome grace by Gwyneth Paltrow. Thus begins two relationships that play out over the duration of the film --one with Grace, the bereft mother of the friend Tom never had, played by Barbara Hershey, and the other with Julie.Yes, this movie owes much, in terms of plot and characters, to The Graduate, with Hershey playing the counterpart to Anne Bancroft's Mrs. Robinson. But it turns out to be much more than just an update of the '60s classic. The audience really gets to know the inner turmoil both Tom and Julie are going through -- Tom, both for the guilt of becoming unwittingly involved with Grace, and for also being involved with Julie at the same time, and Julie, for being torn between striking out on her own to escape her overbearing parents and getting into a deep relationship with Tom.There are a couple of sideplots going on with Tom's friends -- Michael Rapaport's character getting married to a woman his friends don't like, and Michael Vardan's married character, making a move on Julie, which obviously infuriates Tom. And Carol Kane as Tom's mom, is precious. In one scene, he is livid after she bursts into his room unannounced. After she receives a brief scolding for not knocking, she replies I only wanted to see if you wanted some ice cream, to which he replies A little. Schwimmer nails the role, with his underplayed, tacit sadness about his so-far-failed attempt at making a responsible life for himself. And Paltrow, well, can she ever miss? Whether for the dark humor, spot-on acting, or superb soundtrack, this one is definitely worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Simple, but nice","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Pallbearer will be compared with The Graduate. A graduate (Tom, played by David Schwimmer), only one year later, has an affair with an older woman. She is the mother of a dead guy named Bill. Tom did not know Bill but the mother thinks he was his best friend. He plays along. The affair starts but Tom is really in love with a younger girl named Julie (Gwyneth Paltrow). So far this is a lot like The Graduate and in my opinion this wasn't a good part of the movie although it had its funny scenes.The comparison with The Graduate holds on in the main plot-line may be, but The Pallbearer takes a different way in the way it is shown to us. I liked how the movie developed from that moment on. Especially the ending is well-chosen.David Schwimmer was a better lead than I expected, he wasn't that bad. Most funny scenes were happening because of him. Gwyneth Paltrow was lovely and for me she made sure I liked the movie a little more. It is not very good but it has a couple of good laughs, a nice story and a nice chemistry between Schwimmer and Paltrow. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This 1996 flick was directed and co-written by Matt Reeves along with Jason Katims. A sort of serious romantic comedy. I loved Barbara Hershey in this. She never disappoints. Playing the mother of a son she lost, she turns to companionship to help heal the loss. David Schwimmer, Ross in FRIENDS, helps her out. Schwimmer does an admirable job as a young man, almost a virgin in relationships.Then he meets the likes of Gwyneth Paltrow and sparks begin to fly. So, the plot thickens when he's up against the two ladies in his life. Add another lady, Carol Kane, his mother, who does a brilliant job as she fawns over her son. She's a riot and brings what little comedy there is to the movie.Friends to Schwimmer are played by Michael Rapaport as a groom to be, with advice for his friend, and Michael Vartan, who I have liked since THE NEXT BEST THING. They both add much to this movie.Not really a comedy, as the acting is quite real and often touching, but enjoyable to watch the two stars in the leads and an excellent supporting cast. "},{"Title":"Very good film that has been incorrectly  advertised as a light-hearted comedy","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The DVD cover to this film describes it as wildly entertaining. I find this characterization wildly inappropriate. Although it does have its comedic moments at the beginning (the funeral scenes are reminiscent of The Big Chill and the Chuckles the Clown episode of Mary Tyler Moore, the film smoothly evolves into a poignant story of Tom Thompson's(Schwimmer)search for the meaning of his life. He is hindered in part by his inability to get past an unrequited love in high school (played by Paltrow). Schwimmers's body language is so in tune to the emptiness of his character. His journey reminds me, once again of another film - Benjamin Braddock in The Graduate. Tom has three friends who give the appearance of having figured things out, but demonstrate their own frailties before the film is done. Barbara Hershey, in the role of the mother of the deceased, initially earns no sympathy, but by end of the film, there is more understanding, of if not empathy her character. (By the way, I mean no criticism in comparing this film or its characters to other film.)Don't see this film if you're looking for a light-hearted comedy. It's not Friends or Shallow Hall. It's a thoughtful film with an especially sweet performance by David Schwimmer. "},{"Title":"Very Watchable.","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'The Pallbearer' is a somewhat inoffensive film which most people could either take or leave. The film was Schwimmer's first attempt at non-'Friends' success but it bombed terribly at the box office and as a result remains unusual and unique in that so far it is his only attempt to carry a picture. I'm hesitant to call a it a star vehicle because it also features Gwenyth Paltrow but that is essentially what it is, or at least tries/was meant to be.I actually like this movie but I would have found it ultimately forgettable if it hadn't been constantly shown on one of the more obscure digital TV channels late at night just as I was coming in from work for a 6 month period a few years back.It has a good and recognisable cast which will put an audience at ease. Rappaport is as usual very funny and Schwimmer plays a very 'Ross'-esque character, given a ridiculous hair cut so that we can obviously differentiate from his 'Friends' persona. Paltrow looks cute and does what she does best.....pouts a lot.The plot itself centres around Schwimmer's character attempting to negotiate a relationship beyond friendship with his high school crush (Paltrow) who he has not been in contact with for years, presumably as he has only recently returned from completing his college studies. This is somewhat hindered though as he has also become intimately involved with the grieving mother of a recently deceased local man played by Barabra Hershey who believes, wrongly, that Schwimmer's character was her departed son's best , and for that matter only, friend at high school. As he is looking for some excitement in life Scwimmer's character was more than willing to maintain this incorrect assumption in order to bed the vulnerable Hershey character but after peddling the deception to the point where he delivers the eulogy at her son's funeral (at which he is also a Pallbearer hence the film's title) guilt begins to catch up with him and the 'Graduate'-esqu style of excitement he had previously felt is replaced by regret. There is also the underlying feeling to which many can probably relate of a post graduate who is struggling to move on with his life. This of course summons further comparisons with the earlier mentioned 'Graduate' from which this picture obviously draws major though not overly obvious influences.Tom Thompson (Schwimmer) has achieved an architectural degree but is struggling to find employment in the field and is back living in his old bedroom at his mother's house which looks , and where he is treated, like he is still at high school. To make matters worse his friends who live near by are all in 9-5 jobs and have all moved on with their lives to the point they are either married or engaged and are considering starting families. The relationship with Hershey seems to give a feeling of maturity whilst the reemergence of Paltrow has allowed him to recall happier and simpler times in his life where he wasn't under so much pressure to grow up.The story itself can be viewed as simplistic and not very exciting but it was matched by the slow pace. I myself actually appreciated it but maybe thats because I found relevance to my own life. Either way the audience can get some enjoyment out of the actor's performances and some sharp dialogue and set pieces. There are also some nice directorial touches though the film is not what you would call stylistic or a talky for that matter.Shwimmer's dead-pan comedic tone and facial expressions worked as well here as they do in 'Friends'. I felt he was just right for the role and enjoyed his performance. Though I accept that he is not to everyone's taste and for that reason many people will probably not enjoy this movie. Being a Shwimmer fan here is not a necessity but it certainly helps.On the whole this is the kind of film which works well at entertaining in a kind of personal way and in a subdued setting IE.- late at night in your living room with nothing else on or perhaps a rainy Saturday afternoon. It would have been an extremely unsatisfying cinematic event though and that is probably where most of the bad press for it comes from.Definitely not perfect but none the less a decent film which is made all the more worth while if you approach it with low expectations like I did.The underlying theme is about facing up to the difficulty of that crossroads in life when we realise that perhaps its time to move on from being a carefree youth to a mature adult. If that interests you then I guess this movie you will appreciate. "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect about this movie. I remembered that it was a bomb when it appeared in theatres so I kept passing it by at the video store.  It's often out but I'm glad that I took the time to watch it. I thought the characters were appealing & the situations they found themselves in rang true. A 25 year old floundering around, messing up with his friends was fitting. David Schwimmer isn't my favorite but the movie played to his strengths, and you can see that Gwyneth is due to break out as a star plus the rest of the cast is solid.  I am especially glad that I didn't read the comments until I saw the movie. I see the negative points but if you approach the movie as a quirky romantic comedy with a dark twist you will be entertained & laugh & smile some too.  "},{"Title":"Funny, Good Acting and Pleasant -OK-","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although I am watching this movie at this moment I am certain it is stable enough to comment on. The film is somewhat of a parody on relationships and relationship movies. The acting, scenes and writing are quite good. At some times this movie makes points, however it is mostly a silly movie to be enjoyed. More a movie to mellow on, it would be best to rent other films and use this film in between blockbusters. Pleasant would best describe this film with easy music and nice scenes and lots of scene changes it carries well. Somewhat nostalgic in feeling. A special mix here is the good fortune of Tom Thompson (David Schwimmer) that his actions are always amplified as altruistic. Be sure not to expect this to be the everything, drivemecrazy film because it is not, yet in this film everything plays off of Tom who as all fabled heroes may have his troubles when others realize his true actions. Some sexual content with very little violence.  "},{"Title":"A film the US does well","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I watched this film for the 1st time last night and immediately thought, how did I miss this one. The obscurity of the film was even mirrored by the fact that it doesn't even show in my timeout encyclopedia. Not being a huge Friends fan I used to be a little sceptical of Schwimmers talents but after seeing this film I must say that he's growing on me.This is the type of film that I love to see Americans making. It reminded me of Sideways and Nobody's fool. Great lines executed by a good cast. Hershey is very sexy and I wanted Tom to choose her over Paltrow, I know I would of.I laughed a fair few times and would probably watch this again in a couple of years time on a rainy Yorkshire afternoon. "},{"Title":"Nice Boy Nightmare","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Pallbearer is a story about a guy who has not gained anything in his life and his future does not look promising either. Well, he is healthy and sane but incredibly unfortunate because he has probably been a too kind person the life he was supposed to be living has slipped through his fingers. Turning now into latter part of his twenties he realizes that he's still a little boy and he should start doing something.He will have a hopeless crush on a girl, and likewise a widow who has lost his son too will have a hopeless crush on him and that leads into a romance that is both tragic and comical. David Schwimmer makes a good performance as the guy who has to survive from many kinds of embarrassing situations, and Paltrow as the woman will do the standard Paltrow set. Nothing too surprising in the plot but the film is relatively good watching because of some well worked little scenes that faintly resemble Mr. Bean episodes. "}{"Title":"pulled in...","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I feel fairly certain that had i watched this movie on video or in the theater it certainly would have been better. Unfortunately i saw it on cable with commercials defiling all the tension built up by a dramatic scene.***** spoiler ****** They almost lost me at the funeral scene. I simply could not get past the laugher of Tom's friends (aren't they in their 20's and NOT in their teens? ). I didn't find the scene funny but rather pathetic. Besides was Tom such a moron as to not be able to come up with any traditional things to say to the bereaved ? Perhaps its me, but I'm certain i could give a eulogy for anyone's funeral without problem while winging it the whole way.. Just think of positive adjectives (kind, caring, sweet, generous, thoughtful, smart, funny, witty, ...etc) then apply them to the deceased. And just take a pause to think between each set of compliments. Besides if he knew he was going to have do to this why not at least try to think of something ! The writers really dropped the ball on this one. Or they did a really good job of not being funny.Fortunately Paltrow's pretty face kept me around to see more of the film. Overall i think some of the drama of the film made it worth watching. Ironically, it was billed as a romantic comedy because I'm pretty sure i didn't laugh even once.6.5 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Saw it from television today and I must say I didn´t have high hopes of this movie. Never heard of it.I liked it straight from the beginning though. The Pallbearer is not a traditional Hollywood film. It´s a different kind of comedy...Schwimmer´s acting is very good. He gets into weird situations... And suddenly I just felt I had to laugh... I kept on laughing the whole movie through. I recommend it. There´s hope even for a loser like me... -) "},{"Title":"Ultimately disappointing","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Maybe you need low expectations to enjoy anything about this movie--I actually had very few at all except that I remember it being called a dark comedyat the time of its release. Well, dark comedies can be very well done and extremely funny, Doctor Strangelove and Harold and Maude come to mind. Unfortunately The Pallbearer doesn't deliver--there are some moments which are undeniably funny, though the eulogy mentioned in the tag line wasn't one of them. The plot is a little thin to hang a movie on, in fact it might have been better done as an episode of Friends, about twenty minutes could have handled the whole thing. There's an immense amount of filler here--long, excruciating shots of David Schwimmer and his goofy expression as he tries to pretend he knows the poor loser from high school, recently deceased, that he can't remember, but is asked to act as pallbearer for. Everyone in this movie seems to be in one form of pain or another--Paltrow keeps repeating how she has to leave, but really doesn't explain why, in fact part of the plot seems to be her inability to explain why. Those who like romantic comedies should stay away, for those who like just plain dark comedies might want to look elsewhere as well; question is whether a couple of funny moments in an otherwise dull bleak movie is worth the time. "},{"Title":"Not very funny and a pretty boring one.","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a romantic comedy about a young man who is thrown through a roller coaster when he is asked to be a pallbearer at the funeral of a high school classmate he doesn't remember, and, in the process, runs into his high school crush.As with many romantic comedies, in this movie, people meet, date, fall in love, make love, break-up and try to go on with their lives. There is a lack of suspense and intrigue in this movie, but some character development and heartfelt moments. The mediocre acting, though, made this a not-so-funny flick. If you're a fan of romantic comedies, it won't hurt to look for others.Grade D+ "},{"Title":"Poignant, funny, great acting---underrated gem","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I know it has been said already, but a 4.8 rating is criminally low for this movie. I'm guessing, based on my own pre-viewing experience, that the low rating is due to viewer expectations. After reading the cover of the VHS copy I watched, I expected Pallbearers to be a lighthearted, screwball comedy. Although there were comic moments, the movie also explored deeper terrain, and was all the better for it. I thought Pallbearers presented a seamless blend of humor and some poignant stuff about the angsty, turbulent ethos of the early 20's. David Schimmer was neurotic, charming, endearing, and overall fantastic in the lead role (shades of Woody Allen) and the supporting actors were all convincing in theirs. I also thought that the soundtrack fit the movie perfectly, providing the perfect backdrop for tones that were simultaneously wistful, bittersweet, romantic, and humorous. Maybe the movie appealed to me especially because I really connected with some of the experiences and emotions explored; nevertheless, I give it a solid 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Truly a film ahead of its time in its portrait of lost twenty somethings","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" No One really needs another review of this but i'll try.The Pallbearer sustains a beautifully melancholic tone throughout its running time. Those of you who've sat through countless indie films will realize how incredibly hard this is to do in practice. You push this tone too much, you run the risk of looking overly self indulgent or pompous...The Pallbearer doesn't look either of these---it manages to effectively convey the main character's sad existence, the lack of dreams he has for himself, as well as the realization that he's going to need some if he ever wants to get out of his mom's house in Brooklyn.That it manages to set this up while pursuing an unrequited love plot line----schwimmer meets up with his long term high school crush at a social function and resumes pining for her (and yes this was Gwenyth Paltrow's first major role at the time i believe)--while slowly realizing that he could actually date her if he wanted to--which he then attempts to and slowly but surely fumbles away. Its his fumbling that actually makes this plot line work--because his character has such lack of confidence in his abilities to do anything successfully you can almost see how he's just completely sabotaging this relationship up almost as a default setting.The plot borrows a strong ingredient from The Graduate--In short order Schwimmer's character ends up bedding a much older woman---and a much more dominant one as well--but i think his relationship with her comes from a different place then Dustin Hoffman's reasons for bedding Mrs. Robinson in The Graduate. Schwimmer's character feels like a loser, so he acts like a loser, so he continues to live like a loser--perpetuating the cycle--its not exactly an act of rebellion or an act of concern about his future the way it was for Hoffman---but still its a key plot point of The Graduate and the two films similarities in plot and tone are hard to overlook---and yet The Pallbearer got to me in a way that The Graduate never did. Maybe its because The Pallbearer is more contemporary (although not too contemporary--if it was done today--schwimmer's character would spend all of his time on message boards on the internet for sure.) but i definitely felt this film strike a nerve deep within me far more painfully then The Graduate did.This film also was the first one produced by none other then JJ Abrams--2 years before Felicity made its debut on TV--and a full 8 years before LOST premiered. It was also written by frequent TV writer Jason Katims (he of Friday Night Lights, Boston Public, Roswell, and various other rather uncommonly well written television shows concerning modern wayward youth) and directed by Matt Reeves who went on to direct Cloverfield and Let Me In (which is odd because the only horror this film has is completely in the abstract societal sense.) Either way--there was a lot of major talent involved behind the making of this film that was just starting out here for the first time--and i truly believe it to be a far more noteworthy film not only because of that but also because this movie was completely ahead of its time in showing you the whole twenty somethings who don't know what to do with their life stage of life---and also a truly underrated film on its own merits worthy of study and a true successor to The Graduate (and the fact that it'll prob never be seen as such largely sucks.) "},{"Title":"Who is Bill Abernathy?","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Tom Thompson, a nerdy Brooklyn man, is 25 when we meet him. He still lives at home with his overbearing mother, occupying the same room he lived when he was a teen ager. Tom's placid existence comes to an abrupt stop when he receives a phone call from a Mrs. Abernathy, who proceeds to tell him about the death of her son Bill, who supposedly had been a school mate of Tom's, but as much as he tries to remember the departed classmate, he can't seem to remember. She invites him to be a pallbearer at the funeral.At the same time, Tom, who doesn't seem to have social graces at all, meets a young woman, Julie DeMarco, from his past. He always liked her, but being shy, never told her about the way he felt about her. All this happens at the time when Tom is trying to enlist his friends, Brad and Scott, to accompany him to the funeral. Little prepare Tom for the embarrassment he undergoes while delivering the eulogy. After all, he doesn't even remember the dead man! To make matters worse, Julie, who knew the late Bill Abernathy, is appalled at the spectacle she sees.The Pallbearer, based on David Lipsky's novel, which we never read, was adapted for the screen by Matt Reeves, who also directs, and Jason Katims. The film evokes other films, specially certain aspects of The Graduate, or even the hit television series Friends, in which the leading man, had a prominent role. After watching the movie, we are going to make the point of reading the book, because it appears this work didn't quite translate to the screen, as conceived by its creator.What the film has going for itself is the interesting cast assembled for it. Never having been a fan of David Schwimmer, we have to admit he does a decent job because he is playing against type. Gwyneth Paltrow's take on Julie doesn't quite come across, but she always gives good readings in anything she appears. The surprise was Barbara Hershey, who as Mrs. Abernathy brings substance to a role that could have been a caricature with another, less experienced actress.The excellent supporting role is about the best thing in the movie. Michael Rappaport, a versatile actor, gives a fine performance as Tom's best friend. The amazing Carol Kane is never seen too long, but has a couple of funny scenes as Tom's mother. Tony Collette, as a brunette doesn't get to do much; also in minor roles, Michael Vartan, Mark Margolies, Elizabeth Franz and the rest, contribute to the film. "},{"Title":"The Graduate in the 90s","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Heartfelt as much as it is real, this movie reminds me of the graduate. David Schwimmer does an admirable job, although I cannot say the same about Gwyneth Paltrow. (since I've watched this movie almost five years ago and I don't even remember her role ). Memorable performance with some of the cast, especially Carol Kane's role as Tom's mother, brings forth such grace and texture to a role whose character requires no less complexity (which makes Mrs. Robinson in The Graduate look almost two-dimensional). It remains a mystery to me why this movie was rated so lowly on IMDb, and in general. Still gold has to shine and I would strongly recommend this movie to anyone who does not hate the Ross (as in Friends)personality, and is tired of comedies that try too hard. "},{"Title":"A Glorified Indie With Great Heart","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This has always been one of my favorites from the mid-1990s time period. I think when the film was marketed, it was playing on the growing popularity of Ross from Friends as opposed to David Schwimmer in what is ultimately a glorified indie flic, with a Gwyneth Paltrow that reminds you of why she is a bona-fide star.The performances ring true, and sure, there are problems, but Barbara Hershey once again proves that she's one of the most under-rated actresses of her generation. It's incredibly obvious throughout the film that the photography was guided by the masterful Robert Elswit, showing early signs of the brilliance that has made him an Oscar winner, and the additional eyes of Paul Thomas Anderson.They incredibly mis-marketed this film, and thus there was a Friends audience running to the theatre to see something that was far too dark for liking. I stick The Pallbearer into my category of films that includes both Beautiful Girls and The Myth of Fingerprints. I wouldn't say it's superior to these examples of character driven, it's time to make some life decisions comedies, but it's certainly worth watching and enjoying. "},{"Title":"A few good words","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I actually rather like this one. It has taken a real beating here, so I feel compelled to defend this quiet, charming story. It's part Harold and Maude, part Annie Hall, and worth seeing just for Carol Kane's performance as Schwimmer's mother.So many films in this genre are sugar-coated and reductive; I like that this one faces the complexities of unrequited love, of histories, of high school. The story is told with love and with detail -- we are in Brooklyn. It's Schwimmer's best performance to date, hands down. And Paltrow finds some interesting levels within a character that could have been one-note. Great soundtrack, too, with nice stuff from Richie Havens, Django Reinhardt, and others. "}{"Title":"a tender comedy perfect for a rainy day.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes thats a cheesy way to sum it up but you might understand after seeing the movie.  First of all you cant let David Schwimmer make you wary of the film just because youre sick of Friends, hey- we all are.  You must remember that he is paired up with lovely Gwyneth and she is as enchanting as ever. The movie is almost sad at times (there is the subject of death and some moving imagery.) But I really think the humor comes through and is delivered well enough to make the comedy effortless.  And thats one thing I really appreciated about this movie.  They didnt force it to be some chintzy romantic comedy.  Its just romantic and comedic in its own right.  "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie last week I thought It was cool.  Gwyneth Paltrow, had a cool role as Julie DeMarco.  I like the characters in this movie.  There were very unique.  You don't see alot of movies with this type of scenerio.  "},{"Title":"An underestimated film.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I felt the need to comment on this movie due to the bad reviews that other people have put forward. This type of film is a rarity these days (combining genuine comedy and good characters with whom you can become involved, and a simple story line that simply...works).David Schwimmer offers a fine performance as Tom Thompson - a simple man, whose life is complicated by the death of an old school friend of whom he has no recollection - and this brings about some interesting moments.I suggest that anyone who has avoided this film because of an undeserved reputation should rent it on video right away, and for those who have seen it and disliked it, try it again; maybe you'll see what you missed on a second viewing. "},{"Title":"Great movie, Gwyneth Paltrow, SCHWINGGGGGGGGGGGG !!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think its a great movie, I first saw sliding doors and I thought I just have to see other movies with Gwyneth and so I bought The Pallbearer. I liked it. Definitely worth buying it. David Schwimmer, Friends, Also great actor not in most movies but in friends he is very cool, and in The Pallbearer he is playing just fine, not as bad as in breast men. He also plays the nerd just as in friends.conclusion, WATCH THIS MOVIE  "},{"Title":"This movie grows on me.","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a good,good story. I don' t care what anyone else thinks about it. David Schwimmer does start weak and is almost embarrassingly bad at the funeral before the story develops. Gwyneth Paltrow and Barbra Hershey hold things together. The scenes of Julie on the back porch and in Tom's bedroom are great. Mrs.Abernathy saying goodbye to Tom is touching to say the least. When seen after the first time,the story is motivational. It emits patience in love and gives a view of real rock solid friendships. Finally, the music in the background especially in the scenes at the wedding,the reception,and during the credits is great. I'm glad I own this movie. "},{"Title":"Endearing script wins over heart","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Upon first viewing of this film at release I wasn't much impressed, but upon a recent second viewing (and because I liked it so much a third viewing as well) I have decided that this film is not only well written and well acted (despite what characters the actors may have played before, it works) it deserves to be in my personal top ten.  Gwyneth Paltrow plays a 24 year old in search for identity, and it may just be my generation's quintessential I've had a job for a few years and hate it I've just graduated and can't find a job Everyone I know is still living with their parents Dealing with best friends getting married movie.  Sure, it's heartwarming, but that doesn't take away from wonderfully crafted scenes with perfect poignancy and a good soundtrack to boot.  There are also good performances by Toni Collette, Michael Vartan and Michael Rapaport.  I highly reccommend seeing this film. "},{"Title":"just fantastic","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  simply one of my favorite movies, that´s all I can say..for everybody who was once at crossroads in his/her life or still is, this movie is an eye opener, and for the rest it´ll be a beautiful tale of how life can play out..david schwimmer for the girls, gwyneth for the boys, 10/10!! "},{"Title":"It's a black comedy folks","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I would suspect that most reviewers on this page are disappointed for not being handed the cookie cutter romantic comedy that the poster art for this film suggests. Not getting the conventional romantic comedy was what I liked most about this well written and darkly hilarious film. In THE PALLBEARER, we are shown the effect that Gwyneth Paltrow's character has on David Shwimmer's character. In the end, Tom's the guy we're meant to focus on, not Julie, or even the relationship between the two. Even if the general consensus is that this film is sub-par, I'll have to stick to my conclusion that THE PALLBEARER was an exceptionally made black comedy.  "},{"Title":"Recommended to Schwimmer fans...and others too","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, actually i've seen this movie on tv, so there wasn't any waste of money for me, but i don't actually think that it would be any waste if i've seen it on theater (does it make sense? naaah P). Anyway i loved this movie just 'cause i didn't think of this as a black comedy from the beginning to the end. 'Cause it's not a comedy as it claims to be. It's a dark movie&one of these that i can't really decide to what genre they belong, but that i like so much. The actors are good (i'm a huge Schwimmer fan&i also adore Gwyneth Paltrow-so my opinion may not be very objective,hehe), also it has sweet moments of its own. To end it, don't expect so much of anything in life, you won't be disappointed. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Better Than Friends...Worth The Rental","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Upfront, you should know that I have never watched a complete episode of Friends and Paltrow is ossifying rapidly with every additional role she takes.... ...So this is a movie with heart that more accurately depicts white 20sumthins at the end of the 20th century in Metropolitan, USA, than most Hollywood filler, and adroitly tosses in a Pacer, Bosco, Queens, a boy's love for his baseball cards, *and* Django Rheinhardt.  The movie and its performances give a much more honest attitude and effort in showing characters trying to grab a hold of the 'next' step in life than most flix picked off of the indie critic-pleasing-platter. "}{"Title":"Okay off-kilter slow mover.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Pallbearer, a schizophrenic cross-genre muddling of comedy, drama, and romance with idiosyncratic characters and a thin, marginally interesting story. Schwimmer is at the center of this slow moving, somewhat quirky flick about a young man who lives with his mother (Bosco anyone?) and courts a demure unassured girl (Paltrow) while having an affair with an older woman (Hershey).  Most will find it difficult to get their head into this off-kilter story and its subtle tongue-in-cheek humor though it remains loyal to its purpose throughout...whatever that may be. "},{"Title":"Light comedy with darker undertones","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" SPOILER AHEAD! I never watched Friends, and I appreciate that the film's flavour will for many viewers will be overlaid with Schwimmer's earlier persona. Viewing it in isolation as I did, I found it a staple comedy scenario the excruciating complications that arise from a character's lack of assertiveness in failing to admit a situation of mistaken identity. However, the joke grows increasingly uncomfortable for Tom, this unassertiveness is pathological, related to his failure to grow up. His friends have careers and relationships, but he still lives with his mother, jobless and fixated on a woman he liked at school. In real life, it would be inconceivable for such a person to end up with Gwyneth Paltrow, and the film doesn't strain our disbelief in this respect. This is less a romantic comedy than a rite-of-passage story, Tom beginning (we hope) a belated journey to adulthood. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some say. Very good one, in fact...","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must say I don't usually sit down and watch movies on TV, since very rarely one catches my attention (haven't got cable TV) but The Pallbearer immediately caught my attention. Still, I don't know how... maybe it was Mrs Paltrow's beauty (I had never seen her before!).The movie is not boring at all and very romantic, although I agree that the plot is a bit weak. The acting was quite good, specially for Paltrow. As a matter of fact I don't think I would have liked the movie if Paltrow hadn't acted as Julia.. "},{"Title":"Great surprise!","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A movie that has clearly divided opinions, which usually is a good sign.I wasn't expecting much but after the first five minutes I had to watch. I wouldn't rate it as a comedy, although, it had a some good laughs in it. The mood was so natural that it brought in mind the movie AVANTI ! with Jack Lemmon. Schwimmer may not be a versatile actor but he was the right person in this movie. No bad word about anyone else either. A movie about search, relationships and humanity. A must see for a hopeless romantic or a realist. Just let it take you. "},{"Title":" Occasionally funny but has a love story that just doesn't cut it","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Pallbearer is a disappointment and at times extremely boring with a love story that just doesn't work partly with the casting of Gwyneth Paltrow (Julie). Gwyneth Paltrow walks through the entire film with a confused look on her face and its hard to tell what David Schwimmer even sees in her.However The Pallbearer at times is funny particularly the church scene and the group scenes with his friends are a laugh but that's basically it. Watch The Pallbearer for those scenes only and fast forward the rest. Trust me you aren't missing much. "},{"Title":"Blech","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although I found this movie mildly watchable I am amazed that David Schwimmer can get away with showing an unsuspecting viewing public his flabby torso.  Blech! This was a perfect example of Hollywood's double standard, Paltrow's anorexic frame vs. Schwimmers' flaborama.   "},{"Title":"Think of this movie as an old lady you find yourself stuck behind on the street...","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ... You can't exactly shove her out of the way, because she's old; and if you were being charitable you might say that the ponderous gait she ambles along with isn't really her fault. Nevertheless, in these circumstances it's often difficult not to become irritated when you find yourself dragging your heels in her wake. So it is with The Pallbearer, an attempt to do something 'different' with a romantic comedy that in this way is chiefly hamstrung because the venue is all wrong; sort of like showing off your 'breakdancing' skills at a grandparent's funeral.To further extend the metaphor (perhaps unwisely!); like the old lady, one starts to feel with the set-up of the film that its demise cannot be far away. Sure enough, this particular 'death' is agonizingly protracted, slowly chipping away at our reserves of empathy in tiny little increments, as depressingly we come to the realisation that the proceedings are only headed in one direction Downhill. Its laboured attempts at 'humour' can be seen coming a mile off - again, not unlike the grim inevitability of death!Returning once again to the image of 'dragging heels', the main character, Tom, is shown to ceaselessly repeat this action throughout his life. If there are indeed degrees of 'pathetic', then this sap is possibly a good few notches ahead of Schwimmer's other - more famous - role. To find oneself in the awkward position of having to align audience sympathies with a character even MORE 'clueless' than Ross is certainly a tough ask even for as 'able' a comic performer as Schwimmer, but I guess he can find fault with himself for signing on to some seriously 'echoing' situations in the first place.How will he ever escape his most famous portrayal if he's picking scripts where the characters could almost be 'interchangeable', even if the situations aren't? A man with a longstanding high-school crush on someone he hasn't seen for years. Sound familiar... ? Paltrow is nothing else if not bland in her 'Rachel' role, but all of this going over old ground would perhaps be forgivable if the noticeable DIFFERENCES present weren't so incongruous as well. Unfortunately, the romantic element is so well-worn it's threadbare, and the 'backdrop' is so inappropriate that it seems the best way to describe the resultant film is as something of a 'stiff'... ! 2/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty dreary stuff I'm afraid","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not maybe as bad as some of IMDB's reviewers have made it out to be, but a pretty dull film nonetheless. It's major fault is that it tries to be something it clearly isn't - an intelligent social drama of a comedy. This is nothing more than an excuse for TV-star Schwimmer to pull as many confused/hurt/rejected faces as possible. If it just concentrated in providing the viewer with 90 minutes' trashy escapism it could have got away with its many flaws. However the film lingers far too much on everyday events, portraying them as though this is groundbreaking cinema. Paltrow is as wooden as an old garden shed, and the supporting cast were...sorry, don't recall a single one having any impact whatsoever.A potential popcorn piece is sadly a misguided miserable mess. "},{"Title":"This movie TRIES to be better than this....","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In a nutshell this is a cookie cutter romantic comedy that really WANTS and TRIES to be something more. It wants to be Harold and Maude, Annie Hall, The Graduate. It wants to be deep and human. It has interesting camera shots, lighting, music, editing, all of which give it the feel of an important movie. The dialog is smart -- at times. There are some laugh out loud moments.But here's what keeps it from ultimately being anything more than a formulaic late-night-cable, in-flight, time-killer 1. David Schwimmer -- how many times can Joe sad-sack puppy dog stare blankly into space with his jaw hanging open before it starts to get annoying? Maybe some drool would have helped.2. Gwenneth Paltrow -- she's really flat here and not just in the chest. Her role is supposed to be this lively, nice, caring girl who just keeps getting herself into wrong situations, is very confused as a result, and that is why a sad-sack loser like Schwimmer has any chance with her. But Gwenneth plays her very dull. Combine this with puppy-dog drool-face (above) and you have very little chemistry to care about.(I kept picturing someone else in this role -- Kate Hudson for example.) 3. The script and the plot -- the stuff that happens just basically doesn't ring true; all the problems get wrapped up in the end with such a neat and tidy bow on top that it seems like a whistle blew and the script writers just said oops, time to wrap it up, got a train to catch! So they pulled out the Hollywood formula book, checked off all the boxes, and went home. "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy that did not take off","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is about a college graduate whose life is a mess. She gets a surprise invitation to a funeral and met 2 women who would become important in his life.David Schwimmer's character was not developed in a way to make him likable. He seemed sad and radiated negative energy throughout. The film would be so much better if his character was more positive. After all, people who goes to see a movie, especially a romantic comedy, wants to feel good.Gwyneth Paltrow, on the other hand, was developed to be a likable, ordinary girl. however, I felt that she was underused in this film. Well, this may be because she was yet to be famous when this film was made. Ms Abernathy, played by Barbara Hershey, was very well portrayed. I don't recall seeing her before. Her face, especially her eyes, reminded me of Jessica Lange.The story was not so likable, and the name of the film might put people off watching it. If it had another title and a more uplifting script, this could have been a great film. "}{"Title":"Ew.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved Friends, I love Michael Rappaport and I love Michael Vartan even more. . .yet I could barely sit through this dreadful film. (I gave it a 5/10 only because it's two hours of staring at Michael Vartan and I'm jonesing for Alias Season 5, so I'll do anything to stare at Not!Vaughn.) The characters are wholly unlikeable, the plot is outrageously ridiculous and Gwyneth Paltrow's admirable acting chops are utterly wasted in this awful excuse for a film.To be very frank, I'm not really sure what any of them were thinking when they decided to sign on for this film. Michael Rappaport in particular is a fabulous character actor. This film did solve one mystery how Michael Rappaport and Michael Vartan won their fabulous guest spots on Friends. "},{"Title":"okay if you are bored","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  it was 330 when this came on the fox network, and there was nothing else on, so i watched it and was pleasantly surprised. The plot line fit together nicely. I wouldnt pay money to see this, but if it is ever on, it might be worth watching. its not a very long movie anyway... "},{"Title":"What is name of song at very end, where Gwyneth says I love this song","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  what is the name of the song at very end, where Gwyneth paltrow says I love this song and then it reminds them of the time tom wanted to ask julie to dance but couldn't, argh this is driving me crazy.  that song is soo good. "},{"Title":"Not too bad. Slow at times.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not to keen on The Pallbearer, it's not too bad, but just very slow at the times. As the movie goes on, it gets a little more interesting, but nothing brilliant. I really like David Schwimmer and I think he's good here. I'm not a massive Gwyneth Paltrow fan, but I don't mind her sometimes and she's okay here. The Pallbearer is not a highly recommended movie, but if you like the leads then you might enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Stupifyingly bad","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Three years ago I was on vacation with my family in California. On the last day, everything went wrong. Upon calling home we found out our dog had died, after swimming in the ocean we were unable to shower and I was covered with salt residue for the rest of the day. After boarding a small plane in a storm for a 7 hour Red Eye flight I thought that things couldn't get worse. Then the Pallbearer came on. This was one of the worst films I have ever seen. Between its combination of no humour, melodramatic plotting and a slew of other problems this film comes off as simply depressing. It's like watching the Graduate (who's plot they completely copy) with all the good parts taken out. It is a joyless trip through narcissism and idiocy that anyone with half a brain should miss. "},{"Title":"Best non-funny movie ever to be called a comedy","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wish I had my rental money back from this piece of trash so I could donate it to the Home for Aged Actors. Total rubbish!! Five people watched this movie at the same time and there wasn't one single laugh to be heard, lots of yawning though. Paltrow's a beautiful woman and she was the best thing to look at in the entire so-called comedic movie.. "},{"Title":"It Sucks!!!!!1","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I hated this movie.  It was a waste of my money.  Don't waste your's too.  If you like David Schwimmer, you might be inclined to watch it, but don't.  It is truly awful. "},{"Title":"Inane and motiveless","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Gwyneth Paltrow is absolutely great in this movie, but the story is, unfortunately, half-baked, and David Schwimmer's energy is sort of like cold mush.  When he closes his mouth and gets serious for a moment or two there is a rush of what-might-have-been. Who thought 25-year-old kiddies would be entertaining?  "},{"Title":"Lame in every aspect","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some 25 year olds behave like teenagers, coping with the death of a high-school mate, trying to find their purpose in live and love. The script is so lame that I had to force myself to even finish this movie. Stay away from it. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly unfunny","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is advertised as a clever romantic comedy.  It is neither clever nor romantic and it is definitely not an effective comedy.  The fortunes of the well meaning yet pathetic character, Tom, oscillate from one extremely embarrassing disaster to another.  The only saving graces are the competent performance by Toni Collete and the frequency with which we glimpse Paltrow's pleasant face.  Overall, to be avoided! "}{"Title":"This movie was disappointing at best","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The interplay between the characters is a moral disaster.  You end up disliking most of the characters and you don't particularly like any of them.Even the two main characters played by David and Gwen are so badly written that you really don't care one bit about them.  The movie has no plot, no direction and no purpose.  The single redeeming quality of the movie was to treat it as a glimpse into the messed up lives of a few losers - and that's hardly stimulating even as an afternoon waste. "},{"Title":"Life's too short...","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Life is really too short for movies like this. I knew it couldn't be good when I realized what I'd already suspected - that David Schwimmer would be playing the exact same type of person he plays in 'Friends'.Let's face it, either the guy can't play anything but a nerd or he is never offered any other parts. I have a feeling that it's a mixture of both.And I have to say that it is extremely difficult to like a movie that utterly wastes the considerable talents of Gwyneth Paltrow, Barbara Hershey, Toni Collette and Carol Kane!!! "},{"Title":"i gave them 2... don't know why - i was too generous","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  no comment - stupid movie, acting average or worse...  screenplay - no sense at all... SKIP IT! "},{"Title":"Can't think of a single good thing to say","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Let's see...I'm trying to practice finding the positive in everything, so what kind thing can I say about the Pallbearer?I know! The performances were -- no, that won't work as they succeeded in draining all personality from Gwyneth Paltrow, usually so vibrant, and ended up creating caricatures out of Carol Kane and Barbara Hershey...Oh - how 'bout the story -- nope. That isn't gonna fly either, as it was doze-inducing. What was the genre anyway? It wasn't funny, that rules out comedy. It wasn't interesting enough to be dramatic. Was that a romance between Schwimmer and Paltrow?  I have to ask, as I can't be sure - let's just call it losers in like.  I'm sure those behind this film started with a vision, I mean, they must have had one to pitch to the studio suits, but I need help finding it.Even if I were a patient person who could forgive the pure stupidity of the story, I couldn't in good conscience recommend a film that allows a guy to go into a professional job interview in a windbreaker and messy, fluffy, stupid hair. Speaking of hair -- are we supposed to be amused by the deliberate black roots and platinum locks worn by Hershey?What am I doing? I already lost 97 irretrievable minutes in the actual watching of the movie -- I cannot devote any more time to this loser.  "}]