[{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"106 out of 121 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie doesn't get the credit that it deserves. Travolta's speech at the end of the movie to the doctor is incredible. Rarely do I ever see a movie that acknowledges the value of a single human life like this movie does. Most movies glorify sacrifice. This movie glorifies life. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"An Inspiration!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"61 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  An ex-girlfriend talked me into seeing this movie, and I am happy she did. In my opinion, John Travolta deserved at least a nomination for an Oscar here, if not the award itself. The story was decent, but the performances of Travolta, Forest Whitaker, Robert Duvall, and Kyra Sedgwick made me care about what was happening on the screen. By no means is this a romantic comedy. It's romantic, probably the most romantic film I have seen in a long time. The reason for that is simple...it's real. In most movies you see the main characters sleep together within a day at the most, which rarely happens with two people who are really in love. True love has to take time and effort, which is exactly what you see here. Travolta's George is patient, but not because he wants to be. If you're a romantic at heart you will understand and relate to him, and you will hope for his success as you would for your own. Without giving anything away, I will tell you that the ending is sad, but also heartwarming. George has his experience for no other reason than to suggest what we as humans can become. Phenomenon is a story about our potential, the good and bad things that can happen to us if we achieve it. We could only be so lucky, and watching the movie is a good start. I give it 8 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"A Phenomenal Experience.","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"50 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  An ordinary small-town man (John Travolta) sees a flash of light in the sky one night and then starts to experience super-intelligence and telekinesis. Soon he is changing everyone's life for the better (most notably love interest Kyra Sedgwick, town doctor Robert Duvall and best friend Forest Whitaker). Slyly funny and innovative at first and then impressively dramatic and thought-provoking, Phenomenon is an effective picture that comes through because of good performances across the board and smart screen-writing. Travolta and Duvall are excellent together and they share the spotlight in the venture. Under-rated production that should be given a try. It is one of those films that will cause your emotions to come shining through. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"very underrated","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"52 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" My favorite movies are Pulp fiction, Run Lola Run, Seven, and A Clockwork Orange. So how in the world do I like Phenomenon? It is very well-made (i.e. lighting, direction, editing), excellente acting, and a very strong message. Give it a real chance, and you can't deny that it is at least good. I personally gave it a 9 out of ten, and I'm rarely that generous. "},{"Title":"More than it might seem to be","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"45 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I think any movie that can be described as both (a) a Scientology recruiting pamphlet, and (b) an analogy to Jesus' life has to be a bit out of the ordinary.  In some ways, this film reminds me of another seeming science fiction movie that really turned out to be about people's response to the unusual `Charly'   In both films an extraordinary increase in intelligence frightened the people around the main character; they just couldn't deal with it and feared him for it. The love story was a gem.  Lacy had obviously been badly hurt by a past relationship, and simply didn't want to encourage George's love.  But when he began to be hurt by the way some of his friends treated him, she warmed and opened her heart to him. The way George tried to describe how he looked at things differently and saw relationships that he'd never seen before reminded me of classical descriptions of the act of creativity in many fields.  And it's a sad thing but true that we are all capable of concentrating harder and focusing on things to achieve more, but it's very difficult, and more often than not, we tend to take the easier road. Good thought-provoking flick.  "},{"Title":"Travolta and Duval at their finest.....","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"44 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"       This movie was, without a doubt, one of the finest ever made in a long, long time.  I was expecting ti to take a sci-fi route with abductions and vulcan mind-melds...but the ending and explanation for George's predicament are not only plausable but heart-breaking.  You cannot help but feel for a like George Malley.  I didn't buy into too much of the hyseria surrounding the townsfolk as it seemed a little tacked on...but the performances by Travolta, Duval, Kyra Sedgwick and Forrest Whitaker made up for any shortcomings and plot holes.  I have watched this movie time and time again and the combination of true emotional drama and a beautiful score nearly bring me to tears everytime.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best movie of the year (1996)","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"44 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" When I saw this movie in the theater, I was on a first date with a nice lady. However, she appeared to not be moved by the movie and showed no emotions at all, not even one tear. Seeing as how this movie is a real tear jerker, I thought she was not my kind of women. I have seen this movie about 10 times (or so) and never tire of it. Absolutely wonderful. Great casting, writing, directing and acting. Everyone involved is at their very best! Truly a must see movie. John Travolta was superb here and Kyra Sedgewick was at her very best! This movie is pure magic. It made me cry happy and sad tears. Truly a remarkable achievement. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"the magic of energy in everything and everyone","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"35 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Phenomenon is a story about energy that is in everything and everyone. It's a very subtle and philosophical film that expresses more than meets your senses. It goes right for your heart and stays there. One might argue that it is a very sugarsweet tale of the things that make life (worthwhile), but there is so much more to it. The heart of the matter is that nothing goes to waste in the universe. Everything is on it's way to somewhere all the time. Energy will manifest itself without getting tired. Things, bodies, thoughts, even love, are all vessels that are secondary to the spirit that drives them. This sounds all very vague and maybe even religious-like. But indeed some things are hard to explain. Questions are often a waste of time. So don't ask where all this energy originates from. Phenomenon will not provide the answer, at least it is not pretentious in that direction because the makers realize that the human-mind is unfit to grasp this in the first place. Phenomenology is the philosophical school that investigates how things appear in the world. The film shows that it is often slightly or profoundly different from how it looks at first hand. I enjoyed the simple way of presenting this very complicated message that matters to all of us and everything else too.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes you just gotta go with it","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Phenomenon is about a small town auto mechanic (Travolta) who experiences something he can only describe as being light and suddenly has peculiar powers such as being able to learn to speak  Portuguese in 20 minutes or understanding Dianetics. At issue is, will these powers, which make him the object of fear and awe by the townsfolk, help of hurt his chances with his reluctant love interest (Sedgwick). An pleasant little folksy, Mayberry RFDish flick, Phenomenon sticks to the people story and doesn't go off into sci-fi-land as it conjures up the warm and fuzzies, takes a romantic turn with the best haircut & shave since Wrestling Ernest Hemingway, and tries hard to deliver a message about what's important in life. Yes, the film gets a little sugary sweet but...okay, it gets a lot sugary sweet...but, if you go with it and don't fight it you'll be assured of a pleasant three star watch. Good stuff for sentimentalists. (B) "},{"Title":"Augmented Human Interest","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not usually inspired to review your average hollywood fare, but I was moved by this film.  Not only did it portray dramatic tension between one who is experiencing 'supernatural' awareness and their hokey, small-town friends, but Phenomenon also gains rank by being one of the first few films with a completely 'open mind.'  I attribute its existence to the film Powder, which came out a few years ago, and I am honestly looking forward to more innovative dramas in a similar vein.It will probably not become a classic, but it deserves to be seen in its time.  Perhaps the honesty of this film will inspire other, greater filmmakers with more influence to change their ways and provide more thinking elements in their films.Watch it with a loved one on a Saturday night.  A good alternative to show those boyfriends who are  caught up in their own male-ness.  Try this before plopping in Gone with the Wind.  It may bridge the gap.  "}{"Title":"Excellent film, that's actually quite moving and very sentimental, with a pretty engrossing story, John Travolta is at his best here!","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is an excellent film, that's actually quite moving and very sentimental, with a pretty engrossing story, John Travolta is at his best here!. All the characters are awesome, and the ending while very sad was extremely well done, plus John Travolta is simply incredible in this!. I know a lot of people claimed that this was too sentimental, but I love sentimental so it didn't bother me, and this is one of Travolta's best performances in my opinion, plus it's extremely well made and very well written as well. Kyra Sedgwick is really excellent in her role here, and I thought it had a nice romantic story too, plus I loved all of the telekinetic scenes that Travolta did as well. I loved how they paid tribute at the end to George Malley, and I felt bad for Travolta's character when he was trying to explain stuff at the book fare, plus Travolta and Sedgwick had really good chemistry together. This should be a lot higher then 6.3 in my opinion, and I didn't see the big twist in this coming at all, plus I especially loved Forest Whitaker's character. This is an excellent film, that's actually quite moving and very sentimental, with a pretty engrossing story, John Travolta is at his best here, and I say it's a must see for everyone!. The Direction is excellent!. Jon Turteltaub does an excellent! job here with wonderful camera work, using a great setting, and just keeping the film at an engrossing pace. The Acting is outstanding!. John Travolta is amazing as always and is incredible here, he is just extremely likable, gives one of his best performances, had a character we can care for, had really good chemistry with Kyra Segwick, brought his usual awesome charisma, and was especially good near the end, as I felt so bad for him. Kyra Sedgwick is really excellent here, she was cute, extremely likable, had a winning presence, and I just couldn't help but love her, unlike others I thought she was perfect for this part!. Forest Whitaker is awesome as George's best friend he had good chemistry with Travolta, was funny and brought lots of life into the film, I loved him. Robert Duvall is wonderful as always and does awesome as The Doc, he didn't have a whole lot of screen time, but was fantastic when he was on screen!. David Gallagher and Ashley Buccille are both awesome as the kids, and were very likable. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Everyone Should See This Movie!","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful movie about LIFE. The story is presented as a fable with Alien Intelligence replacing Aesop. Love and death are covered in a humorous and serious vein. The acting is superb. John Travolta is believable as a small-time townie. Reaffirms the belief that people want a person to remain the same despite obvious changes. That love is an important element in everyone's life...and death. Has a wonderful scene in which George is explaining death to two children (main characters in the film and wonderful actors). In this scene, he explains that an apple is on its' way to becoming something else. I love this film and plan to purchase it for my film library. "},{"Title":"This will forever be my favorite John Travolta movie!","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie shows John Travolta at his best. I think his performance here should have been nominated for an Oscar. What a lovely, powerful film. It's a paean to all the geeks in the world. George is clearly beloved by his fellow residents, but after he sees THE LIGHT, he becomes a misfit because of the changes in him. Those changes mean he becomes an insider, a stranger in a strange land. He becomes even more precious than he had been in the first 11 minutes of the film. He is at once bewildered and amazed at the changes in him. He is fascinated by every aspect of the world, and the viewer goes willingly on the journey with him. I have probably seen this movie ten times since its release in 1996. I will always regard this film as my favorite John Travolta movie and my favorite Kyra Sedgwick movie.  "},{"Title":"Feel good factor in a box!","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Phenomenon is a brilliant movie. Although it has a sad ending, this really is the feel good factor in a box. John Travolta, Kyra Sedgwick, Forrest Whitaker and Robert Duvall exceed themselves in in their roles and gel together very well. I highly recommend this movie to anyone. Do not be deceived by the title or the case however, this is not another sci-fi beat 'em up movie. It is a romantic drama with a cast and soundtrack that comes together to make a very enjoyable 2 hours of viewing. It contains a unique formula that will make you laugh and cry. Very enjoyable indeed. "},{"Title":"Shot in the dark","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Well I approached this movie with trepidation thinking this was going to be some pseudo babble about higher powers and higher beings. Instead I was pleasantly surprised without being blown away. Basically this is the story of George Malley (Travaolta) a small town mechanic who though an unexplainable phenomenon becomes able to function of a higher level, gaining the ability to process information like no other human being. This plays out affecting all his relationships and drawing attention from the wider world. There is lots to like here and Travolta is earnest enough, and maybe this is just me but I really struggle to accept him as a small town mechanic he is just not every day enough for me to carry of these sort of roles. But on the plus point he is supported by the ever wonderful Robert Duvall and Forrest Whittaker and his best friends. This has a good message at its core without being spectacular at anything. Would I watch it again. On a rainy day yes and preferably with my wife. "},{"Title":"Highly, highly recommended love & life story with a twist","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I simply LOVE this movie. A celebration of life to be enjoyed & inspired by. I feel sorry for those who don't get it but that is their (huge) loss. I can only imagine the joy it must have brought to the director, screenwriter & musicians (wonderful soundtrack thanks Robbie Robertson) involved when they saw the final product. There are so many great lines, so many great scenes. I've seen the movie about 6 times now and always am moved by the amazing performances of Travolta, Kyra, Whittaker & Duval. You guys were perfect! Definitely among my favorite all-time films. Thank you so much to all the above for making this gem of a movie. "},{"Title":"Reflections on a Phenomenon","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I recently watched the movie Phenomenon again. For those who haven't seen it, John Travolta plays George Malley, the central character, a somewhat slow-witted nice guy who has a strange experience that awakens his consciousness and begins to hyperactivate his mind. In short, he becomes a phenomenon.The movie does a wonderful job of presenting George's struggle as he seeks to understand what is happening to him. His friends, however, are equally befuddled and the unanswered questions that arise from their own insecurities cause misunderstanding, pain and rejection. It's almost as scary to know a phenomenon as to be one.In my opinion it was a good story well told. Like all good stories, it unearthed regions of my own soul, areas I have mined before and will mine again because I believe their are still some precious stones to uncover there.It is a life theme to which I often return. Are we not each a phenomenon in our own way? What is the meaning of my life? What are my unique gifts? Where has my power come from from? And how much of it is unused, undeveloped, unactivated.We use so little of our strength, our psychic powers, our capabilities. We choose, instead, to live in a dark, dull, ill-lit corridor called 'life', a cramped hallway with narrow walls, yellowed, peeling wallpaper, moldy and stifling. Windowless and without wind. No unpredictable weather. And we wonder why it bores us, why we've lost our passion.John Updike made the observation that there are Four Life Forces Love, Habit, Time and Boredom. Love and Habit are powerful, giving short term energy and stability to our lives. Time has a more long term grinding influence. But Boredom, the great leveler, is a prison that captures us subtly. When boredom becomes a habit, life passes us by.In this film, George Malley sees the wonder of this passing phenomenon we call life. His becomes obsessed with embracing it... before it does indeed escape him.Nice supporting cast, especially Ms. Sedgewick and Forrest Whittaker. "},{"Title":"Brings tears to my eyes","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I am not a very emotional guy, but every time I watch this movie, something hits that emotional nerve and I get teary eyed.The plot is not very plausible, however, the actual issue (which is discovered later in the movie) is and because of that, the way the entire movie is laid out and comes together at the end is truly something special. It's worth it to sit down with your family and watch together, or just to watch it with a loved one. Don't be afraid to bring out a tissue, because it is very possible that the tears might just start flowing. Director Jon Turteltaub does a fantastic job showing what love can do and the tremendous effect it has on humans.Highly recommended. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Learning...","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is movie with an imense emotional load. It's  a lesson to all of us who think on quiting something... The character whose interpreted by John Travolta (beautifully played, in my honest opinion) acts as a teacher to all of us, and the subject teached is LIFE... The character shows the imensity of things we can do with our life, and shows also what friends are all about...In my honest opinion a must see of the drama category! Utterly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of phew movies that makes me cry.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The acting by John and Kyra is excellent. Their love for each other is very convincing and is why this movie speaks to me so well. I love the mood the film brings. The music and the direction makes me calm. This movie truly is an experience. "}{"Title":"..a simply moving tale..","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Phenomenon is a tale for everyone.Restricting work-schedule; not watching TV; not going to theaters - all of these left me unaware that John Travolta (George Malley) was still making movies. I guess I just wasn't ready to accept that pretty-boy Travolta just didn't have the talent to make anything but the same genre of film that made him a star. Was I wrong ! This movie has definitely made me a BIG Travolta fan. I enjoyed Blow Out, but didn't realize it was one of a chain of movies that Travolta was making. Now that I am aware of his range of acting-abilities - everything I've seen, so far, is so easily projected - I'll be on the look-out for all of his films.Many other users have detailed the story this movie tells - thank heavens it has one ! George was simply George - when incidents happen to us that change our personna, other people also change the way they think of us. I'd feel the same way if one of my buddies started acting differently, and showed much more intelligence than I knew he possessed. Kyra Sedgewick (Lace Pennamin) was unknown to me, so I had no way to judge her performance, but certainly enjoyed it. Again, simplicity, not a lot of unneeded drama. Forest Whitaker (Nate Pope) was stellar in his portrayal of the few friends who could tell something unusual was happening to his buddy, as was Robert Duvall's (Doc) portrayal. The entire cast was great - but, Travolta's simple deliverence of undramatic lines (and his brilliant smile and open face) make this movie the great entertainment, and uplifting message, it is.Director Turtletaub got it all together to put scriptor Gerald DiPego's story on the screen. It is apparent that all who played in the movie enjoyed their work - all of us should have no reason not enjoy their efforts. As many users urge, this is a film for the entire family and certainly would make for a romantic evening with a loved-one.Desereves more than a 10........ "},{"Title":"This movie is special","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I normally don't get choked up during a movie, but I happened to see this movie after my father had passed, so it affected me. This movie is about a lot of things about the extraordinary happening to the ordinary (George Malley's event and his newfound powers), unconditional love (the love of Lace), friendship (George with Doc & Nate), and tolerance (the ignorance and fear of the townspeople and the Feds). As George said in the movie, It's all about possibilities---and in this movie it's about romance, potential and the dance of life amongst all things. John Travolta (as George) delivers a disarmingly charming performance, and Robert Duvall (as Doc) displays a warmth and affection for his friend George. Forrest Whitaker (as Nate) is masterfully understated as the faithful friend who is the recipient of George's manipulation (the translation scene) and Kyra Sedgewick (as Lace) is the love of George's life. The inquisition scene with Brent Spiner was funny without being trite or serious---you feel George's frustration as he is treated like a lab rat. Every time I see this movie, I see new layers I haven't noticed before. Director Jon Turtletaub did a terrific job with this cast without being preachy. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Possibly The Best Performance of Travolta's Career","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I say, possibly, because I will most likely always hold Staying Alive as the best Travolta work in the darkest part of my Baby Boomer heart, until the man dies. But were it not for my relentless love of Disco and that era, Phenomenon would undoubtedly take that spot.John Travolta, Kyra Sedgwick. An amiable, small town Joe is inexplicably transformed into a genius with telekinetic powers after seeing a bright light.The simplicity of the synopsis would belie the complexity of this sociological examination of the fight or flight instinct coupled with the dynamics of the mob mentality. People fear what they cannot understand, and they hate what they fear. This work is an expose of that phenomenon.But aside from all that, this is highly enjoyable, as you walk along with Travolta's character through the progression of his new-found talents. His performance here is beautiful. He fully embraces this character like he seldom has any other. He typically does well, but this was a total integration, which was wonderful to watch.All in all, I found this film enlightened, even when the supporting characters were not.It rates an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Reality of a different dimension","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I have watched this movie several times. Each time I realize, even more, just how close each of us might come to a similar experience. I read the remark, not reality, but I am telling you it is as real as it might get. The stroke like experience was a lightning strike into the psyche of the brain waking all of it's possibilities. We as onlookers see only a part of what the possibilities a similar experience, for ourselves, might be. Standing back, I saw another experience, those we think we know relying on their fears to disallow them to be supportive but instead primitive in their reactions. The story covers different layers of trust for all involved. I could feel the pain and the hurt and the fear.The actors all of the actors fit their roles well. Travolta was wonderful as were supporting actors Kyra Sedgwick and Robert Duvall. I wouldn't change any from the part they played. The setting was perfect, the story wonderful, the acting all well done. Phenomenon is a movie I will watch again, each time knowing I will feel the same respect and emotion for it as the story closes. It is well worth watching and I grade it highly as I feel it is well deserved. "},{"Title":"Unexpected yet unassuming - A good movie","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The movie is set in a town with the kind of people you expect to see in such a setting. George Malley is one of them. But on the night of his birthday, something unexpected happens which completely alters his life. A bright light in the sky - that is what he sees that night. From the next day onwards, everything seems different. Or rather clearer one might say. Scientifically, its all about more clarity. But to a common man, it seems much more. The movie then is about how George changes and how the folks around him react to it.The earliest signs observed are checkmating the doc in a game of chess(whom he has never beaten before), unable to sleep in the night and growing restlessness with the amount of time available. With seemingly more clarity, his mind starts taking the scientific bend to things. He is able to crack intelligent militant codes, generate power out of organic material and in one such scenario, predict an earthquake by sensing the vibrations. This leads to getting acquainted with Prof. John Ringold who witnesses many more marvels by George including learning Portuguese in 20 min(not all though). However, many impedances present themselves to George from FBI intending to stop him perceiving him as a compromise to national security to reactions from common people who barely understand him.However, there are three people who stand by him during all this. The good old doc, a faithful friend and then the Lady Love. The romance is of waiting painful kind(and by that I mean not one of those easy romances) and there is one especially good scene. Overall, it is well shown.In the end, science takes over with the phenomenon being explained in pure rational terms and an end coming to all of it but not before George passing his semi-completed works to the world.The movie plot is a great idea - and execution even better. The situations - A common man experiencing a miracle, clarity of mind being so easy for the one having it and yet so difficult for others to grasp, becoming unacceptable as one changes, finding true love and dying in peace - all these are explored and shown beautifully.Finally John Travolta as George Malley is wonderful. The journey he undergoes is expressed wonderfully and is well supported by other characters. All in all, a very good film to watch. "},{"Title":"Possibilities are endless","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I'm usually drawn to movies that either have a wonderful story line, great acting or something that leave a message and keep us thinking. Phenomenon probably falls in the 2nd and the 3rd category. Combined with gifted acting skills of John Travolta, the story makes an impact and lets us imagine how endless the possibilities could be. Living day in and out and living through the chores of life, we, more often than not, think that this is all we can do as humans; but only if we believe in ourselves, and trust the strength and determination of the human spirit, can we gauge the list of endless possibilities that we are capable of. This movie precisely tries to show us that, to be open and to be respectful, through the humble life of George. His dialog towards the end of the movie with the doctor is priceless - that talks the value of human life, our expressing power, and our hope to a better future. I'm a science student and the more I discover things, answer the whys, i realize we just know the tip of the iceberg. In front of us lies the vast ocean of mystery, for us to discover someday. I highly recommend this movie to audiences who are inspired by the strength of human potential and believe that we can do much more than we think. It's all about will power and confidence. "},{"Title":"phenomenal!!!!","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I just saw the movie for the first time and I was impressed. I think this movie was excellent. But it was too short. If you have not seen the movie yet, do not read this description!!! I believe this movie was about eight out of ten. I thought this movie was very well written and the acting was excellent as well. The ending could have been more upbeat, But overall very, very good.I thought is was too short it could have been longer, but that is because it was so good.I don't want to give away the ending but it would have been nice to have him use his mental powers to somehow reverse the ultimate conclusion.They could have done a little more with the telekinesis angle. "},{"Title":"Chair-ific!","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" George is a happy auto mechanic who has a crush on Lace so he invites her to his birthday party but she doesn't was to go. That's fine and George goes with his friends and after wards, he goes outside and sees a light that knocks him on his butt. When he tells people he saw a light, they think he saw aliens or was drunk. So later George starts reading tons and tons of books and becoming really smart. He also develops some weird super powers as well. The truth isn't aliens, super powers or drunkenness.I love the fact that after he sees the light, he appreciates life more and pays more attentions to little things like flowers on the side of the road. He really learns a lot of things and stops taking things for granted.My favorite part was when she asked him if he learned the language in 20 minutes and he says Not all of it! "},{"Title":"'Ya Gotta love a philosophical love story..!!","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Love and philosophy. What a great combination, and it works so well in this tear jerking inspirational love story. My favorite quote from this movie has to be when George is trying to explain death to a couple of kids...everything is on it's way to somewhere. Well said Mr. Malley!! Kyra and John give us some of their best performances in this one. The only reason I'm not giving this full marks is because of the sheer stupidity of the townsfolk. The scene at the fair where George tries to explain himself is a bit too much. I'm being a little picky here for sure but it takes a lot for me to give a movie a 10 rating. Don't miss one of the most best shaving scenes in recent memory. Keep this one on your shelf of DVD's and see it with your significant other. It's a keeper for sure. "},{"Title":"Completely underrated movie with a powerful message","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a movie about possibilities, and abilities that go beyond the physical - caring, sharing, being interested in, and a part of, all that's around you.It really shows the main character as understanding that he's part of a larger whole, as if he can feel the breath of the world, of the universe. His mind is opened up, his powers are opened up, but basically, his heart was always open. Perhaps this is why this movie is so powerful - it shows us what is possible, even without amazing powers - if only our hearts are open.Not just a chick-flick... guys will enjoy it too, and there are some very sexy scenes. (Unoffensive to kids, though.)This is a creative, clever movie, with an important message, and a great soundtrack! (I bought the CD, and I never buy movie CDs!)I'm sorry more people didn't see it. In some ways, it is a lot like Pay It Forward.Plus, we see the actors in characterizations that they never get to play. Very refreshing! Ahhhh go see it! You'll appreciate the trees. "}{"Title":"An amazing movie that will affect you for the rest of the day.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  An amazing movie, truly amazing. I don't use to comment about movies, but I MUST recommend this one. The plot just takes your heart with it, and penetrates into your soul. The characters, all of them and especially the main ones, are played in a fabulous way, you feel so identified with them, with the story... it's very special and touching.I watched the movie twice, day after day, and even though I already knew what's going to happen, the ending just made me cry again! This is a movie you'll remember, it's not just a romantic drama, it is much much more, you'll just be attached to the screed during it. In 3 words - A REAL PHENOMENON. "},{"Title":"Must-See Film, Last part is best","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'd recommend it as a Must-See Film, of which I particularly liked the last part of the film, where you can actually feel the emotions inside it. Travolta does an excellent job and I wonder if anyone could do it better. "},{"Title":"A very underrated movie","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Although the story of the movie was OK it was the main characters is what made the movie worth. This was another movie showing that when someone is different and cant be explained for how they are some people tend not to be very kind to that person. Even though the movie is kind of science fiction it seems more of a plausible story that could actually happen. After what could be explained as a phenomenon experienced by a small town mechanic, suddenly has peculiar powers that end up making his life worse then better. People in the town start to make fun of him and treat him bad, but when something bad happens they come to him to help and he does. With his new found powers he starts to solve his every day problems and of others around him. He starts to devour books increasing his knowledge and starts to turn him into almost a circus side show, also ends up cracking some government codes and ends up being arrested and held in a secret location and thinking he is some kind of spy. The romance that develops between Travolta and Sedgewick and the chemistry they seem to have makes this another must see movie. This should be a must see movie for anyone who enjoys movies. "},{"Title":"Is somebody trying to tell me something?","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" They say that the average person only uses about five percent of their available brain power. This film examines what might happen if one were to unleash the remaining ninety five percent. Actually, that could be a very scary thought, as we see what happens to George Malley (John Travolta) when he begins to develop a super-human learning ability and the power of telekinesis. So there's also the fear of the unknown thrown into the mix, as George's friends and neighbors are at first amazed and then wary of George's ability, as if he might possibly turn his powers against them.I generally don't remark on a film's IMDb rating, but this one is bafflingly low at 6.3 as I write this. Travolta and the supporting cast are quite competent in their roles, with Kyra Sedgwick valiantly walking that fine line of guarding against another hurtful relationship balanced against finding that special someone who she can open her heart to once again. For once a film capably tells it's story without resorting to the principals hitting the sack in an obligatory love scene.What I also liked about the film was the way George's true friends stuck by him through thick and thin. Nate (Forest Whitaker) and Doc (Robert Duvall) never wavered in their loyalty even if it meant going against some of the locals who were willing to throw George under the bus. All in all, this was a heartwarming film that tells it's story with a bit of whimsy on it's way to a life affirming message about achieving one's full potential. "},{"Title":"The Science of Love, Care and Friendship.","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure how to classify this movie or whether I even should. Is it a scifi, romantic or a beautiful drama? Whatever be the genre, Phenomenon was touching & soulful.The lights that John Travolta's character experiences one night is open to interpretation and I prefer it that way. The mystery makes the movie all the more engaging & impressive to me.John Travolta(as George Malley) has given a heartfelt performance, many say, the best of his career. He was at ease in his role, being vulnerable, funny, intelligent, frustrated or even in love. The other actors who touch our hearts too are Robert Duvall(as Dr. Brunder), Forest Whitaker(as George's pal) and even the pretty Kyra Sedgwick(as John's crush, Lace) impresses.What I especially like about the movie is how the story still focuses more on the relationship between the character George and the others in the community after his life-changing experience one night that suddenly turns him into a gifted intellect. Otherwise, Phenomenon could have been just like any other superhero flick about Travolta saving the world with his bare hands or brain! The ending(final scene between George & Lace), I wish, could have been more effective. It came to an end a bit abruptly to me.Verdict Adorable & romantic. What starts off like a scifi ends being a tale of genuine friendship, care and love. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal!","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A very important movie. It attempts to express the power we all have within us. It also shows how often people chose not to use it. It's an excellent script, very well executed. John Travolta was an excellent choice for the part, as are the other cast members; everyone gives their best. I could say more, but I'd rather not spoil it for anyone who hasn't yet seen it. It speaks to the heart and the spirit inside us. See it. Listen to it. Think about it. Then see it again and think about it some more. Perhaps you can find something in it that speaks to you. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of the most heart warming movies I've seen","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie had a profound effect on me in several ways. First it forces you to look at those in your life whom you truly love. It makes you think about and appreciate your every day life with them because this movie makes you realize you could lose them at any time. The loss of George was just so very real and hit home on a personal level and made me realize how much I truly love my wife. The relationship with Kyra Sedgewick and scene where she cuts his hair and shaves him is one of the most romantic I believe I've ever seen in any movie. That's high praise from me, because normally I am not a Travolta fan. He's played so many evil characters that you begin to think of him as one. But what a fantastic job he did in this movie. In my mind his performance in this film made him a top actor. "},{"Title":"Celebrates the beauty and wonder of life","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie has something we can all relate to - relationships... in our community, to our neighbors, our friends, our loves.This movie has a comfortable feel to it - like an old pair of jeans. There is the small town setting where everyone knows everyone. They did a great job casting and you truly believe these people have known each other their whole lives.There are some memorable scenes here - one of my favorites being when she cuts his hair and shaves his face in his kitchen. Its a very romantic and sensual scene without having to be explicit. They don't even kiss. Its just the nearness of each other and how tender she is with him. Very sweet moment. You can see her defenses start to melt and let herself feel something for him. It was filmed beautifully with nice close-ups.I also like the scene where he is working frantically in the garden and suddenly stops and starts listening to and watching the wind in the trees. Then he starts swaying in tune with the trees. I think this is one of Travolta's best performances as he helps us get to know and understand George Malley. His interpretation of the character is crystal clear and brilliantly done. He has an underlying sweetness and enthusiasm that works well for this character. I liked Sedgewick okay - but I think Travolta outshines her here. Duvall also does a great job as Doc.There are a lot of good messages here about living our life to the fullest and reaching our potential. I liked the analogy of buying her chairs and how to find out what your love is into. The film is about change, acceptance and love. And that people don't like the unexpected but would prefer to live the same predictable lives. I really enjoyed this film and think you will too.I think the story was well written and has you guessing at what has really happened to George - was it aliens, some physical phenomenon, or a medical condition. "},{"Title":"A rare movie of possibilities!  Sensitive. Entertaining.","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There are very few movies that are worth seeing more than once or worth rating above an 8. I have a handful of all-time favorites. This is one of them. The story is beautifully written, the plot nicely developed, and it's devoid of the trash in so many movies today, although there are a few expletives.An ordinary man, John Travolta akaGeorge Malley, is confronted with surprising and unexpected abilities after seeing a bright light descending from the night sky. But his gift is not without consequences. John Travolta and Kyra Sedgwick's character's provide the kind of romantic relationship that's refreshingly warm and sensitive in this paranormal adventure. The shaving scene alone was worth the price of admission.If you haven't seen it.....go see it. "},{"Title":"This film has the potential to change your life !","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this film for the first time on video back in 1998. Back in the 'good old days' when you could pick up a film at Blockbusters without knowing everything about it before you watched it. I think I selected it on the basis of it starring John Travolta and Robert Duvall - what appeared a slightly unlikely combination at that time.By the end of the film it had blown my mind - but not quite in the same way.Thirteen years on two things still remain seared on my mind.The piece of dialogue between George and Lace. George - Will you love me for the rest of my life ? Lace - No , George....... for the rest of mine . and the film ending and the credits running to the sound of Bryan Ferry singing 'Dance with Life' .I sobbed like a (37 year old) baby and when I awoke the next morning vowed to change the direction of my life for ever. So I did.Every year since my wife and I sit down and watch this film , celebrate it and, by so doing, say 'thank you for the bright light in the sky'.I cannot recommend this film enough. Go watch.PS - as a consequence, I forgive John Travolta anything and everything he has done since - luckily 'Look Who's Talking' I,II,III..... came before !! "}{"Title":"super film","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite if not my favorite Travolta films. Not many shows make me cry,but i dare you to watch this film without shedding a tear.It also has many great scenes that will make you feel amazed ,happy, sad ,it has it all Travolta and Sedgwick are great together,and who could forget Duvalls performance.It is one of those films you never get tired of watching.(timeless). although the ending is a real tear jerker, most films that end that way i rarely ever want to see again,but because of the whole chemistry of the film you cant help but say wow! I would put this film on my top 50 films of all time. A must see! for all viewers ,even us men.Jeff "},{"Title":"Such a Beautiful Story","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This was an awesome movie! John Travolta is my favourite actor and I have to say this was one of the first movies I saw of him and I just loved it!I cried so hard when I saw it though. It is such a touching and beautiful story but quite imaginative. It's quite funny in some parts and it's a movie that lots of people will enjoy once they see it. This is a must for any John fan. I loved it! I am certain if I watched it again I would cry again. Great Acting from the cast! John did a great job on this movie! ~Kathy "},{"Title":"Phenomenal","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Travolta is a man struggling to come to grips with his new found abilities. How did these new abilities come about? Well, we never actually find out, but that isn't the point of the movie. I think the way that the people around Travolta react to him through the course of the movie is formulaic Hollywood but that still doesn't detract from this movie due to Travolta's great performance. This a real shining star in Travolta's universe (This isn't the place to mention the dead ones..). Duvall is excellent as well, Kyra Segdewick seems a bit restrained at times and Forest Whitaker plays himself.This movie seems to be a lot of things to a lot of people. It has drama, tragedy, humour and even Sci-fi. Its a great way to spend a couple of hours and you may come away questioning a few things as well. "},{"Title":"Phenomenon","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Well acted film about an ordinary man (Travolta) who, after an accident, is given a most unique power. Travolta is winning as the ordinary Joe and he is given great support from Duvall, Sedgewick and a wonderful Forrest Whitaker.   "},{"Title":"Movie, something of a phenomenon","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" They should make more movies like this. Phenomenon is a film, we can be thankful for having, although it does test the feasibility of realism. Single and likable guy, George O'Malley (Travolta, who's very good) has a physical encounter with a dropping light/beam, after wandering home, from his birthday. From here, his life takes a strange turn, both positive and negative. He's a walking encyclopedia, he knows everything, and also develops telekinetic powers, where soon everyone, wants his knowledge on stuff. He desperately wants single Mum (Sedgwick) who has two adorable kids, to notice him, vying for attention. Things heat up, when his new found knowledge of stuff, lands him in some water with the government as cracking one of their codes. The actor I loved in this film though, was The Hitcher's Jeffrey De Munn, as a scientist, who's after the supposed UFO sighting (light beam that hit Travolta). The third act, I warn you, is quite a heartbreaking and emotion filled one, with Travolta learning of his quick dying fate. The acting here between him and Sedgwick is so good, especially Sedgwick. This is not the norm of thet characters, Travolta plays, It's a more softer role, and he does it well. Duvall must be commended too, really good as the town doctor, and close friend of Travolta's. And to top it off, we have Eric Clapton's hit song If I could change the word, and this very inspirational movie, illustrates that. Don't let this film go amiss. You're missing something special, if you do. "},{"Title":"This is one of the best John Travolta films","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed the movie just for the story. I didn't read in to it as an add for Scientology like some people did. It was an emotionally moving film from beginning to end and I could watch it over and over again. George Malley is a likable character right from the opening scene, and his pursuit of Lace Pennamin felt honest and sincere as we watch it grow. Yes there are some plot points that need work but over all the film was a great work.The ending is not what you expect and is one of the best parts of the film. Unfortunately I can't say much with out spoilers, even though the move is twenty years old now.The only John Tavolta film to surpass this would be A Civil Action. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Phenomenon (1996) Dir Jon Turteltaub / Cast John Travolta, Kyra Sedgwick, Robert Duvall, Forest Whitaker, Jeffrey DeMunn Intriguing film about those strange and unexplained wonders that only God can answer. Everyone gathers at the local bar to celebrate George Malley's birthday. As he starts home he sees a bright light in the sky that knocks him unconscious. When he awakens he soon realizes that strange things happened to him that he cannot explain. He can simplify problems, read several books in a short time, telekinesis, languages, and he predicts an earthquake. Fine concept grows repetitious and often depressing but it never explains the bright light. Interesting choice project for director Jon Turteltaub who previously made the cheerful romantic comedy While You Were Sleeping. As George John Travolta is first hindered by the unexplained light, then after everything he endures he is met with the news of a brain tumor. Kyra Sedgwick plays the love interest who manufactures chairs and will need to deal with her feelings towards George and his destiny. Robert Duvall steals scenes as his doctor, as does Forest Whitaker as his best friend despite formula moments. Jeffrey DeMunn plays a doctor out to do research on the condition of the title character. Theme regards abilities that we can not fully explain, which might explain the screenwriter more than the film itself. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"light tone keeps tension too low for too long and too many overly simplistic characters","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" George Malley (John Travolta) is the nice owner of the local auto repair shop. Everybody likes him and there's a party at the local bar for his birthday. He likes Lace Pennamin (Kyra Sedgwick) but she resists complicating her kids' lives. As he leaves the party, he is struck down by a bright light. He slowly finds his mind expanding and develops telekinetic abilities. Nobody really believes him at first. He is supported by friends Nate Pope (Forest Whitaker), Tito and Doc Brunder (Robert Duvall). He predicts an earthquake. Prof. John Ringold (Jeffrey DeMunn) is a seismologist who comes to investigate. The townfolks turn from bemusement to bewilderment to suspicion. Nate has been sending radio messages for George who deciphered a top secret code and the FBI arrests them.The insistence to keep a light upbeat tone keeps the inherit tension very low for the first half. I like the story but director Jon Turteltaub keeps it from being taken serious. I like the love story and the overall story. I don't find the light tone that compelling. This is basically a superhero origin story and I'm all for it. The locals are too idiotic and too simplistic. It's too easy. Also the FBI threatening the professor is a bit too easy. It's more in line with a simple comic book. I just wish it treated this imaginary world more seriously and with more subtlety. "},{"Title":"Connection of the Spirit","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" What a shame it took me this long to find such a nugget &#x96; a jewel of a film! From the opening scenes a birds nest in a broken headlight, a kitten in an old tire &#x96; the film was brilliantly constructed, photographed,&#x85; And the casting! Perfect&#x85; There was an immediate empathy, compassion, and connection with each and every character to whom we were introduced&#x85; The primal elements of humanity &#x96; doubt, fear, and distrust &#x96; were laid out, examined, and used beautifully&#x85; John Travolta's soliloquy, and final lines of PASSAGE, were heartfelt, believable, connected audience to the films messages. I am afraid I may have missed this masterly crafted film, because I believed others professional cynicism, doubt, journeymen disbelief as they plied their trade of professional cynics&#x85; We should all probably vote? 10 years later? On the quality of the films that are made &#x96; to avoid being trapped by the snide cynicism of the current Gnostics&#x85; Bravo! Bravo! To the craftsman of this timeless film. "},{"Title":"Fantastic acting performance by John Travolta","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I had never seen this movie and always thought it was disappointing. Well, i was horribly wrong! Great acting performance by John Travolta. He plays the character of George Malley with great depth. He really IS George Malley and you will see a completely different John Travolta. The environment and scenery in Pasadena California of the movie fits the story perfectly. Also Forest Whitaker plays his character very well. Robert Duval completes the story as the father figure. The story-line is really inspiring and shows you that love conquers all. The relation between George and Lace is beautiful and shows two people in love with each other despite all troubles of the everyday life. Enjoyed this movie and the story. I really think this one of his (John Travolta) best movies. "}{"Title":"Ad Astra Per Astrocytoma.","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Many people seem to feel this is a movie about John Travolta's philosophical belief system, Scientology or Dianetics or whatever it is, but, if so, it all got past me because I don't know what either of them is.To me, it seemed like a contrived, commercially oriented, and successful feel-good story about an ordinary auto mechanic in a small California town who sees a flash of light one night, turns into a paranormal wizard, and then dies happy in the arms of the true love he's been courting but who has been keeping him at arms' length.I kept trying to identify its sources, aside from The Twilight Zone, which we can take for granted -- especially the episode called Mr. Dingle, The Strong. Let's see. The general idea is lifted from Field of Dreams, only this is episodic instead of linear and lacks the happy climactic bonding of son and deceased father. I mean, each of the protagonists has a weird experience alone in a farming community, after which he becomes obsessed and hypomanic, and the local Sons of the Soil regard him as nuts. Then, in the odd ball villagers, there is a touch of Northern Exposure and Rocket Gibraltar, the film to which the television series owes a good deal. The structure runs parallel to Charlie. I think maybe the jumbo but pathetic monster of Frankenstein may be stretching things too far.Travolta is convincing enough as the cheerful, modest, perceptive brain tumor victim. I liked Kyra Sedgewick because she fits the role of the single mother with two children who wants to keep her life uncomplicated out here in the wilderness of buff hills and bunch grass. Forest Whitaker is fine as the recluse -- the only black guy in town as far as we can tell -- who seems to be Travolta's sole friend in this village. Robert Duvall's part is relatively small but he lends it more energy than he has in any of his other recent films.The FBI, academia, and famous brain surgeons provide the villains. The most famous brain surgeon in the world is Richard Kiley who tries to persuade Travolta to let him operate on his brain while it's still working, though it may not even prolong his life, let alone save it. Travolta could open new doors. Travolta replies to this importuning with You don't get it, do you? You have one hand on technology and one hand on science and you have nothing left for the human spirit. I'm on the side of Richard Kiley. Let them go ahead and peel open my head. The worst (or the best) that could happen is that you expire painlessly while in deep anesthesia. The alternative, which Travolta chooses, is to die at Kyra Sedgewick's farmhouse with its vista of live oaks under blazing blue skies. Yet, death from an astrocytoma is a horrible death. You don't die peacefully. You vomit, act irrationally, lose your wits, wind up immobilized, and suffer excruciating pain. The ending is a fantasy.It struck me as a tale aimed at the heart rather than the head, as Woody Allen once put it. There are pop songs about love and self actualization played over long scenes of smooching and driving around in a beat-up old pick up truck. It was all a bit much. "},{"Title":"One of John Travolta's best.","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I'll tell you right now I don't like tear jerkers. I can count on the fingers of one hand the amount of tear jerkers I have watched and liked. However one of those fingers belongs to this film. The story itself was interesting and a good idea, but the reason I liked this film so much was John Travolta's amazing performance as George. He was riveting, emotional, and funny. An wonderful job on his part. Especially near the end of the film when the symptoms of his condition start to take effect. Also when he first gets his powers, he is so excited to be learning so many new things and so happy to get all this knowledge. It's a great performance and I think one of Mr. Travolta's best. The love George has for Lace is also acted out wonderfully. From the beginning of the picture, your sympathies are with George and they remain with him though the whole film. The scene between John and Brent Spiner is hilarious! As a Star Trek fan it was fun to see Data in another role even if it was so short. I'll wrap up by saying, even if you don't like tear jerkers, I think you should watch this film just to see the example of truly great acting shown in it. I give it 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Sterling role for John Travolta","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It was right about at this time in John Travolta's career that he won the battle...the battle of convincing me that he was an actor of note. I grew up with Travolta on Welcome Back Kotter, and I was not impressed. A number of movies went by, and I saw a few...and became cautiously optimistic that maybe he was at least an okay actor. But with a few films right around 1996, including this one, he won me over. No, he's no Laurence Olivier, but he's a very pleasant and often very interesting actor. This may be his best role, although you don't realize it until well into the movie when he begins to have a sort of breakdown, and you see the transformation of the character he plays.The story is a good one...a man she some flashes of light in the sky and suddenly becomes brilliant, learns things remarkably fast, develops complex and original ideas, etc. Of course, the government gets involved, and eventually -- when they realize he will soon die -- they want to do open brain surgery to learn as much as they can. Will they succeed? Meanwhile, throughout the film he is trying to win the heart of Kyra Sedgwick...who's a hold out of sorts...the rest of the town loves him...until his weirdness begins to freak them out.Personally, I'm not a fan of Kyra Sedgwick, and I wouldn't have cast her in this role...although she does okay. Similarly, I wouldn't have chosen Forest Whitaker as the role of best friend. Robert Duvall is another actor I never cared for...but, it has been re-looking at roles like this that have led to me reconsidering the quality of his acting, and I have to admit I was wrong...he was and is a terrific actor, and demonstrates that again here. It was nice to see Richard Kiley as the brain specialist here, not that his character is one you are apt to like. Bruce Young seemed an odd choice as an FBI agent.The film doesn't have a happy ending, but it's just about the only ending that it could have. Highly recommended, at least once. "},{"Title":"Country grammar","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie was in my cable last week and for some reason, I never heard about it. Phenomenon isn't a known movie in Brazil, but that didn't stop me watching it. In the first minutes, John Travolta's character gains a strange power that makes him extremely intelligent. For obvious reasons, people start threatening him, living up to the famous phrase the nail that sticks out gets hammered. Cast has common performances, with highlight to the bar fighting scenes. Even thought the plot doesn't get deeply into a romance or anything, we have beautiful messages and thoughts about life in general; George Malley is a great character and sometimes I could identify myself with him. The ending is beautiful and not that clich. Worth it. "},{"Title":"The untapped power of the mind and spirit","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" John Travolta's Phenomenon from 1996 is similar to Powder, which came out some eight months earlier. Both films are about a gifted individual with unusual powers and the reactions of those around him. Phenomenon differs from Powder in that it's about a regular guy (Travolta) who suddenly gains amazing abilities, rather than an outcast who already has them.The other characters include a woman whom he wants to date (Kyra Sedgwick), his best friend (Forest Whitaker), his doctor (Robert Duvall), a marveling professor and miscellaneous townsfolk & government agents. The story takes place in a small town in Northern California (shot in Auburn, CA).This is an interesting What if? story. What would happen if an average Joe suddenly attained genius and telekinesis? The film explores the untapped power of the mind and spirit. What great things would we be able to do if we were able to tap into this vast reservoir of potential! The ordinary person might likely respond with skepticism, but the story is based on numerous real-life examples, albeit perhaps not as pronounced as Travolta's character.I've had my own run-ins with such things. For instance, about five years ago I was in bed having an intense dream when my wife burst into the room to wake me up. The smoke alarm outside the door was blaring like crazy, but there was no smoke or fire (or heat). The intense energy evoked by my dream obviously set it off because, as soon as I woke, it suddenly stopped. If there was any doubt, the same thing happened the next week. What can explain this except the untapped power of the mind and focused energy? Another example comes to mind, albeit different when I was around 8 years old my family and I were walking the trails of Theodore Wirth Park in Minneapolis when we came to the edge of a baseball field. As soon as we entered the outfield somehow I just knew that the current batter was going to hit the ball and it was going to hit me right in the face. I knew this but I didn't know how I knew it. I just knew. Next thing you know the batter hits the ball high into the air -- it was like slow motion -- and it came and hit me right on the cheek! (Good thing it was a softball, huh?). How did I KNOW this was going to happen? I don't know, but it's pretty amazing and it shows the power of the mind and spirit to warn us, which some call intuition.It goes without saying that Phenomenon is worthwhile just for effectively exploring such amazing things and provoking thought.Travolta's character is somewhat of a type of Christ in the story, which makes the ending a bit unsatisfying. I don't want to say too much (no spoilers), but the question arises If he possesses the genius and power to do all that he does in the film, why couldn't he use these powers to deal with a certain situation at the end? To me, the writers and filmmakers took the easy way out by giving us a realistic ending. In short, they played it safe.Still, this is a good movie if you like dramas and the subject matter piques your interest.The film runs 123 minutes.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Inside is insightful","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Though the type of the movie is 'Fantasy', drama, romance; the story tries to convince us to believe the phenomenon character as real, and I think the argument that the movie shows at the end is well convincing. The insight and moral value of this movie is very strong. It shows what is the difference between normal people and a phenomenon about observing and thinking. Some moments might seem boring to those who mostly watch fast movies. Again, this movie is not for all. Only, for those who want to watch an insightful movie. There are many things to learn for those who want to learn from movies. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Writers' Cowardice","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a film that, while entertaining, had great potential that the scriptwriters flushed down the toilet at the end.The story is simple a regular guy gets affected by something that results in his intelligence increasing, his gaining superhuman abilities, and the like. At first, he realizes what he can do, but he doesn't lust for power, or any of those clichd things. As his power and ability increase, he remains a nice guy. He tries to help people, despite that some resent him, even to the point of speed-learning a foreign language in minutes. He even develops a gentle romantic interest. And then ...Major Spoiler He finds out that the source of his advancement is actually the result of a cerebral malignancy, so he ends up dying. This is where I get so angry with the lack of imagination of Hollywood scriptwriters that figurative steam comes out of my ears. These unimaginative hacks are so uninspired that they don't know what to do with a sympathetic superhuman not in a comic-book superhero film. When one doesn't know what to do with such a character, the coward's way out is to kill him off. It was done in the film, Powder, too (though that film was not as cohesive as this one). With George's powers, if he concentrated on it, he had the potential to cure himself. But killing off is such a lazy solution that a child could have come up with it (and for all I know, one did). The film could have had a more intellectually honest ending, but the writers failed the test. A pity. "},{"Title":"Fun, Unique And Filled With Good Acting","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" On the night of George Malley's birthday, he steps outside for a moment from the bar he is celebrating with friends at and sees a flash of light. The light causes him to fall backwards. He thinks it is strange, but when he tells everyone else they think it's nothing. Over the course of the next few days, car mechanic Geroge Malley becomes increasingly intelligent and can even move things just by thinking about them. He can speed read and thinks of great plans that would be of use in his community. However, word gets out about this strange phenomenon and he is known as 'freak' by some, 'liar' by others. George also tries to get with Lace Pennamin, a pretty women who always seems to ignore him because of the heartbreak she dealt with when she was with her husband who left her. Lace has two children who immediately adore George. This movie is unique and highly entertaining and you may enjoy it, whether you like romance, dramas or even a bit of sci-fi. This movie is fun and has a bittersweet ending. I liked this one and I especially liked the acting of John Travolta, Kyra Sedgwick and Forest Whitaker. I would view it again, 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"sad & excellent","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Not knowing anything about the film, I expected something in the Look, who's talking genre. So I was completely taken by surprise with the story & character development, twist from supernatural to biological explanation and, above all, the finish, sad ending. But this ending makes the film stand way out of thousand other happy-ending films.Congratulations to the makers of the film. "},{"Title":"Nice movie about friendship","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  John Travolta is mysteriously blessed with an extraordinary intelligence and telekenetic powers.  Travolta manages the likeable role flawlessly here and duval has a nice scene every now and then.  It's a very likeable movie about the sometimes all too shallow nature of friendship.  Although probably not touted as such, this movie might be very good for children with it's excellent message.  I thought this movie could easily turn into sappy melodrama but fortunately it isn't over the top, and really it's only purpose is to entertain you for 2 hours and then allow you to return to your life. *** out of **** "}{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion there isn't much else to say about this movie, other than GREAT!!! The actors all make a good performance, especially Travolta and Duvall, but then again, that's what you can expect. If you haven't already seen this movie, I strongly recommend you do it, because this movie gives you a ride through every emotion you know. I give 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies you'll ever find.","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Oh man...John Travolta really did deserve an Oscar for this one. He was terrific. Truly outstanding. Ever since Pulp Fiction, he's been on a roll, and keeps getting better and better. Fantastic performances by Travolta and Robert Duvall in a supporting role. I dont really like sad endings but this one was done extremely well...truly touching. Phenomenon's soundtrack is worth listening to as well. Some of the songs are really good. All in all, if you havent seen this movie yet...you need help!! "},{"Title":"Mind over matter","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film reminds us all of just how powerful the mind is & how greatly it can effect our hearts as well. Lovely film with some truly brilliant performances!  "},{"Title":"A highly original, satisfying story","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Phenomenon succeeds on many levels, with excellent acting  and fine drama. But it succeeds mainly where many modern movies do not It is an excellent story.John Travolta is topnotch as the regular, likeable guy who receives some type of power he didn't ask for. His reactions to his new-found extra-sensory intelligence are believable, as, unfortunately, are those of some of his former friends, who fear the unknown.Travolta and Robert Duvall shine in this well-told tale. The resolution provides a totally unexpected twist, though it does drag slightly. My only other (minor) complaint is the relationship between Travolta's character and that played by Kyra Sedgewick. Her hesitance to get involved with such a nice guy , which turns into near hostility at times, is a bit hard to swallow.Still, Phenomenon is a winner. It's one of the best movies I've seen in a while.  "},{"Title":"I have an idea","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Here's a good idea for a movie--I'm going to hire an actor who is a has been from dance movies from the seventies and eighties, who is known to be one of the worst actors in the modern era. Pair him with an actress who is a two dimensional actress with no ability whatsoever. Then I will make a movie that has enough material to fill a short and find a way to stretch it over a full feature film. Oh, wait, Phenomenon already did that. There is nothing in this movie worth watching. Travolta's character has this sense about things, he and Sedwick talk a lot, then you wake up on your couch a few hours later and realize the movie is over. "},{"Title":"romantic fantasy-drama film that is neither romantic nor dramatic, with no fantasy.","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" An obvious propaganda for Travolta's own philosophy (Scientology), with poor acting and minimal character bonds. The emotional ties are unestablished in this movie, and the characters aren't all that likable. The plot takes quite some time to get on the role and when it finally starts it is lackluster at best. I was entirely uninterested, flipping through several games on my laptop as the movie ran. Relationships are preestablished, or entirely jumped into without any actual build up. The mother is a horrible mother at the very least... George is painful on screen. Overall, the only enjoyable part was a 30-second segment. I would not recommend this to anyone, and honestly don't understand how the first three pages of reviews are positive. When the character finally dies, it is like...so...?. I think there could've been potential with Man Gains Super Intelligence, but this idiotic small-town lovable dope wasn't the way about it. "},{"Title":"His Talents/Skills relate to a Brain Tumour as does the Light.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" To those that wonder how Geogre attained his esp powers the answer is given by Doc.O'Malley isn't hit by light or affected by aliens. He has a Brian Tumour called an Astrocytoma which spreads out tentacles that usually or actually always touch other areas of the brain shutting them down.It is a terminal condition and no one has ever had a result as shown in the movie but it is a great explanation when Doc tells him that the tentacles usually kill off brain cells but in his case they have touched on or enlightened them! The light came from inside his head but gave the impression of external origin as he would have 'seen' them. Brian Tumour patients commonly see light or smell things that aren't there. This is the brain we're talking about here people. "},{"Title":"A Touching and Beautiful movie","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't seen this movie yet, then please do! Also, beware of spoilers here in this review!First of all, I'm a big Frank Capra fan, so I'm sentimental. I love feel good movies more than anything. This movie feels like one of those old time movies Mr. Capra would have made.I don't need to give the plot since anyone can discover that. I would just like to mention some of my favorite scenes from the movie that make it a classic in my book! I own the DVD now!What I love most about this movie is the music! Thomas Newman is my favorite composer and he did a masterful job with this movie! I didn't know who he was when I heard this soundtrack and many others. It was a fluke not that long ago that I realized that he was the one who has done by far most of my favorite soundtracks! It was shocking to see how many he did! From Six Feet Under, to The Shawshank Redemption to many more! The best music of all is the first track at the beginning of the movie, which plays throughout the movie everytime John Travolta becomes mesmerized by the trees swaying in the wind. It's been over 7 years since I first saw this movie and I have never forgotten the powerful emotions that these images ignited within me. I still look at trees and nature differently thanks to this much underrated movie! It is one of the best scenes ever in history...in my opinion anyway.*Big SPoiler warning* Another one of my favorite all-time scenes is the scene in the hospital near the end of the movie when John learns his fate. Forest Whitaker, Sedgwick and DuVall have never been better. If you look closely at their performances in the background you will notice true, raw emotion! You can almost feel their pain as they share the tragic news to their friend. Duvall's speech about how he feel in love with George (John's charactor) after taking care of his broken his leg as a kid was wonderful. He ends it with For a man who never had any kids of his own, I feel like I'm losing a son!Then the topper comes when Kyra is alone with John in the hospital room. She tells him that she tried her best not to fall in love with him and he asks her How'd that turn out? and she replies with Terribly! Then he asks her Will you love me for the rest of my life? and she replies with one of the most memorable lines ever in movie history, No...I'm going to love you for the rest of mineAnother amazing and memorable scene comes after that when John shows Kyra how he feels most of the time when he gets lost in bliss while appreciating nature and the dancing trees in the wind. He tells her to imagine holding her newborn baby and rocking it gently when the baby didn't feel well. She closed her eyes and gently rocked the imaginary baby as that hauntingly beautiful song plays.The ending is sad, but so memorable. It's just like real life, really. We will all have sad endings, but what we do while alive and how we are remembered by our loved ones is what matters most. This movie is a blessing. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  if you are given something special that you can handle, that doesn't mean the people around you can handle it too. feel free to quote me.a great story, great feeling, great acting, wonderful performances by robert duvall, simply a wonderful movie. this one was stimulating both my deep thinking and my lachrymal gland. make sure you have a few hankies lying around before watching, but DO watch. one of my favourites. my ratings story 8.5/10, acting 7/10, drama 8/10, overall 8/10. WATCH IT !! "},{"Title":"It's not entertainment, it's medication, kind of cure for tired soul","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  First time I saw this movie - it didn't impress me at all - I was expecting kind of entertainment, so I didn't intend to think at all, and I said That's...nice movie, not more and that was all. But later one person had said something important and something changed for me in this movie. I'm about to say it here for you also. He said Just think, how he had used his skills. Listen to George Malley, try to think like him for a moment. Get focused on his intentions, his aims, his feelings, his point of view - then you will enjoy this movie, I'm sure.  "}{"Title":"phenomenal","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was a class A movie. Everyday-man John Travolta is struck by a mysterious light from the sky and suddenly gains extraordinary powers. He touches everyone's life. The story will touch yours too. I loved the drama and romance. A winner!*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Man sees stars, gets smart","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyable film with Travolta playing the part of a man with some very odd goings on in his life. This picture said a lot about human nature's down side as the townspeople and the always paranoid government begin mistrusting and harassing a man who has done absolutely nothing wrong. Fortunately, there was definite plus side to the movie; well worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"A mystery strikes a small town  mechanic and teaches life.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film falls in my top twenty list.  Though it could be considered a chick flick, it is much more then that.  George encounters a light phenomenon(UFO?) in the street and his life is changed.  He can no longer sleep, learns foreign languages in twenty minutes and discovers that he can move things with his thoughts.  His sudden wisdom and power makes him the outcast of the town and is even taken captive by the FBI after he causes the cancellation of a military exercise by breaking a military cypher.George eventually finds peace in the discovery that what he eventually loses is the most important thing and recognising that allows one to be so much more.  I feel this film should be classified as a tragic drama and is an inspiration of what the human intellect can do and fail to do.  Humanity at its best and its worst so to speak. I grade films well that are not predictable and this is one of the best but you must remember it will try to rip your heart out in the end. "},{"Title":"A Film that will touch your heart","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I am a regular action film movie buff and i simply loved this movie. The film is about a man who sees the light(in a sense) which causes him to gain a special gift whereby his actions as a result of this gift alienate him from his lifelong friends, but just may bring him closer to the one he loves.A story about alienation, despair and courage.John Travolta and Robert Duvall deliver stunning performances.Simply a moving,inspirational film that should be viewed.10/10+  "},{"Title":"This is a great movie.","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie for so many reasons. John Travolta's character is so likeable. The combination of humor, suspense and drama make it one of my favorite movies. There are so many funny lines in the movie. When Lace tells George she can only make Pork Chops and turkey. He asks, which is this?. When asked if he learned the Portugese language in 20 minutes, he says, not all of it. I've always liked John Travolta but this movie made him one of my favorite actors. "},{"Title":"Heavenly but down to earth","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I really, really like this film. As a spectator and as a critic. I think the screenplay is outstanding. The film is warm without being smarmy. It is enlightened in a future-think way without being pedantic, trendy, or self-conscious. It works as romance; it works as future-think; it works as slice-of-life. It's a People Movie existing within a metaphysical harmonic envelope.What has happened to the lead character? It seems so obvious there has been some sort of extra-terrestrial intervention. Wham! The transition from extra-terrestrial to biological caught me completely off-guard. But the transition made so much sense, and expanded the meaning so well, that I cheered the screenwriter.Bravo!Mike "},{"Title":"Story that heals your soul.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Im not very romantic kind of person. My favorite movie is The Rock and I also love John Woos movies, but this one made me cry !!. John Travolta and Robert Duvall gave ABSOLUTELY great performances. It's sometimes described as a romantic comedy.... I don't think that's true.....Id describe it as drama. It shows us, what our friends would do, if we were different. The last part of the movie, is SOOOOO sad. Soundtrack is also very good. I DO recommend Phenomenon.  "},{"Title":"Amazing Film, Lovely","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great film with John Travolta at his best, it warms your hearts and makes you feel multiple emotions. Everyone who say its bad are not aloud feedom of speech. See this film if you can its great! 5 stars ***** Thanks Phenomenon "},{"Title":"Subtle Scientology Propaganda","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is the best Scientology feature film I have seen. Much better than Battlefield Earth (Travolta and Whitaker again, hmm). Not as funny as Tom Cruise addressing his fellow Church Of Scientology initiates.It's subtle but evident if you know the messages the CoS wants to put out there. George is what the CoS would call a clear, right down to the telekinesis. A couple of his speeches include lines that echo CoS language. (to Doc) Lately I've been seeing things so clearly, you know? (to the evil doctor) What I'm talking about is the human spirit. That's the challenge. That's the voyage. L Ron Hubbard loved to go on about the human spirit and freeing it, through his program of large donations.There's the extraterrestrial factor, although this script leaves it to the viewer to decide whether aliens are the real explanation for George's powers. There's the demonization of psychiatric medicine and the US government. There's the one-dimensional goodness of the hero characters, nice and simple like in L Ron's pulp stories.I'm happy the CoS can't get away with stuff like this as much now, due to greater public awareness of their efforts. I wonder if it's true that they use Travolta's closeted homosexuality to compel him to do their projects. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Watched again and cried again. Been years since I last saw it but tonight was able to show it for the first time to my ten year old daughter. The message in this film was palpable. We are much more than we are showing so far as a human race. And human connection transcends most almost anything else in this physical dimension. Up there with Shawshank. Travolta and cast were excellent. I can't believe only a 6.4. Some say it was too much information in the ending. As if it could have been told any other way. Some are hung up on the telekinesis as if it were a castigation on humanity. What it displayed to me the untapped and unknown potential. If you have a problem with it then think of it metaphorically at least, the great potential. Spoiler alert...Just rang true with the humanity from the buying of the chairs to the bar scene at the end of the film. "}{"Title":"Comments about Phenomenon","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" 1996 was one of those years for both my husband and myself. Just after being in a movie, in our small town, my husband also landed a walk on part in this film. We got all of his clothes together and left very early in the morning to go to Auburn, which is 1/2 hour away. Gene did real well and got to sit next to Robert Duvall. He met some very nice folks during the day and evening hours. He was impressed with the positive attitudes of all of the cast and film makers. I was able to be a mouse in the corner, and watch all that was going behind the scenes. (Gene earned more dollars than I did.) We left late and arrived home at 230 a.m. after a very long day and evening. When we went to see this movie it was really great and I was so happy Gene got to be in this film. It was an adventure for him too. We have scene the movie 3 times and every time we like it better than before. I liked Nat Pope who was real good too. So we both where able to be in the movies and have a wonderful time, meeting some real special people. "},{"Title":"Completely underrated film...","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I think a lot of people out there are missing the point of Phenomenon. It has nothing to do with aliens or super powers. I view it as a family drama with a few sci-fi elements thrown in to show how decent, hard-working people might react to them. I know that many of us (including myself) have fantasized about having some kind of special power super-intelligence, telekinesis. However, how would we feel if we knew or witnessed someone who could seemingly prove it possible. Some of us would be skeptical, even though we might want to believe it were true. Watching this movie, I think it's as close to a normal response as Hollywood can get. I especially love the scene where Brent Spiner (known mostly for his role as Data in Star Trek The Next Generation) is flabbergasted as he questions George (Travolta) for the government.For those of you who like romance, there's no shortage of that either. Kyra Sedgwick brings charm and compassion to Lace, George's love interest and benefactor. Robert Duvall and Forest Whitaker provide strong support as George's friends who stand by him no matter what happens.Rent it or buy it...you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Learning and living fast enough to seem magical.","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What if you could read several books a night, learn whatever you wanted to, apply your learning in useful projects right away, and grasp insights that illude all those around you?And if you could, what that be good?John Travolta plays a small town mechanic who mysteriously develops uncanny mental abilities one night and soon has the whole town mesmerized by the phenomena of his learning success. Along the way he develops a wonderful fondness for a furniture maker that evolves into a powerful love, saves a young boy from certain death, and matches one of his bachelor friends with a beautiful single mom.I won't give away the ending to this masterpiece--rent it or buy it and watch it once, twice, even more...it's that great.Doug Smith -------------------------------- http//www.dougsmithtraining.com --------------------------------- What have you learned today?  "},{"Title":"Excellent Romantic and Light Movie","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When I started seeing movie and was in the very first scene in which a rabbit is running in George's garden and the music which was playing in back i guessed that it'll be a classic one. As I progressed with the movie it just touched me in heart and the touch of such emotional and little details like in one scene Lace was waiting for George and the way she was looking at her dress as she was going somewhere important.I mean it was excellent piece of directorship. In the end it was a sad story in which George didn't last long to endure his love of life and Lace was left hiding her pains and love that she unavoidably started to had for George. "},{"Title":"inspirational","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film has incredible similarities to the life of Jesus. The disbelief and attitudes of his home town The deep and provocative discussions. The similarity of the Last Supper with John Travolta offering the apple to the children. The professor continuing Travolta's work. The paranoia of the state and their persecution of someone whose message was that we are all of the same thing and that NO-ONE is greater than the other.  "},{"Title":"One of the more squishy movies of recent memory","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Like the summary says, this movie is one of the more heart felt movies made recently, among others include the brilliant Pay It Forward and the sweet dramedy Almost Famous.  Travolta here plays a average guy who gets a sudden thing (I won't go into it since it's a spoiler), but it makes him smarter, I mean really smarter (all he would need is cannibalism and he'd be Dr. Lecter).  This is something though that doesn't go over that great with his friends.  Intriguing drama most of the way with Travolta being quite good, even if it's a tad over-melodramatic.  Supporting cast is pretty good. Eric Clapton provides the lead song.  A- "},{"Title":"A film that teaches us  the meaning of life, and more.","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm 15 years old and I watched it tonight on tv, and i loved it! It was so wonderful! John Travolta did a great job. He acted so well. I'd rather he not die in the end though, that part was sad. I don't believe in this sort of phenomenom of course, but i still loved the movie. I like the way it shows real kind of love in the movie between him and the the girl(i forgot her name). Most movies these days are just about crushes,and things that dont matter in life. I liked this movie because it shows what is real in humans not what society makes people think. I suggest this film to anyone, any age . thanks Steffany "},{"Title":"Idealistic movie about special powers","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  How many of us, if blessed suddenly with special powers, like being able to speak a foreign language like a native after reading a dictionary for 20 minutes, do not need sleep but spend our whole time reading whole libraries and remembering every word and detail, and being able to move objects by though alone, would turn suddenly into the world's most giving person. Granted that super-intelligence would probably enhance one's thought processes and thus cause us to banish most selfish thoughts, wouldn't such a person still be tempted once in a while to use those powers for his own gain? Not big gains, but just small ones, like moving the dinner trays and switching on stuff by thought? This movie has none of that, in fact, all Travolta does is going around saving the world!But the movie does redeem itself by at least having a story that is interesting enough for viewers to want to watch it to its conclusion. Travolta's acting is commendable, and the supporting cast do well enough to maintain interest in the movie. Aside from the fact that is unrealistic, it is a good movie to watch that brings a sense of wonder and intrigue about the world around us. Though the ending was sad, at least it was in agreement with the general mood of the movie, where one cannot always have what one wants. "},{"Title":"Better than you'd expect","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is certainly the type of story that has saccharine written all over it, but for the most part, director Jon Turtletaub and John Travolta avoid that trap to make a movie of decent sentiment.  There do seem to be a couple of tacked-on Scientology messages near the end, but for the most part, what makes the movie work is how simple yet detailed everything is.  Robert Duvall is effective, as usual, and Kyra Sedgewick has nice chemistry with Travolta.  Not the best thing he's ever done(though he's said he feels closer to this part than all the others), but better than you'd expect. "},{"Title":"ordinary in an extraordinary way","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  John Travolta gives a winning performance.  Kyra shows emotion how a single mother, once burned can be twice shy.  If phenomenon is anything else, its basically a love story drama.  Under-rated.  Very good soundtrack.  Well done. Will you love me for the rest of my life?... No, I'll love you for the rest of mine. "}{"Title":"More Than the Sum","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Phenomenon was so much better than the sum of its parts. The movie is almost 2 hours long, which takes you from fun to almost epic (the exact crossover point is hard to tell). The main character is John Travolta, whose acting is questionable. It was actually pretty good in this film, until the brain expedition part where he reverted back to talking through his teeth like in Broken Arrow. This made me almost cry. Robert Duvall is great as Robert Duvall, the best Robert Duvall he's played since he played Robert Duvall in Falling Down with Michael Douglas. Yes, I enjoy saying Robert Duvall. But anyway, the movie was really good. If you want to see a film about a man who sees a bright light and then becomes hyper-intelligent, this is the film you're looking for. The romance part is little confusing and almost distracting, but it could have been worse. I recommended this. "},{"Title":"'Phenomenon' is pretty phenominal","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  ****Starring John Travolta, Kyra Sedgwick, and Robert DuVall.A common man sees a bright light in the sky, and when he wakes up after seeing it (he was unconscious), he has all sorts of power.  Now, people want to know how the hell that happened and the government wants to use him for their own.Travolta gives an Academy-Award winning performance (he wasn't even nominated) and a wonderful story.  Practically everything was perfect.(Is it just me or was the seeing a bright light reminded you of Saul in the Bible story?) "},{"Title":"John Travolta is great","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The whole movie is perfect.  Good screenplay, good acting, and good everything.  John Travolta is the heart and soul of this and he sure knows how to act.  John Travolta plays a man who sees something in the sky and to anybody's belief, it is a phenomenon.  Now that this phenomenon happened to him, he has different types of powers like telekinesis.  All of the side characters are cool and know how to act very well.  I don't see how people can not like this movie.Overall this movie was awesome and I STRONGLY recommend this movie to anyone.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Now I can go out and appreciate the simple things in life","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A cross between Terms of Endearment and Charly. This is another one those movies where the audience is talked down to and told how to really live. John Travolta is amazingly able to stand out amongst the preachiness but the rest of the good cast is buried in life affirming syrup. The romance between Travolta and Kyra Sedgwick is the best part. It's slow but at least it doesn't really have a message behind it. When Travolta delivers the meaning of the story (and apparently for life itself) using an apple the movie takes on a unique glow of self-satisfaction. ** out of **** "},{"Title":"I don't know George","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It would be interesting to see this movie with Powder, another movie I recently reviewed. They are both about similar characters that are the victims of intolerance, suspicion, and abuse in one form or another. John Travolta is excellent as George, a garage mechanic that suddenly has an increased appetite for knowledge. Put yourself amidst intellectually inferior people and you will see for yourself how George is treated. People are very quick to accuse, get angry, and be jealous in real life, just as they were in this movie. Robert Duvall and Forest Whitaker lend good support as the only two faithful friends he has. Kyra Sedgwick is your typical small minded (going nowhere) girl you'd find in Anytown, USA. I had a huge problem with her abusive mistreatment of George and George's tolerance of her obnoxiousness. She was a huge turn-off. Somehow her sweetness is drawn out by the new George. The kids are appropriately of the cute TV variety. The ending is marred by a soapy climax and conclusion, and I gather that most people didn't expect it to go in the direction it did. There are some good plot threads and the final scene is poignant; I just wish it could have gotten there in a different manner. **1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"the perfect film for us saps","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This 1996 film stars John Travolta, Kyra Sedgwick, Robert Duvall, Forest Whitaker, Jeffrey DeMunn, and Richard Kiley. Travolta plays George Malley, a car mechanic who sees a light in the sky on his birthday and acquires great intelligence, helping the town he lives in.He soon becomes known as a freak and desirable to the government. How did this man become a genius?I just loved this very sweet and ultimately bittersweet film. I know for some it will be sentimental and trivial. It was on the slow side, a little too easygoing, but utterly charming with a terrific cast. The Robert Duvall role certainly did not need anyone of his caliber playing it, but it's always good to see him just the same. I have a feeling this might be a chick flick as I noticed some of the screen names on the negative reviews were mens though I didn't read all of them. This kind of movie isn't for everybody. For the moment, it was just what I needed. "},{"Title":"Not Great, Not Terrible","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie last night when my roommate's girlfriend came to visit. At first, I was just going to do something else like take a walk, but I found myself taken in by John Travolta's Aw, shucks-type character. Neither he, nor the movie itself, take themselves too seriously, and I think that's what makes it work. Still, it's a pretty generic tearjerker and a big time chick flick. But if you take it for what it is, it's pretty enjoyable. It's especially fun to see Travolta's character, whose brain suddenly absorbs any and all knowledge it can, still be unable to grasp why this has come about. Forrest Whittaker is also a lot of fun as his nerdy HAM radio- operating, Diana Ross-obsessed farmer friend. Throw in a single mom love interest with some cute, precocious kids and you've got a Hollywood formula that still works to this day. "},{"Title":"What It Could Have Been","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I don't consider Phenomenon a great movie. I also don't see it as a feel good movie. The message it gives us is that when we have a treasure in our midst, the first thing we do is try to ridicule, diminish, or destroy. This may sound cynical, but as one who has worked with gifted children, I've seen the name-calling and taunting. When George gets his gift, he becomes like a small child--gathering knowledge--absorbing the implications of his power. He should have read some history, however, because he would have better understood the way he was being treated. At least he wasn't burned at the stake. The circus comes to town and he is the freak--even being granted healing powers--something he has never claimed to have. While very touching it disappoints, becoming even a bit clichd (we've been down this road with Cliff Robertson's Charly). The writers needed to go deeper into their what if banks and ask themselves more about the implications of George's being. Still, Travolta's performance is sensitive and touching, showing why he has become one of our best actors. "},{"Title":"Dreck","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" PHENOMENON features a decent performance by John Urban Cowboy Travolta in a script that crashes and burns in ferocious fashion. Travolta plays an everyday guy who has a lightning-strike-from-the-sky vision and ends up with some curious mental powers. There's a romance with the then-delectable Kyra Sedgwick, Kevin Bacon's real-life wife, and all sorts of shenanigans having to do with Travolta's newfound telepathic abilities. It all comes to a very bad end, however, an end so bad I can't imagine how the screenwriters could have dreamed it up. It's a little like MICHAEL, wherein Travolta plays a looney who may or may not be an angel and then comes to a 100-car chain collision of an ending. So if you see PHENOMENON, do yourself a favor and skip the last few minutes. You then will have seen a somewhat whimsical movie that gets things half-right. "},{"Title":"some parts could have been done differently","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A previous reviewer noted an aspect of Phenomenon that I probably should have realized earlier it seems to be a Scientologist idea, maybe even an adaptation of Jesus's life. If so, then that weakens the movie. But if not, then the movie's pretty interesting. I really liked the scene where the guy interviews George Malley (John Travolta) and George goes beyond impressing him. I personally think that they could have ended the movie a little differently, but otherwise, it was an interesting look at life. Also starring Kyra Sedgwick, Forest Whitaker, Robert Duvall, Jeffrey DeMunn and Brent Spiner.I would have liked to have learnt more Portuguese than the movie identified. "}{"Title":"It's worth seeing if you aren't paying for the viewing.","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If you haven't seen this movie I am surprised. Not that it was monumental or anything, but it was during a boom in Travolta's career. Usually people will see or rent a movie during those peaks just by default. It has a real folky soundtrack and is trying to touch on some grass-roots humble tone with it's farmlife, sticks-town setting. It's insincere because of the casting. High-profile city sharks just don't play well as tree stumpin' s*&t stomping hicks. Maybe because of DuVall's role in Apostle he was cast as the religious adviser in this film.. It reaches for a great movie but never grabs hold. This is similar to a film Unbreakable where the initial setting is great and the first  hour is intriguing and shows promise, but then the movie simply dies. Phenomenon is something that you will either like or dislike but you won't love or hate it.SPOILER It's about a man living a simple life who is struck with an illness (which introduces itself as a brilliant flash of light in the form of some terrestrial nature that only he witnesses) that affects his brain (similar to a tumor) but is very specific in which areas of the brain are affected . These areas are the un-used portions that science claims to this day are dormant and are unknown in purpose. This awakened area due to the cellular cancer activity are stimulating his creative genius, capacity and rate of learning and of course telekinetic abilities. He eventually dies from the sickness and then there is a montage (Eric Clapton's change the world in background) showing how he has influenced the townspeople's lives throughout the film. There is also a love interest with Kyra Sedgewick that isn't really developed properly so you most likely won't feel any real emotional attachment exists.It's worth seeing but nothing to get excited about. Similar to his film Michael "},{"Title":"Nothing phenomenal here...","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Despite an innate charm and his actorly commitment to the role, nothing about John Travolta suggests a rural simpleton. When he's slopping the pigs here, or working furiously underneath cars at the local garage, Travolta looks as out of place as, well, Robert Duvall as a small town medico addicted to chess. On the night of his birthday, Travolta, an auto mechanic from an idyllic farming community, sees a bright light in the skies; it appears to fire something into him, knocking him off his feet, and by the next minute he has an extraordinarily clear head (nothing is made of the connection between the supernatural occurrence and Travolta's birthday--that's just a ruse to get him outside at night). Soon, he's speaking fluent Spanish, reading three books a day, unscrambling Morse Code, building rocking chairs, and beating doc Duvall at chess! Much of Travolta's progress is done up in happy montages to pop songs (Every day is a winding road...), while John attempts to woo the local single mom (using auto innuendo!) and alienating just about everyone else (alas, they're too 'simple' to understand). Condescending feel good concoction is overly-familiar, not to mention downright dumb. Forest Whitaker is the local lonely guy (the camera always catches him looking down in laughter, his shoulders shaking), Brent Spiner intrudes as a specialist, and soon even the FBI is called in. Is there anything not fabricated about Phenomenon? *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"How To Handle 'Intelligence'","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This was an interesting tale of a man who subtly gets intelligence (through a reverse brain tumor) and how his small-town friends react and handle the situation. There are some good comments in here about the times we live in. This would be better without six usages of the Lord's name in vain but basically, the language is pretty tame for a modern-day movie.This was a simple, low-key story, definitely worth a rental. Kyra Sedgewick doesn't make for an appealing female lead but you don't always have to have drop-dead gorgeous women play leads. I had heard this had a very sad ending, but I did not find that. A decent movie overall, just not that memorable. "},{"Title":"Raised my hopes then let them fall","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Let me be the first to admit that I love a good tear-jerker every once in awhile just like many other movie-goers and even, occasionally, enjoy venturing into the sappy side of cinema. However, I just did not feel any of the emotion that I assumed the film Phenomenon was attempting to convey. I by no means blame this on the actors who, for the most part, put in above average performances based on what they were given. Unfortunately it is difficult to work on a higher level when the source material never delves deeper than surface level emotion. The downfall of this film falls squarely upon the poor, scattered screenplay. Although built on an intriguing concept regarding the power of human thought that occasionally does hit the mark and make an insightful comment on human nature (particularly the psychology of how people react to the unknown), it does not seem to know exactly where it wants to take this idea. Instead, the plot rambles about from one event to the next, which works for the first hour or so&#151;up until we hit the twist. A twist that takes all remaining mystery or intrigue out of the film and pushes it from a somewhat thought-provoking supernatural piece to what I'm sure the writers assumed would be a heart-wrenching drama. Regrettably, with so little emphasis on character development before this point (only the likable, good-guy George ever seems to have consistent motivation throughout the film) it makes it hard to connect with any of the suddenly formed relationships that could have been the basis for the drama of the last portion of the film. As much as I wanted to feel for George and the inevitable ending that had been presented, I found it difficult to muster up much emotion aside from a touch of depression which was brought on more by the unexpected, dreary down-turn of the plot than the event itself.Normally, I enjoy realistic science fiction films and the use of average heroes as protagonists, but due to the many downfalls of the script I found myself merely feeling disappointed as all hope I had in the movie slowly dwindled away. Certainly this is not a terrible film and the actors do their best to keep what little they have to work with afloat, but, for the most part, it is entirely unmemorable and would have done better as a feel-good, Sunday evening flick. "},{"Title":"I hated hated hated hated hated this movie","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Among a slew of positive comments for Phenomenon, you may think I am writing one of those joking comments where I praise a very bad movie or insult a good movie (there are some great ones for Good Burger and Police Academy Mission to Moscow). Well, you're wrong. I wish to profess my absolute, honest hatred for Phenomenon. This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.I have never professed to being a big fan of intense dramas such as this one, but this one is ridiculously overrated. The acting is mediocre, the script is awful. I think the writer of this movie came to the producer saying, I don't know how this movie should end. We came up with five different endings and I don't know which one should go into the script and the producer said, Just put all of them in! It's true, about five times in the movie, I thought, OK, I guess it's over now, only to see that they actually CONTINUED going on.Don't listen to the other comments or the Blockbuster Entertainment Awards. This movie is AWFUL, AWFUL, AWFUL. It greatly lowered my opinion of John Travolta, which was not raised again until I saw Get Shorty on DVD. "},{"Title":"Give me a break!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I liked it better the first time round when it was called Powder. Phenomenon was released a year later and follows the  exact same plot with a few minor details. Instead of a freak with special abilities it's John Travolta, popular guy, who gets struck by lightning and turns smart...How original!It is just too easy to take an average Joe and turn him into a superman for an audience seeking inspiration and enlightenment. I have to admit I couldn't help but feel a little moved when John Travolta made that spoon shake using an intense gaze but something in the back of my mind made me want to puke. Maybe I'm just a realist who doesn't enjoy seeing the great gift of knowledge being divinely thrust upon a Hollywood movie star with very little explanation to as where it came from. It left too much to the imagination without any direction, and it stepped too far out of the realm of the real(the possible) and too far into the realm the absolute absurd.If you're looking for a movie to inspire you, it needs to be well grounded first either in reality or in a well designed script.  This movie offered neither.      "},{"Title":"Sickening propaganda","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" What if a person can access his hidden potential? Wouldn't that be sooo good? You can in real life, you know. Just join scientology. The movie is a vehicle for exactly that thought.Monday night movie at its worst, with a dubious (and in some nations illegal) thought behind it. I can't believe that someone like Spiner would get involved with this drivel. If you are bent on having your intelligence insulted, there are many other titles out there that do the job just as well without you having to watch over-his-prime-again-Travolta. Please don't pay money for this pamphlet. "},{"Title":"A Dreadful Film","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Since 'Apocalypse Now', it seems as though Robert Duvall didn't have any vehicles for his career. In 'Phenomenon', he is guiding John Travolta through this dreadful film which could easily be shortened to a half hour episode of 'The Twilight Zone'. In spite of Forest Whitaker's appearance in the film, the film has no substance or weight to belong in anyone's canon. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable little movie.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  **1/2 out of ****This is a fine vehicle for John Travolta and he makes the most of it, but there is not much else happening here. The movie has a good premise and the filmmakers let us know it by stretching its limits in every single way. It has a nice small town charm to it and the characters are extremely likeable, but the story too often steers in the wrong direction and becomes too large scale. The performances are the main reason to watch this one. "},{"Title":"Super-dull rather than supernatural - 56%","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There's a story here which you won't believe but I'll tell you anyway. When relatives of mine lived in the US, we flew over to join them for the Christmas and New Year holidays. We had three films on the flight there Broken Arrow (crap), The Rock (better) and The Santa Clause (inexcusable, even for Christmas). On the return flight (which was a night flight), we had one Phenomenon. We would have had more but the power failed in the passenger section of the plane, meaning the flight was silent and the only lights we could see were on the wing. And here's the thing - you could hear a sigh of relief when the screen blacked out, as though the whole plane was thankful that the film had been taken off.Admittedly, it's not that bad but this is a long way from Travolta's best as he plays George, a fairly simple mechanic in a hum-drum farm town in the dusty middle of nowhere. The sort of place you see in Loony Tunes cartoons with Porky Pig and Foghorn Leghorn. Anyway, after drinking a few at his birthday party, George is hit by a strange light and begins to develop super intelligence and other, more mysterious powers. Can he win the heart of wide-mouthed love interest Lace Pennamin (Kyra Sedgwick) and can he prove his claims to an increasingly hostile public? To be honest, I'm having to work a bit there to explain the plot because, in truth, not much really happens. Like I said, this is small-town America where nothing EVER happens and while it could be argued that George's abilities enrich the lives of those around him and this is his heart-warming story, I'm not buying it for a minute. The only phenomenon I saw was how long this film felt, both on the plane and again on TV when I gave it a second chance. I've no doubt that some viewers will enjoy this emotional drama (I would put money on the fact that my Mum would cry at the ending) but I'm not really one for these sort of films and I was left feeling nonchalant and upset at wasting my time. To be honest, I needed the sleep but you know how it is to watch a film and then miss the ending, no matter how bad the film.Acting is passable from the big names, Robert Duvall (as the town's medic, originally called Doc by every single person in existence!) and Travolta do OK with what they've been given. Forest Whitaker rambles on like a blithering idiot as George's best mate, Nate but for most of the film, I couldn't take my eyes off Kyra Sedgwick's mouth. It's wide enough to swallow three lanes of traffic! Not her fault, bless her, but she does the role with plenty of whimsy. Add to the mix a strong sugary taste and lots of pleasant small-town locales and Phenomeon feels less like the sci-fi it should be and more like Hope Floats with telekinesis. Fine, if you like that sort of thing. But for me personally... nah! "}{"Title":"Interesting show, if you can accept it as just a show.","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It may seem to some to be a vehicle for Scientology; to others it may be a retelling of the life of Jesus.  To me, it's just a nice show. It's good to see Forest Whitaker and Robert Duvall.  They certainly breathe life into their characters.The pace gets a bit slow, especially the last third or so.  It's a bit manipulative and predictable, too.  I turn off the sound during the haircut scene; Aaron Neville's version of Crazy Love is just too shallow for me.  Van Morrison did so much better, plus he wrote it!  Why not use his version?!Relax, enjoy, Peace  "},{"Title":"Nice Hollywood story","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A nice Hollywood production of a man that receives an awesome talent on his birthday (blimey!). Pretty daft and predictable.Travolta is alright, while it's always enjoying watching Forest Whitaker. Brill actor.But, sorry, can't say I recommend it, but it's fairly interesting. "},{"Title":"Phenomenon","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I recognised this film from the poster and the leading actor, but I had no idea what to expect, from director Jon Turteltaub (While You Were Sleeping). Basically on his birthday, George Malley (John Travolta) sees a strange light come down from the sky, and hit him. No-one else saw it, and over the next few days George develops newfound intelligence and telekinesis (moving things with his mind), and he uses these abilities for the good of his community. Word gets around about, and he becomes known as a freak, and everyone wants to know what happened to the old car mechanic. Soon enough the government gets involved wanting to see and understand his abilities. The only people that don't want to do anything to him, and are still good friends are Lace Pennamin (Pyrates' Kyra Sedgwick), Nate Pope (Forest Whitaker) and Doc Brunder (Robert Duvall). Also starring David Gallagher as Al Pennamin, Ashley Buccille as Glory Pennamin, Tony Genaro as Tito, Sean O'Bryan as Banes and Independence Day's Brent Spiner as Dr. Bob Niedorf. Besides the one or two fun to watch tricks Travolta can do, this film is no much of a phenomenon, but it's okay. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Phenomibore is Phenomenally Depressing","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Well here it is. Phenomenon is a movie that is very much like Powder, this guy has super knowledge abilities and is able to manipulate objects without touching them. Hmm remind you of an older movie??? This movie stinks of rip off of Powder which was actually a Quality Film, Just because it has Travolta in it does not mean it is going to be worth a DIME. This is just my two cents here, or if your in the UK my two pence. But if you want a movie that is truly heartfelt and will make your spirit feel power and feel uplifted after watching it, this movie is not the right one... your in the wrong place... go look at Powder, one year older, 1995, less special effects technology back in 95, but one dang awesome movie that actually is not a Phenomibore and a PhenomiFAIL "},{"Title":"sort of boring..highly anti climactic","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Here it is 2009 and i finally see phenomenon the movie that most people compare to powder from the previous year. about a person with supernatural powers that people are afraid of. i personally do not think this is even close. this particular movie was super long and super boring.. nothing significant ever happens. i mean here it is in a nut shell; a guy gets flashed with a strange light (from nowhere, its never explained) and ends up with super heightened intelligence and telekinesis first of all why do people think its so awesome that this guy can move pencils and pens and other objects that weigh less than 3 grams with his mind. i mean i cant do it but this is a movie why not make it epic WOW me for my rental price for Gods sake. secondly he never does anything with his powers except find a sick child in an orchard and read a crap load of books wow what a SNORE move over X-MEN the super fantastic phenomenal book reading man is on the way!!!!!!! they could have saved the whole bit with the FBI and the doctors it was EXTRA LAME.. seriously some random doctor can fly down from on high and get a judge to order you to let people kill you by performing some type of brain surgery... umm what country are we in again? So basically this movie takes a random likable guy who's in love with a cute albeit enormously wide mouthed divorce (Kyra Sedgwick) and it gives him a brain tumor and takes two hours to kill him (movie run time... or was it 3) (or is it kill us) FOR NO REASON!!!!! here is a thought KEEP YOUR FREAKING PENCIL MOVING MIRROR BREAKING POWERS THEY ARE NOT WORTH THE DEADLY BRAIN TUMOR!!!!! loved the acting...the actors..even the cute wide mouthed blonde...but that story HORRENDOUS~~!!@~! its like watching puppies drown in boiling mud!!! i am gonna go watch something manly now like Resivior Dogs i am in need of some major ASSKICKERY! "},{"Title":"Phenomenonly Boring","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie starts with something that leads you to believe that it may be a fine movie when John Travolta as George Malley sees a bright light and is struck down by it. Then his personality changes as he seems to be learning at a very fast rate from the books he reads. Could it have been aliens that have given him a higher level intelligence? His friend Nate Pope played by Forest Whitaker is very likable and is probably the one character that I really enjoyed. The film suddenly begins to go down hill fast. No action and nothing happening in a small town. Maybe that is the way a small town is? At the end the film attempts to come up with a twist, and it does, but a brain tumor is not as exciting as an alien would have been. At least Nate is given the desire of his heart in the final scenes. So if you enjoy Travolta in a small town setting, with much dialog, then this film is for you.  "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Boring, stupid story about a man in Hicksville, America who gets struck by a strange meteor after a night at the town bar and suddenly achieves strange powers that let him move things and see things that other people can't.Travolta is fine but the film is weak and too darn long. Sentimental rubbish if there ever were such a thing. "}]