[{"Title":"Extremely underrated, first-rate action/thriller!","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"45 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie really proves that the world is all too often an unfair place, especially the world of motion pictures. The Assignment received barely any attention upon it's release and not surprisingly flopped at the box-office, but when history will be written this movie will most surely receive some long lost praise.Thank God I'm surrounded by friends who knows what's good for me. Being a movie buff like myself a pal highly recommended The Assignment, a movie I hadn't even heard about. I decided to check out what Leonard Maltin gave it, and not surprisingly he gave it **1/2. Knowing that this is the same grade he gave classics like Alien, The Usual Suspects and The Matrix (I kid you not) I knew his meaning didn't mean diddly squat jack s***. So without hesitating I went out and bought it on DVD. This was about 3 years ago and the movie is still one of my proudest belongings in my DVD collection, despite a cover design that echoes a low budget stinker with Casper Van Dien.The Assignment is expertly directed, delivering some really intense moments that will hold you on the edge of your seat throughout the movie, on top of that it boasts an at times brilliant story that you know will be riddled with unexpected twists and turns. It stars Aidan Quinn in one of his best performances, and serves him with great support by Donald Sutherland and Ben Kingsley who are both in great form.Something like 40 out of 42 user comments like this movie, most of them can't seem to praise it enough. So what are you waiting for? If you call yourself a fan of action-thrillers you should have bought it, rented it, seen it YESTERDAY! "},{"Title":"An Outstanding Espionage/Terrorist Thriller","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"29 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Assignment is an outstanding thriller with several plot twists driven by character, rather than star turns, the need to stage special effects, obligatory romance, and endless car chases. However, there is a car chase in here, and a dandy it is. Aidan Quinn is wonderful as both the terrorist and the naval officer recruited to eliminate him. It is rare that a second or third tier actor, such as Quinn, is given an important starring role like this that carries a film. Usually, such a role is given to an A-list actor with box office draw, which is probably why I never heard of this film before I saw it. Donald Sutherland is great as the morally ambiguous, somewhat creepy at times, agent that recruits Quinn. Ben Kingsley is fine also as the Israeli agent. The plot is very complex and there are multiple story lines, which converge in gradual fashion toward the end, and not all at once as we're used to seeing. The paranoia and claustrophobia of these type of thrillers is captured and portrayed with both moral ambiguity and frightening intensity. The locations are convincing and effective. The soundtrack is nothing special, but rarely do we get all of the above mentioned qualities these days, without dumb and/or meaningless plot developments; unconvincing star turns; loud, annoying, music video type soundtracks; a villain that hams it up; and repeatedly a cast, costumes, and plot that cater mostly to an audience under 25. This is an outstanding thriller, which most assuredly did not get its just due upon its release. ***1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Slick, tidy, and well-made old school version of a great international thriller.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Slick, tidy, and well-made old school version of how a great international thriller should be made.  Determined to nail a feared global terrorist who is known as Carlos the Jackal, Jack Shaw (Donald Sutherland, Without Limits, Space Cowboys), a CIA operative and his Israeli counterpart, Amos (Ben Kingsley, Gandhi, Sexy Beast) get a noble Naval officer, Annibal Ramirez (Aidan Quinn, Music of the Heart), to become Carlos and use him in a daring plot to get the KGB to kill the real Carlos, because he took an offer from the CIA.  Sutherland and Kingsley are both good here, but the movie really belongs to Quinn here, who embodies himself here (in a dual role).  Director Christian Duguay and cinematographer David Franco provide another great asset of the film here with Hitchcockian-like suspense and great sights of the world.   "},{"Title":"kept my butt up","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very late one night, I happened to click to some cable station that had a movie starting called The Assignment.  I had heard that it was a well made movie from my mother, but who listens to their mother's opinion about movies?  Especially about some espionage thriller. Well --- who likes to admit when their mother is right...about anything?  Well --- my mother was right. I was up all night, until 4 in the morning, alone, watching this movie, getting paranoid and sucked into its classically told story.  The acting was superlative, the direction was on target - which could also be said for the aim of the actors (a lot of gun play), and best of all, it didn't telegraph where the plot was heading.  It's a perfect set-up for a franchise, (sorry to sound like an executive at some lumbering movie studio) because I'd be completely interested to see the next adventures of these well rounded characters - and the actors that play them. To the film makers Do more of these! To the movie watching audience  watch it!  watch it with someone you love, as the old saying goes...not because it's romantic, but rather, it's a movie that you need to grab hold of someone during those extra exciting parts. No joke. (the sex scenes teach you a thing or too, as well.  A movie that's entertaining, as well as informative!  Hey!  Now that's a novelty.)  "},{"Title":"This movie never lets up.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't usually like these kind of espionage movies due to their being dull and predictable.  Well, I have changed my mind with this one.  This was a real sleeper with a real intelligent story line that keeps you guessing and surprised throughout.  Also the surround sound and the great camera work really adds to it.  On a scale of 1-10, I would give it a 10 as I don't know how you could make a better film on this subject.   "},{"Title":"A brilliant, complex, entertaining thriller","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best thrillers I've seen.  It's intelligently made and brilliantly filmed, and is one of the few thrillers that creates complex, interesting characters and makes the movie about them, not the action.  I would recommend it to just about anyone, especially people who like movies with both style and substance.   "},{"Title":"The REAL Jackal","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is certainly a quality movie with a classy cast. As far as movies about Carlos the Jackal go, this one beats Bruce Willis' feeble efforts in 'The Jackal' to a bloody pulp, then spits on them. I am a bit surprised that this movie hasn't attracted more votes, something of a 'sleeper' obviously. A pity because this film is definitely worth a watch. It is clever and never dull. See it, 7/10 "},{"Title":"The best spy thriller","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It worked! Director Christian Duguay created a very clever action/spy thriller. The actors Donald Sutherland and especially Aidan Quinn gave a top performance. What a pity that we couldn´t see Aidan Quinn in others movies like this one till now. He was simply the best in the role as Ramirez/Carlos for what he should have earned the Oscar. The picture was very nice. The scenes are fast paced from beginning to the end and the story doesn´t let you a chance to get bored. The movie is too underrated and I recommend it to anyone otherwise you will miss something great. Believe me you will not be disappointed. That´s why i give it 9/10.  "},{"Title":"A sleeper of a spy thriller!","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie to be quite enjoyable and fairly entertaining. Good characters,good actors and enough suspense to keep your interest throughout. The plot twists might have been a bit much but overall a decent thriller. If you liked this film I would recommend The Spanish Prisoner, The House of Games and No Way Out. "},{"Title":"Stunts & Actors...","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Stunts sequences (as well as the Special Effects) are Brilliant, in this movie. Michael Scherer must be one of Canadas BEST Stunt Co-ordinators of all time. The explosion in the Café, is a wonderful combination of Stunts, Special Effects AND Visual Effects. The Director HAD an idea, that the Crew managed to create on film.Besides that; Donald Sutherland makes one of his best performances in this film....... "}{"Title":"great thriller with action, plot, characters and suspense","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably one of the best thrillers I have ever seen. It has action, but not this bullet-flying, good guys - bad guys, van damme - stallone action, but quick, realistic and nervous action, it has a plot, cause till the very end of the movie you don't know how this is gonna end, it has characters, aidan quinn, donald sutherland and ben kingsley are just perfect, and it has suspense, this movie just won't let you go away before you've seen the end of it.Though there are only a few characters, I didn't find it difficult to keep my attention the the story, and as for the story, it's basic (not too tom clancy-difficult, but simple and raw) and realistic.If you're in for a movie with a good story, some action and great acting, watch this and I promise, you won't go away till you've seen the end of it. The very end of it. "},{"Title":"A film that deserves more acclaim.","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I will not comment on the story as such. I agree with most peoples comments that this is a good all round action movie with a well told story and good acting.This film deserves 100% for cinematography for its opening sequence. The opening shot is stunning and I have not yet figured out how they did it. The movie is worth watching for that shot alone! A pity therefore that the DVD that is currently out is just the movie and no information is given as to the making of the film. Let's hope somebody comes up with the special edition.And the even better thing is that the opening sequence also becomes the ending leaving you totally guessing! Great stuff. A must have for a collector of classic film moments. "},{"Title":"Brilliant new take","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you liked the Richard Chamberlain version of the Bourne Identity then you will like this too...Aiden Quinn does this one brilliantly, you can't help but wonder if he is really out there...I reckon he and the other main cast members probably had nightmares for weeks after doing this movie as it's so intense. When I first saw it I was just flicking channels on the remote late one evening..& I got hooked within minutes. look up www.answers.com for Ilich Ramírez Sánchez who is the character that carlos the Jackal is based on for both... I remember reading about Ilich Ramírez Sánchez's arrest in the paper in 1997. It was front page for weeks, through the trial after his arrest. "},{"Title":"Great spy thriller","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Christian Duguay directed this tidy little espionage thriller early in his career. It plays on TV pretty regularly, albeit with some terrific scenes of violence and sex unfortunately trimmed. I finally got around to seeing the theatrical version on a $3 tape from the local video store. Naval officer Aidan Quinn is recruited to impersonate the notorious Carlos the Jackal, and gets a little too caught up in the role. Donald Sutherland Ben Kingsley play Quinn's superiors, with Sutherland a true zealot and Kingsley as the more level-headed one. The first half of this fun flick shows Quinn being trained and indoctrinated. The second half has him out in the field, making love to the Jackal's woman and shooting it out with sundry enemies. The idea is to make the Jackal look like a turncoat to the Russians, and let them take care of the world's most notorious assassin. Things don't exactly play out as planned. At times, I almost expected the cast to break out laughing at some of the corny dialogue, but they all play it very straight. In the end, this is one terrific little thriller that deserves your attention. The Jackal's former mistress teaching the highly proper and very married Quinn to rough her up, lick blood from her face, and then go down on her, alone is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Smart, Sophisticated Action/Thriller","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film. It was so intelligent but it also had some great action sequences, without basing the movie solely around them. Quinn, Sutherland and Kingsley all put in fantastic performances and there are enough twists to keep anyone interested. The ending was great as well. "},{"Title":"The TRUE Bourne Identity!","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  2002's the Bourne Identity is one of my all-time favorite movies.  however, many  fans of the book have complained that the movie had very little to do with the  book's plot.The Assignment is the real deal.  It's odd that no-one on the Bourne Identity  threads has mentioned this movie at all.  (Well, I jst did.)Besides the excellent plot, I personally found this movie to be as good as any  espionage movie I've ever seen, with the possible exception of The BourneIdentity itself.The action is all completely realistic.  I especially liked the protagonists' training  regimen, which was very inventive.The feel is dark and gritty.   There are a few surprising plot twists.   The acting is  excellent.  If you like this genre, I cannot recommend this movie highly enough. "},{"Title":"Good movie - better than The Jackal!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Assignment is a solid thriller which is comparable with The Jackal in terms of story.  However it is a much better film than it's big budget brother with better story and a more compelling sense of tension (and you don't have to put up with Richard Gere's wandering Irish accent).Aidan Quinn is good in twin roles of Carlos and Ramirez, in particular portraying the way Ramirez changes during his training.  Sutherland is as good as always - but in some scenes still has an element of hamminess about him, Kingsley is good but underused.The story is more believable than The Jackal (if you can get past the fact that Carlos has an exact double!) with plot to get Carlos being more intelligence and espionage based than the gunplay solution of The Jackal.  Indeed the story is what makes this film so interesting.  There are only a few action scenes in the film but again are all tense, the scenes of terrorist attack are frightening but tend to linger of shots of extras with bad blood makeup (some horrors are more terrible if left to the viewers' imagination).Overall, a tight little thriller that makes up in plot and acting what it lacks in star-power and budget. "},{"Title":"Holds the Attention","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS.Aidan Quinn is an upright naval officer recruited by CIA man Donald Sutherland and ex-Mossad agent Ben Kingsley to pose as Carlos (the Jackal) because, after all, Quinn is an exact duplicate of Carlos.  The general idea is to train Quinn the naval officer to think and act like Carlos the jackal.  Then, pretending to be Carlos, Quinn will be seen by observers talking to the CIA.  The KGB, who have been associated with Carlos, cannot allow such goings on and will assassinate the real Carlos to prevent him from revealing KGB secrets.  Simple enough.  Also, as plausible as some cheap mechanical device advertised on TV as giving you iron-hard abs in no time at all.Of course, things don't go as planned.  If they did, this would be a routine spy thriller and you could shoehorn Sylvester Stallone or Steven Seagal into the Quinn part.  A reluctant and doubtful Quinn is trained in Montreal.  Taken to Israel and given further training, including a lesson in how Carlos makes love to the women he uses.  Then he arranges to meet his Carlos' girl in Beirut, this time actually playing Carlos for keeps.  But the girl, thinking he is the real Carlos, has sold him out to the French and they try to knock him off.  They fail, and in the process, they lose four of their men to Quinn.  Quinn shoots one of them in the forehead to save himself and it doesn't make him feel particularly good to have this guy's brains splattered on his face because, after all, the French are trying to kill Carlos, which is what we are trying to fake the KGB into doing anyway.  And the French are our allies -- or they were until recently, when we started pouring their wine into our gutters.  In a public place, poor Quinn is taken for the real Carlos by one of Carlos' henchmen -- but Quinn doesn't know the password.  He doesn't even know there IS a password.  He is saved from assassination by Carlos' forces by Ben Kingsley, at the expense of Kingsley's life.Then it gets a little more interesting.  The operation is called off by the CIA and a grateful Quinn returns home to his loving wife and little kiddy.  But he's changed.  Now he makes rough love to his wife and explodes with anger at unexpected moments -- just as Carlos would have done. Sutherland visits him to tell him the caper is back on but Quinn is unwilling to go back to being Carlos, what with all those nasty habits.  Sutherland tells him  Listen, I don't have a family.  I don't have any friends.  The only people I've ever really cared about were the people I killed -- and you.  I CREATED you.  Quinn  You didn't create me.  You infected me with your poison.  So, to bring Quinn back in, Sutherland threatens to have it booted about that Quinn is Carlos' double and someone, somewhere, somehow, sometime, will eliminate Quinn and the rest of his family.  (This is known as dirty pool.)In the end, the plot works -- more or less.  Quinn and his family wind up safe and suntanned, but I won't get into the somewhat convoluted ending. Genre conventions aside -- oh, by genre conventions I refer to shootouts, falling bodies in slow motion, cars tumbling end over end, somebody falling onto a power line and disappearing in a fireworks display -- that sort of thing.  Two people are going at it mano a mano and one of them bangs his forehead against his opponent's forehead, disabling the opponent and ignoring one of Newton's laws of motion.  But genre conventions aside, the movie deals with an interesting problem.  Well all occupy different roles at different times, don't we?  We may be a spouse, a parent, an employee, an employer, a checker player, a stamp collector, a taxpayer, a member of the junior chamber of commerce, although I hope not, and so forth -- but not all at the same time.  We occupy these roles one at a time, depending on circumstances.  The anthropologist Ralph Linton distinguished between active status, the one we occupy at the moment, and latent statuses, those others we are capable of playing but for the moment have stashed away for use at some other time.  During his respite, Quinn is having problems firming up his active status as the nice-guy naval officer, and suppressing his latent status as Carlos the sadistic maniac.  This causes him and those around him considerable distress on the Little League Ballfield.  We all have problems activating the proper role at some time or other, but the problems seldom reach the magnitude of Quinn's.The acting is pretty good.  I've always kind of like Quinn.  He's not a bravura performer but he looks okay -- handsome, but not too handsome, if you know what I mean.  His wife does well in a relatively small part, too, as well as anyone else in the flick.  Ben Kingsley is great as an Israeli agent, waving his arms and speaking in Hebrew-tinted aphorisms.  Donald Sutherland as CIA agent Jack Shaw should have been named Jack Epictetus.  Every time something goes wrong, he shrugs it off in the most stoic of manners.  Well, the guy was in the wrong place at the wrong time, or whatever.  He gives the juiciest performance too, a not-entirely morally upright kind of guy, though nominally on the right side.  He's positively gleeful when our French allies attack Quinn and get murdered instead.  Nothing is more likely to convince the KGB that our phony is for real than a failed attack by the French that leaves bodies behind. The score is unremarkable.  The production makes excellent use of location shooting.  What passes for Beirut looks as if it ought to be Beirut.  The weakest part of the movie is its script.  The writers don't show much in the way of imagination.  The dialogue has its good moments (The only people I ever really cared about were the people I killed), but is more often trite (You didn't create me.  You infected me with your poison).  The movie is above average for the genre, but it could have been better than that if the script had been spruced up.  There are too many lines like, I don't know who you are anymore.  Ho hum.  But its weaknesses shouldn't be enough to keep one from watching this film which, after its expository opening, has the tension of a coiled spring.    "},{"Title":"The REAL Bourne Identity!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Who is Jason Bourne?  It's very likely his real name was Annibal Ramirez.This is my favorite terrorist thriller of all time.   The Assignment had the essential plot of The Bourne Identity (the book by Robert Ludlum, not the movie starring Matt Damon) and the themes Face/Off only touched on.THE PROSTHE SCRIPT--this movie was co-written by a former agent with the Israeli Mossad (Israel's version of the CIA), so The Assignment had an aura of realism that most Hollywood thrillers lack.  This movie showed a dark world of twisted intrigue most of us knows exists but never see.  I admit, the look-alike premise was contrived.  But the plan to get Carlos was old-school counter-espionage at its best.THE ACTING--this movie was well-acted all-around.  Aidan Quinn was great, both as the tortured hero and the badass villain.  Donald Sutherland was also top-notch as the CIA agent obsessed with catching Carlos the Jackal. Ben Kingsley shines as always, this time as an utterly cool, professional Mossad agent.THE DIRECTING--very well-shot, with interesting camera angles that enhanced the story, not just used to show off the director's talent.  Good use of locations.  I really felt like I had been to Europe and the Middle East.THE OPENING SEQUENCE--easily one of the most attention-grabbing opening sequences I've seen in a long time.  There's a dazzling sustained steadicam shot, then a scene of such brutal terrorism it's easy to see why CIA agent Jack Shaw becomes bent on destroying Carlos the Jackal.THE TRAINING SCENES--I've seen tons of action movies.  This was one of rare few that took the time to explain in a compelling way how the good guy learns the skills he uses to beat the bad guy.  These scenes were already plenty tense, but the psychological angle of going into the mind of a terrorist took it to the next level.  I also recommend watching this movie, then watching The Bourne Identity starring Matt Damon.  The training scenes in The Assignment explain how Jason Bourne probably learned to be an assassin.THE ACTION SCENES--they were all fantastic, real yet stylish at the same time.  However, don't expect another Face/Off or The Rock.  Unlike most Hollywood blockbusters, The Assignment is driven by intelligence and suspense, not spectacular set pieces.  But even if the action scenes sucked (which they don't) they would still be gripping because of the engrossing story.THE THEMES--the themes made this, already a good movie, a great one.  The Assignment deals with identity, integrity (how bad are you willing to be to do the right thing?), and of how evil infects everything it touches.THE CONSTHE CLIMAX--this was what disappointed me the most.  After taking all that time to carefully build up the hero and villain, their final confrontation felt too rushed and too predictable.CARLOS THE JACKAL--he didn't get enough screen time!  He was so cool and badass, I wanted to see more!THE SEXUAL CONTENT--actually I thought this was a good thing, because that damnable PG-13 rating makes it seem like people in movies don't have sex. Just so they can pack more teenagers into theaters.  The Assignment contains a good share of sex scenes, the most intense being the one Annibal had with an ex-girlfriend of the Jackal.  All purely to advance his training, of course.  That actress was dynamite!OVERALL  The Assignment is a first-class thriller the likes of which we won't see again very soon.  Too bad it was overshadowed by bigger-budgeted, lower-quality terrorist flicks like The Peacemaker and The Jackal.SCORE 9.0 out of 10 "},{"Title":" Just close your eyes,  think of England  and make love to her  ","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Throughout the world the unmistakable imprint of the American C.I.A. can be found in many a muddled mess they have left behind. In the beginning, their objectives were simple spy, remove enemy agents, steal classified information and destabilize unfavorable governments. Years have elapse and although their mission remains similar, their clandestine black operations now include domestic spying, discrediting U.S. citizens and infiltrating American organizations who criticize the U.S. government. This movie however, centers on the C.I.A.'s world manhunt for the infamous 'Carlos, the Jackel.' The film is called  The Assignment  and tells the story Lt. Cmdr. Annibal Ramirez, (Aidan Quinn) a U.S. naval officer who bears a striking resemblance to the mastermind of so many terrorist bombings. Recruited by Jack Shaw (Donald Sutherland) of the C.I.A. and Amos (Ben Kingsley), a special agent from the Israeli Mosad, Ramirez is secretly trained to look, pose, infiltrate the elusive organization and to thereafter discredit the real Jackel working for the Russians. This film is Explosively exciting, and packed with wild chases, killings and inter-country mayhem. Quinn is wonderful and surprisingly artistic playing both sides of the war. Easily one of his best efforts. **** "}{"Title":"My favorite thriller","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Every single thing about this movie works. Characters, setting, photography, special effects, action... everything. It's a must see for someone looking for a thrill, as well as a must see for someone who just wants to know how a character should be developed. One of the few movies, that actually takes the risk of making the good guys active, not just waiting for the bad guy to do bad stuff. One of the few movies, that takes the risk of showing how flawed his hero is, and yet keep him likable.Don't miss it. It's not your regular action flick. It's the movie that will make you understand how action movie should be. It's a movie that will make you see the constant war on terror, in a new light. "},{"Title":"This Assignment Gets An A+","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm a huge fan of the spy genre and this is one of the best of these films. The Assignment is based on a true story, which has been somewhat embellished for the big screen, and it really takes you on a fun ride. The film has a great cast, starring Aidan Quinn, Donald Sutherland and Ben Kingsley.Naval Officer Quinn is a reluctantly recruited by Sutherland after a chance meeting with Kingsley who believes Quinn to be the famous terrorist Carlos the Jackal. Because Quinn so closely resembles Carlos, Sutherland stops at nothing to recruit him because Sutherland is obsessed with the terrorist's capture or death.The training sequences are awesome. Quinn is really put to the test by Kingsley and Sutherland, having to withstand attacks from remote controlled snowmobiles, from eating the same food each day, to being drugged with a hallucinogen. He even has to learn how to make love to a woman the way Carlos would.The film has some great action scenes with Quinn eluding allies because they believe he is Carlos and in his final mission when he is to kill the jackal. Throughout the film, Quinn must struggle with the new personality he has attained versus his own. Will he remain as ruthless and free as Carlos or will he once again return to his life of a good husband and father? If you like the spy genre, this is a must see. The action is used only to propel the story of this thriller forward; no gratuitous explosions or fight scenes. Rating 10 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Great Spy Thriller","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Once I knew that Donald Sutherland, (Jack Shaw/Henry Fields) was appearing in this film it instantly told me this was going to be a good picture to view. Most of Sutherland's pictures are full of action and suspense and he can play a rather cruel character and can also be quite charming and kind. In this picture, Jack Shaw did his very best to be a good guy and a bad guy while he was training a Naval Office to become a spy who had to change his entire identity and become a different person over night. There is plenty of car chase scenes and plenty of stunt men situations which I would not want to perform. This Naval Officer lived in a quite community with his wife and was a father, but you would never realize that fact until the film reveals his horrible background secrets which he had to keep from his family and friends. Good spy film and great acting by all the actors. "},{"Title":"Solid action movie with interesting premise.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about Carlos The Jackal (Quinn), an international terrorist who, by CIA agent Henry Fields's (Sutherland) description, appears to maim women and children for the heck of it. At least that's what he says to guilt US Naval Officer Annibal Ramirez (Quinn again) into taking on the assignment of posing as Carlos and setting him up as a traitor in the eyes of the KGB. Ramirez is apparently physically identical to Carlos but mentally he is his antithesis. He is borne of order and Carlos is borne of chaos.The movie isn't all shoot-gun-jump-around action, and that's a good thing. In its first half, Ramirez undergoes training to act and think like Carlos, and that's actually where the movie achieves its distinction from other run-of-the-mill action flicks. An Israeli agent (Kingsley), joins Fields in training Ramirez, and together they appear to take on the roles of parents in the birthing of Ramirez's new character. Ramirez is taught to dislike the things Carlos dislikes, to act on the split second like Carlos would, and even to make love like Carlos (courtesy of an ex-girlfriend of Carlos's). Naturally all that he is taught would be put to good use in the later half of the movie. It's a little contrived but Quinn gives a riveting performance as a Carlos-wannabe.Another thing I liked about this movie was that it didn't utilize the much overdone plot point in evil twin movies - you know, the one in which the evil twin insinuates himself into the good twin's family. Ramirez's family does come into the picture, but instead they highlight how his new character wrecks havoc on his family life.Good chuckle humor is injected into this movie, often coming the acerbic duo of Sutherland and Kingsley. An exception is the overused and apparently gratuitous joke involving Ramirez's first name (Annibal, Annabelle, get it?). Also overdone was the constant harping by the duo about how powerful and cunning and intelligent Carlos is. In my opinion, during the final showdown, the payoff wasn't able to match the build-up.On the whole, the movie was enjoyable. I'm not a big action flick fan but this movie was more intelligent and engrossing than the average action movie and it maintained my attention throughout.My rating 9/10  "},{"Title":"An Over-looked Espionage Gem","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was over-shadowed by 'The Jackal' (Bruce Willis, Richard Gere) which was released the same year. Having seen both films, I can honestly say this is the superior film.Granted, the production value of 'The Jackal' was very good, it probably had a substantially bigger budget. However, 'The Assignment' is well written and has a fascinating story. Aiden Quinn is flawless in dual roles. Aiden Quinn and director Christian Duguay did a great job of establishing a deep and multi-layered relationship between the title character and his family. I particularly liked the ending.I was reminded of the Jack Ryan character in the Tom Clancy movies. Both are Naval officers thrown into unbelievably dangerous roles as they covertly work on behalf of National security. And yet, both Harrison Ford and Aidan Quinn reveal their respective characters as heros who manage to be both virile and gentle. They have a genuine tenderness and vulnerability in their relationships with their families. What I don't understand is how the opinions of all who have posted on this movie (myself included) can be so much more positive than the luke-warm reception the film has received. This is a movie that has enough complexity and subtlety that it remains compelling after multiple viewings. If you are a fan of espionage-genre films, I recommend 'The Assignment' enthusiastically.  "},{"Title":"Excellent flick, worth your time!!! 9/10","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the classic case of an excellent film being looked over by the American public simply due to the fact it didn't have Bruce Willis or Arnold Schwarzenneger as the lead man - Adrian Quinn does a better dual performance, thats right you heard it dual performance in this film than either of those  have ever pulled off in their careers!  Well anyway, now to the review... The Assignment is loosely based upon the story of Carlos the Jackal, a 1970's radical who terrorized Europe for years before finally being apprehended by French agents.  In this adaptation, a US Naval officer (Adrian Quinn) is on leave in Israel when he is apprehended by Mossad (Isreal's crack intelligence / counter-terrorism agency) and took in for questioning due to the fact he looks EXACTLY like the jackal (this is the one extremely cheesey part of the film, but trust me it doesn't detract from the great value of this film).  When it is discovered Mr. Ramirez is not the Jackal, however, he is recruited by a hardened CIA agent by the name of Jack Shaw (Donald Sutherland, who does his usual grizzled mysterious government authority figure routine but in a stupendous manner) who has spent his life hunting the Jackal, and the series of events which follow will captivate anyone who watches this film - it is chock full of great acting, without all the usual action film cliches and one-liners, and a great plot which will surprise anyone.  The three leading men - Quinn, Sutherland and Kingsley - carry this film much further than its modest budget would have allowed with anyone else filling their shoes.  Also kudos to the director and his staff, the camera angles and cinematography are top notch, especially in the action scenes. The Assignment is better than anyone renting it could ever expect, its a pity the film did fairly poorly in the box office, otherwise we might see a sequel to this stupendous espionage thriller. 9/10 stars, this reviewer HIGHLY recommends it to all potential viewers! "},{"Title":"An absorbing and intriguing thriller","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When I first heard about this back in 1997, over coffee with friends, I decided to check it out. The only problem was that it was on a small screen at one of my local cinema's.That didn't stop the enjoyment of seeing a simply great movie, with a top notch cast in Aidan Quinn, Donald Sutherland, and Ben Kingsley. The whole movie, kept me glued to my seat. I simply found no flaws in this great movie, I give it my highest recommendation to those who love thrillers. I am very proud to have this in my collection.10/10 ( I don't hand this out lightly).  "},{"Title":"An absolute cracker of a film.","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Picture the scene A bored student with an empty day ahead, A video shop with a special offer of 5 video for a week rentals. This ex-student usually just grabbed a pile of videos of dubious quality for the most arbitrary of reasons (The Turning anybody?). Occasionally the odd undiscovered gem did make it into his VCR - this being the case with this film. Everything about the film is good, but much more than this the parts all mesh to provide something all too rare - a cracking good film. Why this never got a UK cinema release is beyond me, especially when we consider the crap that we have to wade through at the multiplex week on week. Whilst I'll happily accept this isn't Oscar material (but neither was sodding Titanic - schmaltzy cgi-tinged bollocks) it is a an extremely enjoyable film. I was trying to think of a way to describe how best this film should be appreciated/accepted - The perfect film to watch while bonding with your Dad, after a coming home for the holidays, after a large Sunday lunch. "},{"Title":"The other side of Aidan Quinn!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I must say I didn't expect much about this movie, but it turned out not to be bad at all.  Most striking of course, was Aidan Quinn's performance.  I would never expect to see this fine actor as an action hero.  The great thing about it is that he really builds up his character (Annibal).  I mean, it was not like Mel Gibson or Bruce Willis would do it, he was sensitive and modest.  For example, he's really upset when he kills someone.  I also noticed that some clichés were avoided.  When Annibal gets his training, you would easily expect him to be a rebel and act like any average American would do in such a situation, ask what the f*** is going on and refusing to cooperate.  But Annibal is a professional marine officer, he doesn't give up and he tries not to lose his courage, in which he succeeds pretty well, except for a brief break-down on Christmas Eve, which I think was very realistic.  I'm glad that Aidan Quinn got this opportunity to show another side of him (in fact two, because he plays the villain as well), even although the film wasn't that successful.   "},{"Title":"See this movie","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent sleeper of a movie about the search for Carlos the international assassin. Am surprised this film didn't rake in $100-million-plus because it's much better than most films that do so. Rent it NOW. "}{"Title":"great for the high-minded action enthusiast...","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The acting is good, the action is good, and so is the plot.  If you like some good, fast entertainment with an air for authentic action scenes, not the Hollywood (looks great, but is totally ridiculous) kind, you're in for a special treat.  Just sit back and enjoy... "},{"Title":"A gripping thriller","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A very intelligent and exciting thriller that doesn't rely on action but on situation, which is all to rare these days. I would compare this film to The Day of the Jackal, another film about the pursuit of a dangerous international criminal. The acting across the board is superlative - Aidan Quinn has a tricky double role as the vicious terrorist Carlos and as the Navy man who impersonates him. Donald Sutherland plays the amoral CIA agent who hires him. Ben Kingsley plays the Israeli officer who assists in the plan. This is a very tense and effective film, and it's remarkable considering just how little action there is in it. The first half of the film is all set-up, as the Navy man prepares to impersonate Carlos. The second half is a breathless actioner, the action coming out of the characters and their situations, thus making it all the more gripping. A really tight film that shouldn't be overlooked. "},{"Title":"The film that Willis'The Jackal should have been...","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While The Jackal remake of the excellent Day of the Jackal has better esthetics and a boatload budget, this film nails the actual persona of Carlos down...Quinn excels as the Naval officer enlisted to impersonate the wiley Jackal to draw him out of hiding and, at the hands of Kingsley and Sutherland, turns himself inside out to do so.   Risking his family, his career and all that he believes in, he takes on the task, albeit utterly unwillingly.To say more would spoil it... this is an excellent film.3 1/2 Niro~Stars of 4 "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this action movie. The chase over the rooftops in Libya is as exciting as the car chase in Bullet. Quinn is terrific. Sutherland was even appealing for a change. I enjoy movies that seem to take place in various countries, not on a back lot in Hollywood. This is Mr. Quinn's finest performance I have seen.  "},{"Title":"You've Not Seen Nothing Like the MIGHTY QUINN!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay so I love Aidan Quinn's acting even with a bad script. This is not the case in The Assignment. As other viewers have said, this was a movie I stumbled upon on cable and got so into it I didn't want it to end. Take one Cuban American Navy Ofc.(Quinn)who is an upright, uptight soldier and family man. Add a crazed agent(Donald Sutherland) who is looking for the worlds most notorious terrorist and add a Ben Kingsley and you have The Assignment. Sutherland is a witness of the most notorious terrorist Carlos actions in a cafe on a lovely day where he is so profoundly rocked at this mans evil that his sole reason to live is to get this man as long as he draws breath.Take one soldier on a pass in Israel who is a dead ringer for this man and is beaten and held by Kingsley until they realize they have a plan. By taking on Carlos by being him, or being forever responsible for never helping rid the world of him, makes for a very heavy assignment and guilt trip. By not helping his country he is bound as a man and his military duty to chose wisely. So the training begins. Lets say Carlos training is right up there with the academy of arts and holocausts. When I say this intense and wonderfully casted,scripted and executed film rates the best, I am not understating it. All three actors could save almost any script..together this is a movie to be seen from frame one to credits. I am not into terrorism or movies about it but I got hooked! Bravo again to Aidan Quinn who for once plays a heavy that could hold up to any actor including Gary Oldman. Thats a compliment. Rent it and get lots of popcorn. Oh did I mention the sex?? It works better than Last Tango!and its educational.  "},{"Title":"intriguing,riveting","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  From the opening sequence to the final coda,this movie is well made,exciting,confounding,and action packed all rolled into one. The opening sequence telegraphed to me that this was no ordinary action-thriller.When Carlos the 'jackal',bombs a Parisian cafe by nonchalantly walking in past Jack Shaw, a top C.I.A operative we are sucked into the ensuing maelstrom,of the explosion and its aftermath.Annibal Ramirez, a U.S. naval officer,is picked up in Israel by the Mossad.However the Mossad are convinced they have the 'Jackal'.But things are not what they seem. Aidan Quinn, the Irish actor,plays a brilliant double role here with an equally strong supportive cast in Donald Sutherland as Shaw the C.I.A. man and Ben Kingsley as a Mossad officer. The plot is engrossing as Quinn takes on the assignment to expose the real 'Jackal' to the Russians.It's a set up but things go wrong. There is a beautiful set up scene towards the end of the movie where Shaw finally confronts the 'Jackal'.Its masterful. Not only does Duguay the director portray Quinn as transforming his character but includes the negative traits Quinn picks up from his 'Assignment'.I highly recommend this movie to any espionage or thriller fans.You will not be disappointed. a 10 star movie, for sure. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was an excellent movie - fast-paced, well-written and had an intriguing plot. The special effects were innovative, especially in the opening scene. The training segment got a bit silly but overall it was a tense movie.  "},{"Title":"Move over James Bond!","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I consider this movie to be the best spy thriller to date.  An incredible story line with great characters.  If you thought the Jackal was  good with Bruce Willis then you must see this movie.  This movie is probably one of the greatest sleepers yet.    "},{"Title":"Very good.","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very well made movie. We don't get a lot of them lately. Entertaining and not very predictable. "},{"Title":"Good!  A real sleeper thriller","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Aidan Quinn stars with Donald Sutherland and Ben Kingsley in The Assignment, a 1997 film directed by Christian Duguay. This film did not seem to be in theaters for very long, or to make any money. I suspect after a few days in the theater it went right to video.Quinn plays Lt. Cmdr. Annibal Ramirez, who is arrested and held by Mossad, who believe he is the assassin/terrorist Carlos the Jackal. Once his identification has been verified, he is allowed to leave. He is then visited by Jack Shaw (Donald Sutherland) who wants him to impersonate Carlos in order to convince the Russians that Carlos has come over to the CIA in exchange for money and a sweet deal, so that they will kill the real Carlos. It involves months of training, and finally, Annibal is ready. There are a few things he and his trainers hadn't counted on...one is that as time goes by, Annibal finds it harder and harder to escape Carlos' identity and reclaim himself.Really good movie, very suspenseful and exciting, with a wonderful performance by Aidan Quinn as both Carlos and Annibal. The movie really keeps you on the edge of your seat, especially the last scenes. Some excellent effects, locations, and car chases.Quinn I seem to remember came to fame in a film about AIDS, An Early Frost, and I also recall that Tina Sinatra was blown away by his bone structure and wanted him to play her dad in Sinatra The Music Was Just the Beginning. Movie stardom never really hit him, but he has had a prolific career playing a variety of roles, and is now a regular on Elementary. In The Assignment, he again reminds us of his excellence and versatility as an actor. Donald Sutherland does a great job as Annibal's handler, Shaw, who wants Carlos not only for the CIA's reasons but also because in France, Carlos slipped by him at a restaurant and bombed it.Ben Kingsley, another fantastic actor, hands in his usual well thought-out performance as a Mossad agent. The man who played Gandhi so magnificently I find is often in roles that are really beneath his abilities, which is a shame, though he certainly manages to keep busy. And there are some brilliant roles in there too.Highly recommended, a thrilling movie. "}{"Title":"Good lesser known action/thriller","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" &#x84;The Assignment is a good movie that reminds a bit a Bourne movie . There is quite a lot story here &#x96; more than in a typical action movie . The movie is based somewhat on real story. It's probably isn't 100 % true , yet it feels like it happened for real.The movie does look cheesy in some places and the special effects are outdated ( for example the hallucinations) . The movie could also be directed better by Christian Dugay . It takes a while for the audience before we really become interested in the story.Thankfully the screenplay is strong enough to give us interesting movie. It's based heavily on psychology . The whole training part is probably the best and most interesting part of the movie . It doesn't feel far-fetched and makes you really care about the character. Sure there are some action scenes and they are good too ( the chase scene is exciting) , but the main attraction is how our hero changes during the movie. There are some nice twists along the story , even if some of them are predictable.Aidan Quinn gives a great performance . He has a lot to play and he plays it really well . His transformation in a completely different person is very believable. I wonder why he didn't made a career . Ben Kingsley and Donald Sutherland give him a solid support . Kingsley role is relatively small , but important. Sutherland pretty much is also a main hero of the movie along Quinn.The Assignment is a bitter movie about world of spies and terrorists. It's entertaining and not shallow . It deserves a little more recognition. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great and realistic action thriller! 8","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Before watching it, I expected an average action movie without depth, a simple entertainment. Nevertheless, this movie is better than expected. It is really amusing and the characters are well developed. The plot is not original (in fact, I saw other two movies about the terrorist called The Jackal, which are very good, too). The director Christian Duguay, who also directed another decent action thriller titled The art of war, knew how to set a fluid and amusing pace which makes you pay attention to the movie during its entire duration (less than two hours, but not short). The cast is rather good. Both the protagonist and the antagonist roles is played by Aidan Quinn (yes, he plays the part of the bad and the bad guys the soldier assigned to hunt down the Jackal and the Jackal himself because they are supposed to be very alike phisically). Ben Kingsley plays another important role and is very correct. Maybe, the most interesting character is played by Donald Sutherland he plays the part of the CIA agent who trains and tells the protagonist to kill the Jackal even by blackmailing him. The reasons are never very clear, but we know that he is eager to catch the Jackal. The action scenes are realistic and well-made (specially, the ones of the training and the car chase). The movie has some violent intense scenes, like some showing how the protagonist gets ready to impersonate the Jackal in order to catch him. The rest of the cast does a decent job with no more special mentions. There is nothing relevant about the photography and the sound (it is simply right). In conclusion, the best things of the movie are the intensity of some scenes as well as its pace whereas the worse thing is that it has nothing else remarkable, like a very original plot, amazing action scenes, a beautiful photography, etc. All those who like realistic action movies and thrillers will surely enjoy The assignment. 8. "},{"Title":"Three Great Leading men in a gripping film!","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" How do you catch Carlos the Jackal? A Naval officer, CIA agent and a Mossad agent all work together to find out. See Day of the Jackal and The Jackal for alternative artistic impressions of the notorious terrorist, but see The Assignment for the best all around movie by far! The film is perhaps most notable for its harsh and honest look at the physical and mental training as well as personal sacrifices a spy must undertake in order to become superhuman. Look out for the scene near Israel's Dead Sea where the hero undergoes special training... fantastic to see these exercises displayed in a film starring 3 great actors (in 4 roles) who compliment each other without overshadowing each other, maybe one of the best spy films of the 1990s! "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I really liked this film. It was on one of the obscure digital channels and we happened to notice it in the schedules. The film is full of action and yet it is totally believable as it is based, I understand, on actual events. I have always much preferred films which are understated (notwithstanding the action this one is!) as opposed to those in the bang bang shoot shoot the hero never gets shot despite 50 men firing Kalashnikovs at him at point blank range variety, if you know what I mean. I would put this film in the same category as the Harry Palmer series; Spy Who Came in from the Cold variety etc. The performance were excellent from all the leads. Brilliant combination of Aidan Quinn, Donald Sutherland (always like his films)and Ben Kingsley. They always give such believable performances. I have always thought that Aidan Quinn has not received the recognition he deserves. He can play any part and never overacts a total natural. In Stakeout for example (not my favourite film by any means), which was essentially a black comedy, he exuded menace to the point of psychotic - brilliant. In the next film he is able to play a character for whom the audience has total sympathy. "},{"Title":"Overlooked!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Damn! Rock solid direction. Good use of unique camera angles, fades and crossovers. Great editing and last but not least good performances and a great script.. How come this is became a cable movie and not a big hit in the theaters? Considering the s*** we see WB, Paramount and all the other major studios are spitting out, it´s amazing this movie wasn´t backed by a big promotional campaign. Christian Duguay (I)who directed this gem will hopefully get his big break soon, rather than later. Interesting to note that he also served as his own Director of photography on this one. Much like Soderbergh does. Hmm? I see a pattern here.. Best movie I have caught on TV for a long, long time... "},{"Title":"Better than surprisingly good.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Two great actors (Ben Kingsley, Donald Sutherland) and one really good one (Aidan Quinn) give superb performances in this tight as a string thriller involving spies, lies, and the one and only CARLOS.CIA man Jack Shaw (Sutherland) masterminds a plot to get Carlos, once and for all,  when he stumbles upon Annabel Ramirez (Quinn) a Navy officer and a dead ringer for the Jackal.Absolutely non-stop action and suspense, this thriller never telegraphs its punches, twisting and turning over and over.Highest recommendation.  "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better....","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" So once again do we have The Jackal  as the main theme of a movie. Only this time it is the actual terrorist who is the center of attraction.A movie which tries hard to weave the elements of fact and fiction together but fails to do so convincingly.The story revolves around the life of a Naval Officer from the U.S. who as luck would have it, looks strikingly similar to The Jackal.With this the story moves on as various international intelligence agencies indulge in a game of cat and mouse to do their bit.With slightly type-cast acting and characterisation , not to mention the fantastically sketched out plot the movie somehow doesn't dissolve in the tummy.On the whole the movie has many bright spots in terms of the story and technical aspects but fails to come across as a superb thriller due to hastened plot progression and disproportionate reel allocation to relatively less important and insignificant features of the storyline. "},{"Title":"A rather good action thriller, but...","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A rather good action thriller, but I would have preferred if it was a little more realistic. They tried in some places to go for it, but not all the way (probably for commercial reasons). It's a pity really, since this is a well made movie, but one that had the potential to be much more. If they had made it more realistic, and by that I mean with less James Bond-like shoot-outs, less beautiful women, less funny communists, etc... this motion picture could have been excellent. They just had to use more of the truth and they would have made something much better. The screenplay does cunningly use small parts of the truth in constructing the fiction that this film really is, but this is not nearly enough. I do not believe that they should have made a documentary, but a little less 'artistic creativity' would have actually been 'more' in this case.In other, the camera and sound are also not exceptional which further detracts from the viewing pleasure. All in all, an above average movie, but nothing more. "},{"Title":"Starts promisingly,but is unforgivably confusing.","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" With an opening hommaged from A Touch of EvilI had high hopes of The Assignment,but gradually they faded and I settled for time passer.I lost track of when Aidan Quinn was playing a Naval Officer,a terrorist or a Naval Officer playing a terrorist.I couldn't see the point of the fairly graphic sex scenes - apart from the obvious one.We are told Quinn will have to learn how Carlos makes love to his mistresses - do we really need to see this being demonstrated at inordinate length? And why does it take so damn long to recruit him?We know he will take the job in the end for heaven's sake................... Having said that,there are some fun moments in this movie,mostly concerning uber ham Donald Sutherland alternately smiling,snarling and sneering at Quinn,sometimes within the same sentence.He isn't really trying but he still manages to dominate the movie. Ben Kingsley looks soulful,makes a few half - hearted Jewish quips just in case we forget he's in Mossad and takes a bullet for Quinn before dying with a half smile on his lips - a neat trick if you pull it off. None of the women have to do much apart from submitting to Mr Quinn in his various personae,which they do - it must be said - in different degrees of poor grace,the poor dears. For tackling a subject usually dealt with by blockbusters the producers are to be commended for refraining from budget - busting FX and concentrating more on character,it's just a pity the characters weren't a little bit more believable. In today's world awash with suicide bombers and electronic surveillance, old -style independent terrorists like Carlos are an endangered species,you knew where you were with his ilk - throw enough money at them and bob's your uncle.Now nobody seems to care whether they live or die the ball game has changed just a little bit.If I looked an awful lot like Osama bin Laden I might be afraid of being shot on sight but I don't think there'd be much point in Donald Sutherland trying to recruit me. "},{"Title":"Pretty good........I suppose.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and thought it was decent. It has it's moments I guess you would say. Some of the scenes with the special ops forces were cool, and some of the location shots were very authentic. I won't be putting this movie in my DVD collection but it is fair enough to recommend for renting. I guess nothing set the movie at another level compared to others of the same genre. The action is good, the acting is decent, the women are extremely seductive and exotic in my opinion, and the story is pretty interesting. 7 out of ten  "}{"Title":"The man with Carlos' face.","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** A bit overcomplicated and confusing spy thriller involving US Navy Lt. Commander Cuban born Annibal Ramirez, Adian Quinn, who's recruited with a little bit of arm twisting by the CIA and Israeli Mossad to play the part of Carlos the Jackel in that Annibal is the spitting image of the notorious assassin. Behind all this cloak and dagger stuff is Paris CIA Director Jack Shaw, Donald Southerland, who has it in Carlos for strictly personal reasons! That's when back in September 1974 Carlos, disguised as a 1960's type of hippie, slipped right through his fingers and ended up blowing up a Paris café with Shaw, who survived the blast, being in it!Shaw with the help of Mossad Agent Amos,Ben Kingley, teach Ramirez all about Carlos' quirks and habits as well as his style, rough to the point of almost killing his partner, of lovemaking and send him out to Libya in a plot to have him make his backers, the Soviet KGB, think that he's about to turn on them and join the other side The USA and its Western allies! This all has Ramirez end up killing a number of French Secret Agents, who raided his love nest, who mistakenly think that he's Carlos. Carlos himself in thinking he's being set up has one of his henchman Japanese assassin Koj, Von Flores, travel to Paris to knock off his girlfriend Agnieska, Liliana Komorowaka, who mistook Ramirez for himself whom Carlos feels betrayed him to the French Secret Service. Ramirez together with Shaw and Amos who just happened to be in Paris at the time of Agnieska's murder is later confronted by Koj who realizes, by Ramirez not knowing the right code word, that he isn't Carlos who then takes him, with a gun pointed in his gut, to a airport mens-room in order to knock him off! It's then that Amos comes to Ramirez's rescue by not only taking out the surprised Koj but taking a bullet or two for him at the same time!***MAJOR SPOILERS*** Meamwhile the KGB smells a rat in Carlos in him suspected of working for American intelligence,the CIA, and raid his pad outside East Berlin in order to take him in for questioning. This lead to a free for all shootout at Carlos', who was buff naked at the time, love pad where he's later run down by Ramirez who together with his boss Shaw were outside watching the whole spectacle. With both Carlos & Ramirez slugging it out Shaw not knowing which is which ends up shooting and seriously wounding the wrong man, Ramirez, with Carlos, now with his clothes on, getting away! The film ends in a confusing note with Ramirez now fully recovered from his wounds back in the states reunited with his wife and young son and Carlos now a man not only without a country but wanted by his former employers the KGB who've got a 50 million dollar or ruble contract out on him. We've still got a big surprise coming at the end the movie that's not at all lacking in surprises but by the time it hits us were just too numb or punch-drunk,in all the surprises we've already seen, to both notice or appreciate it! "},{"Title":"I'm not the madam, kid. I'm just one of the whores, just like you.","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The only photo that exists of Carlos the Jackals is a grainy one taken a half mile away. Lt. Cmdr. Annibal Ramirez (Aidan Quinn) looks like the man in the photo. and Jack Shaw, C.I.A (Donald Sutherland) wants him to set a trap.Ramirez becomes Carlos with the help of Shaw and Mossad agent Amos (Ben Kingsley). He goes about screwing Carlos' women (Céline Bonnier & Liliana Komorowska), and he doesn't attract Carlos, but a whole lot of people who want to kill him thinking he is Carlos. What a job! This film is one of the better action thrillers as it is not a star vehicle, but a great group of actors who create a believable story.And, I may add, gives us pause at the end. "},{"Title":"Clichéd and Convoluted","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A naval officer is recruited to impersonate an infamous terrorist for whom he is a dead ringer. The film is well-paced and has plenty of action, but the plot is clichéd (as are the characters) and somewhat convoluted (including an ambiguous ending) - not to mention far-fetched. It is well acted by Quinn in the dual role of hero and terrorist, Sutherland as a CIA agent, and Kingsley as an Israeli terrorism expert. It is hard to take any of it seriously, particularly the central premise of two unrelated men looking and sounding exactly alike (they even have the same haircut!). It plays like a TV movie, perhaps not surprising, given director Duguay's background. "},{"Title":"A good thriller copied from a Bollywood flick!","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie undoubtedly is a copy of Don, BOllywood flick starring Amitabh Bachhan released in 1978.Apart from that it is a great movie, in fact far better than the Bollywood version. Aidal Quinn might not have matched Mr. Bachhans performance but the movie is better paced. From the Box Office point of view, I think that this movie was tailor made for Tom Cruise. With such a a good story it would have rocked the box office.Know what guys Bollywood in fact this year has remade the earlier version by the same title, DON and it is better and stylish than the both the English and the Hindi versions that came before it. "},{"Title":"the opening shot","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Who decided to have two kids URINATING ON THE TITLE OF THE FILM? WHY!? I genuinely don't understand why they did that. That first ridiculous oversight paved the way for the poorest film i've ever seen. Every performance was sub average, many of the scenes were unbelievable and corny, the action was totally cheesy, the storyline was flimsy and hilarious and the script made me want to cry several times. I'm in awe that so many people actually liked this film, and it sickens me to think that there is an audience stupid enough to fall for this tripe. I hated the main character. Oh, and two unknown kids URINATE ON THE TITLE OF THE FILM. Classic. "},{"Title":"Weak throughout","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you like well developed characters, then this one is NOT for you.  None of them manage to pull off what they are meant to portray and the most enjoyable aspect were some of the nude scenes which should be a (brief) feast for the eye for both sexes alike.Sutherland's voice is great as always but the movie does not manage to put the viewer in touch with the real Carlos.Most disappointing is the yawning predictability (no surprises) of what is meant to be a spy thriller.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  silly with great acting","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm an action movie kind of guy. And I've recently been renting a lot of Ben Kingsley films. So I came into The Assignment with a good attitude.Unfortunately, while it was well executed and well acted, the pace dragged a little and some of the plot twists nonsensical. Most of the film is build-up rather than action. Worse than Die Hard 3, about the same as The Bourne Identity.Who should see this film-- action movie buffs, on a rainy day with nothing better to do-- Ben Kingsley fans (but see Death and the Maiden first)I'll give The Assignment an OK, nothing special 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Let down by being unrealistic and predictable","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe anyone found the twists in this movie surprising, as it's formulaic and is full of clicheed elements. It's quite tense at times, though, so it's still worth seeing.Film smartarses are encouraged to call for stunts, effects, or details before they happen. e.g. In one car chase, how/where will the pursuer's car flip, and will it explode after it lands?* After you've called half a dozen such things, and been right about them, you'll be writing the rest of this commentary, I've said enough.Phil* of course it does, all cars explode when flipped, didn't you know that? "},{"Title":"What's up Ben?","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Kingsley is a classically trained actor, and a damn good one at that. This only serves to raise the questionWhat is he doing making crap like this?You'd expect a film about a Carlos the Jackal lookalike who is being used to track him down to feature a perennial B grade actor such as Donald Sutherland, who never was up to the mark and always played the same character film after film, but this really is below Kingsley.One would hope that as he grows older that he becomes more discerning than making nonsense like this. "},{"Title":"Some very powerful and effective material, but the plot is an unorganized mess. **1/2 out of ****","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  THE ASSIGNMENT (1997) **1/2Starring Aidan Quinn, Donald Sutherland, Ben Kingsley, Céline Bonnier, and Claudia Ferri Director Christian Duguay   Running time115 minutes   Rated R (for violence, language, sexuality & nudity) By Blake French 	Christian Duguay's suspense thriller, The Assignment, covers some very serious material--but at the same time offers one of the most stubbornly silly plots I have ever encountered in a mainstream film. There is indeed some very intense, thought-provoking frosting as the topping, but the plot,as the cake itself, is a soggy mess.	The film stars Aidan Quinn in a juicy dual role, playing a United States Naval Officer named Annibal Ramirez, and the antagonist, the mysterious and notorious but impossible to catch terrorist named Carlos. The two characters are from different worlds, but for some reason, they look exactly alike. Therefore, when touring Israel, Annibal is mistaken for Carlos, and is captured, beaten, and confronted by the concealed and powerful Amos (Ben Kingsley), who holds him in contempt for until his followers discover that Annibal isn't who they think he is.	This scene triggers the reactions for the rest of the story.  A CIA agent, Henry Fields, (Donald Sutherland) has exerted non-stop efforts to capture and kill Carlos for so many years, it has turned into an obsession for him. Amos works with Fields in efforts to convince Ramirez that he is the only person in the world that can stop the deadly terrorist. But Ramirez is a family man, not interested in leaving his house to become a counter-terrorist. Fields and Amos use varied techniques to persuade Ramirez into buying into the assignment He will go through a series of  training sessions that will allow him to impersonate Carlos. They will then use him to make his sponsors believe that he is traitorous, presumably resulting in his death. 	Why is Ramirez the only person in the entire world that can stop the villain again? Because they look alike? Why do they share such similarities in appearance? Correct me if I am wrong, but I don't believe the film ever mentioned anything about Ramirez and Carlos being twins separated at birth. Maybe I am the problem, but I was never convinced of why the government was only interested in this one particular man to do their dirty work. The filmmakers spend much precious time on developing Ramirez into a warrior, but such little on the reasoning behind their motives. The characters also spend little time communicating with each other; for once I desired a little subtext in the material, for this movie had such little dialogue, I was starved for a decent conversation.	The film's entire first act was so ridiculous it's almost funny. Mainly due to the fact that it isn't convincing, a major factor needed for movies like The Assignment.  It takes a stab blackmail, sorrow, disbelief and family in order to give us a logical explanation of the character's motives. There are several methods director Christian Duguay could have used to portray these people accurately, and he puts forth an honest effort, too bad that none of his ideas work. 	Although the film's plot is strong and deep, containing elements of believability and realism, it is also unorganized. Some of the individual scenes on their own are effective, like the sequences featuring Ramirez going through strict training to become an impersonator of Carlos, and where Ramirez is chased through the twisting allies and backdoors of Israel. And there is a relative through-line present. Thus the scenes do relate to each other. So, guess the plot isn't a complete failure.  In general, though, they don't seem to flow very smoothly. 	There are many great qualities about The Assignment, and many first rate performances as well. The setting development is bold and clear. It provides an accurate and ideal place for these characters to activate in. The development and clearness of the Aidan Quinn character is also right on the money. I have always been a fan of Quinn, and have enjoyed many of his performances throughout his career. However, even he and strong supporting performances by Donald Sutherland, Ben Kingsley, and Céline Bonnier can't save this movie from its overall presentation in an unorderly manor.	My deepest apologies go out to you, dead reader ,because due to technical difficulties, I was unable to screen the last thirty minutes of The Assignment, and therefore can't make a complete nor fair judgment on the third act. Add to this the fact that recommending this film is a close call on my part, and that a superb finale may have brought the movie up on my scale the last half star. I strongly suggest that you read another review or two pertaining to this movie, before you make a decision on whether or not to see this movie. But for what I did view, and that is most of the movie, I can't give anything but a marginal thumbs down to.  But please don't let me hold you back from getting a second opinion. Brought to you by Trimark Films.  "}]