[{"Title":"Extraordinary Film","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The most intense and powerful film I have seen in years. There have been other films before that delved into the Vietnam Vet but nothing compared to this emotionally heartwrenching film, as a typical American suburban family, circa 1972, comes apart at the seams, revealing the scars that Vietnam has left on our all of our collective souls. The cast is A++++ fantastic with all four actors(with Kathy Bates a stand-out) giving riveting performances. What is wonderful about this film is that you take no sides, but understand all four characters and empathize with them, even though all four have divergent viewpoints and needs. There are scenes in here that are so powerful as family secrets and feelings are revealed(such as the confrontation between son and mother) that will have you emotionally drained and in tears of anguish. I actually cried in this film, something I rarely do. The shocking end is a stunner! A much overlooked film that should be seen. I rate this 1996 film a 10/10 a superlative piece. Highly recommended especially in this day and age with again, our country embroiled in a hideous war, our headlines shouting of atrocities and again, our young men and women returning with deep psychological scars, with their deep pain of deeds done in the line of honor. A must see film. "},{"Title":"Extremely powerful film!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I caught this movie on TV yesterday.  I had a certain curiosity about it, being that it was directed by Emilio Estevez and starring him and his real-life Dad, Martin Sheen.  I love to see a movie about a father-son relationship that involves a real-life father and son.  Naturally, there's an instant chemistry between Sheen and Estevez, and their scenes of conflict are even more intense, knowing that they're actually related.  Of course, it helps that the two of them are both terrific actors.  I've seen Martin Sheen in intense roles before, but I think this is Emilio's most intense role--being that I mostly recall him from the Mighty Ducks series--and I was very impressed.  Talent REALLY does run in that family.  And Kathy Bates steals the movie in an Oscar-worthy performance.  She tugged at my heartstrings with every word of dialogue.  Kimberly Williams--the beautiful actress from the Father of the Bride movies--is also very good, holding her own among a group of talented veteran actors.  The movie is a bit stagey, with dialogue that's obviously geared for the stage, but that didn't bother me.  This is not meant to be an action movie; this is a character study.  And for a film that's based on a play, it never gets too claustrophobic.  When Emilio's character, Jeremy, reminisces to his days in Vietnam, we actually see his harrowing memories brought to life. The film is extremely powerful and realistic, without being sentimental.  At the end, I expected all the conflicts to be resolved and the family would become hunky-dory, but that's not how it turned out.  The ending made me cry, without resorting to standard Hollywood melodrama.  That proves reality is much more gripping than anything Hollywood can conjure up. If you're in the mood for a beautiful, powerful drama with extremely wonderful performances that will knock your socks off...please check out this underrated gem.  Hopefully, one day Martin and Emilio will unite with Charlie, and they will all make a great film together. My score  9 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was just lucky I found this movie.  I've been taking advantage of Walmart's $5.50 DVDs, because I watch a lot of movies (and very seldom watch television). I graduated from high school in 1968 - so I have family and many friends who served in Vietnam.  This movie really illustrates the pain I've seen in my friends in dealing with what happened to them over there. I wish more people would see this movie - I think maybe more people could understand what happened to our Vietnam vets by watching these excellent actors in the portrayal of one family damaged by that war. The story felt realistic - it isn't mushy, but made me feel what they were going through. I think it helped that Martin Sheen and Emilio Estevez were playing father and son - it made their relationship more believable, "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not being a movie aficionado, I am not familiar with the names of leading Directors, Scriptwriters, Producers and the like, but I can tell an outstanding movie when I see one.The makers of this fine movie could well be now at the top of their fields, or may well get there pretty soon. I know that the actors are already there.It takes talent closer to genius to show with such realism how a national tragedy like Vietnam has impacted the everyday life of a typically average American family, and make us see at close range why there are so many homeless Vietnam veterans.Without getting into gratuitous scenes of gore and bloodshed, it makes us understand why so many youg men had flashbacks of what they had been thru.The dialog is particularly gripping, and gives us an idea of what went on in so many families in the aftermath of Vietnam.I wish there were more good movies like this one, not just about Vietnam, but about other social conditions as well.  "},{"Title":"Great Family Drama","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The War at Home was a labor of love for director/star Emilio Estevez, and the care he took with this story is evident on screen.Adapted for the screen by original playwright James Duff, the film focuses on Jeremy Collier (Emilio Estevez), a veteran of the Vietnam War who is deeply scarred by his experiences. Jeremy's family can't understand his pain or deal with his erratic behavior. On Thanksgiving Day, each family member reaches their breaking point.The cast is just about perfect. They look, sound, and act, like a family; albeit one that is struggling mightily. Real-life father and son Estevez and Martin Sheen are great opposite one another (look for Estevez's sister Renee and daughter Paloma in small roles). Kimberly Williams also does quite well as Jeremy's sister Karen, and the amazing Kathy Bates virtually inhabits Jeremy's mother Maurine.One of the most striking things about The War at Home is the domesticity of it all - a real sense of a family trying to keep up appearances - which is so well-established that the film's explosive finale is all the more shocking. This is a different and very effective presentation of a Vietnam veteran's experiences. Don't hesitate to check out this movie, which should have received more attention back when it was released. "},{"Title":"A powerful movie.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen only a few films which I thought were powerful. The War at Home is at the top of the list. Emilio Estevez (The Breakfast Club, Young Guns) stars as a Vietnam vet who just recently returned home. He is haunted by his memories. Added to this is a family that can't understand why he doesn't just forget about it and continue living. Besides this they each have their own problems which they sort of take out on him to add to his grief. His mom played by Kathy Bates (Misery, Dolores Claiborne) is always trying to be extra cheerful, but she doesn't understand why he doesn't want to talk to her or play the piano. His dad played by Estevez's real life dad Martin Sheen (The American President, Wall Street) is very dominant demanding that everyone stay by his rules in his house. Finally his younger sister played by Kimberly Williams (Father of the Bride 1 & 2) doesn't see what the big deal about Vietnam was and doesn't like spending time with the family. All of this pushes Estevez farther and farther towards losing it. Kimberly Williams is good as the sister. Kathy Bates and Martin Sheen are both excellent as the parents. Finally Emilio Estevez gives an extremely powerful performance that should have received a lot more attention and praise. This film was great. It was one of the best movies I've seen in a while, which makes me wonder why it didn't get much of a release. I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"No one understands the pain of Vietnam unless....","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The one thing that struck me most about this simple movie was how the characters could not relate to the feelings that the principal character Jeremy felt. An isolation, a feeling of despair, a sudden irrational fear of circumstances, a guilt feeling of Why me? This movie was not a financial success and could not be. It gives an all too true expression of the mixed psychological emotions felt by those who know the Nam experience. My one thought for you is to watch this movie and try to understand these feelings that too many of us experience in life and our dreams continually. Perhaps this can help heal us all.The cast is beautiful and I was quite shocked to learn that Martin Sheen's son had directed it. The biggest shock to watching this movie is to learn that it is not entertaining. That is not a condemnation but rather a description. The only unreal part were the scenes of war.  "},{"Title":"Rebel with a cause","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The connection with James Dean?In a short plan ,we see Emilio Estevez toying with a teddy bear(remember the first scene of Ray's rebel without a cause).Moreover,the main conflict is Estevez versus Sheen,father against son,as in East of Eden.The soldier has come home,and nobody has been able to communicate with him, even his sister (a psychology student,what a derision).The mother,a crude matron (a superb Kathy Bates),gets bogged down in nougatine ,she 's not able to understand that her values (religion,family) have become a thing of the past,specially for someone like his son whose innocence was betrayed. The father ,an irresolute man ,under his wife's thumb,although he tries hard to play the macho,wanted to make up for the mediocrity of his life .So he saved his honor by forcing his son to do his duty.The scene in which Estevez's hatred for his father explodes is very intense.The actor-director gives a restrained performance,interiorized,as Lee Strasberg's students used to do,and his final burst of anger is increased tenfold so. "},{"Title":"What a surprise!","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Emilio Estevez actually directed a good movie--who woulda thought?  I sat through two previous films Estevez directed--Wisdom (with then girlfriend Demi Moore) and Men at Work (with brother Charlie Sheen).  They are lousy films---badly acted, directed, stupid and offensive. Estevez is a good actor but lousy as a director. I turned this on in pure curiousity--it has a great cast and I had nothing else to do.  Damned if it didn't pull me in.It concerns Estevez coming home from Vietnam permanently scarred by what happened over there.  His parents (Kathy Bates, Martin Sheen) and sister (Kimberly Williams) try to reach him but can't.  Something in Vietnam has affected him deeply...and he's about to explode...A bit overlong but still very good.  A lot of the material is familar but the cast is so good that they make it seem new.  Estevez is good,  Sheen is terrific (and Estevezs' real life father), Williams is touching and Bates is just extraordinary--trying to hold the family together.  It all leads up to a powerful ending which REALLY surprised me.Well worth catching. "},{"Title":"Excellent and worth watching again","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is on cable sporadically, and I never really watched it, thinking it would be similar to the Bruce Willis film Ïn America, with the usual trite story about American freedom, etc. But it was not; it was so much more!.Of course, Martin Sheen is excellent; (I have never seen him in a movie I haven't loved, even if the script is bad, because he is so talented). Kathy Bates is the overbearing mom, and does a great job. The real surprise is Emilio Estevez, who has not always been in the greatest films, but also directed this movie. Please don't stereotype him from the Breakfast Club movie; he is so much better in this, and I wish he would do more non-commercial, atypical Hollywood movies.The film is realistic, as we see Emilio home from Vietnam, during Thanksgiving. Kimberly Williams is passable as the sister, who feels she is disgraced and embarrassed by the returning soldier, her brother; he is quite alienated from the family, and, especially at this time in US history, this story is VERY relevant.I learned a great deal about post-traumatic stress, and you will genuinely empathize with this character; This is not a violent, journalistic portrayal, like Platoon for example, it is more of a character study, which leaves us even more intrigued and concerned about the effects of war, especially when one considers the young age of the soldiers who are victims. With today's violence, it is rare that a movie causes one to genuinely feel sad, and shed a tear; this does it, and deserves recognition. "}{"Title":"In praise of a well written and acted film.","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film easily rivals the emotional strength, the dramatic impact and the top-notch performances of 12 Angry Men. I rented it on a whim and was amazed that I had not heard of it before.I do not know if this was Emilio Estevez's directorial debut, but the pacing, the interplay and development of the characters as well as the some clever camera work surrounding the character Estevez plays all suggest a natural eye.The interplay between Martin and Emilio contains the same wonderful chemistry we saw in Wall Street with Martin and Charlie. Kathy Bates is wonderful in her characters subtle desperation and escapism; a variation on her characters in At Play In The Fields Of The Lord. She is irritating and yet one can empathize with her at the same time.There are some moments where I feel the plot slows a touch and the moments between Estevez and his ex-girlfriend almost seem written for another film, Estevez comes off as another character all together. But those are minor complaints.This film must be based on a true story or must have been written by someone who lived these experiences. I rate it 8 out of a difficult 10. "},{"Title":" A powerful movie with stunning performances by all","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Estevez, Martin Sheen and Kathy Bates are superb in this portrayal of a Vietnam vet home from the war but still haunted by it. Bates plays a clueless mother who just wants the family to be a family. Sheen is terrific as the father who tries to understand what his son is going through but is too wrapped up in his principles to really empathize. The setting is Thanksgiving Day and the relatives are coming for dinner. Estevez, who plays the returning vet, wants no part of family tradition and insists on wearing his combat fatigues to dinner, explaining This is what I wore last Thanksgiving. The bickering and family arguments are priceless, particularly the peanut brittle crisis, but the ending is both gripping and terrifying. It has to be seen to be appreciated.Overall, one of the best movies I've ever seen.   "},{"Title":"A Dramatic Indie Classic","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Vietnam War era is certainly far before my time, but it has always interested me, and I have seen many films about it. All of the others I'd seen had dealt strictly with the front-line of battle. When I read a description of The War At Home, I found the concept intriguing. No Vietnam War movie I'd ever heard of talked about what happens to a soldier once the fighting is over with. One night, while flipping through channels, the movie aired on The Sundance Channel. I set down the remote and settled back to watch it. I did not move from my seat during the entire two hours; it's one of those movies that keeps you very interested because there is no way to predict what is going to happen next. This movie made me a huge fan of Emilio Estevez. I had enjoyed him very much as Billy the Kid in the Young Guns movies, but I never saw anything he did afterward. Emilio proved to be very talented at writing and directing as well as acting. The pacing of the movie is done extremely well. I am hard-pressed to think of a point where it drags. What amazes me is that it didn't get an Oscar or any real recognition when it came out. It is a dramatic story about parents trying to cope with the fact that their son is not who he used to be and probably will never be as they remembered him again. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Great for scenes depicting family dynamics","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie has a very deep look at the relationships between a mother who was raised in a Christian environment and learned that appearance is everything. She and her son, who just recently returned from Vietnam collide in some very tense issues. The relationship has no connections intimately and is a great accurate portrayal of what it is like to live with someone who is false and only looks at the surface of issues. Kathy Bates does an excellent job of portraying a woman of false faith who is either oblivious to her cruelty, forgetful or just doesn't want to be confronted. Jeremy's wrath is never feared and it leads to a very disturbing conflict between him and his feelings about his fathers love for him. This is a very honest look at some family dynamics after a traumatic event leads one to despair. "},{"Title":"In praise of a well written and acted film.","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film easily rivals the emotional strength, the dramatic impact and the top-notch performances of 12 Angry Men. I rented it on a whim and was amazed that I had not heard of it before.I do not know if this was Emilio Estevez's directorial debut, but the pacing, the interplay and development of the characters as well as  some clever camera work surrounding the character Estevez plays all suggest a natural eye.The interplay between Martin and Emilio contains the same wonderful chemistry we saw in Wall Street with Martin and Charlie. Kathy Bates is wonderful in her characters subtle desperation and escapism; a variation on her character in At Play In The Fields Of The Lord. She is irritating and yet one can empathize with her at the same time.There are some moments where I feel the plot slows a touch and the moments between Estevez and his ex-girlfriend almost seem written for another film, Estevez comes off as another character all together. But those are minor complaints.This film must be based on a true story or must have been written by someone who lived these experiences. I rate it 8 out of a difficult 10. "},{"Title":"A fine effort","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Emilio Estevez takes the wonderful play HOMEFRONT and makes it into an engaging movie.THE WAR AT HOME has an exceptionally strong cast -- all seemingly digging deep into their characters.  The acting here is TOP NOTCH!Credit must also go to director Emilio Estevez.  The visual transitions between past and present were ultra smooth.  The sound effects during the battle scenes were chilling and effectively added to the tension.Remove all of the Viet Nam elements from the story, and still left would be interesting characters wrestling with the good and bad of the full range of family dynamics.  (A viewer might see this point more clearly by keeping in mind the discovering the old photo scene from the beginning as the rest of the movie is watched).As a movie, I found THE WAR AT HOME to be more direct and to the point than BORN ON THE 4TH OF JULY.  A fine effort -- almost a 10. "},{"Title":"Powerful and disturbing","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had never heard of this film and only got it because I am a Martin Sheen fan. Now I am stunned as to why it did not receive the praise and recognition that it truly deserves. The four characters all make you feel for them, the father trying to assert his authority, the mother still clinging to traditional family values and both trying to keep up appearances despite the total fragmentation of their family, the daughter wanting her own life and the son haunted by his experiences in Vietnam. One felt that this was a scenario that must have been played out in thousands of 'ordinary' families after Vietnam. Emilio Estevez as Jeremy was superb - totally unhinged by his war experience which none of his family could relate to. The screen chemistry between him and his real-life father Martin Sheen was amazing. And there were times when Emilio's anguished face was so like Martin's in Apocalypse Now. I feel sure that just as Martin has counted Apocalype as one of his best films, Emilio will count this one as one of his best too. The scene with the gun was totally mind-blowing, as all the emotions were there on the family's faces. Brilliant acting by Estevez, Sheen and Kathy Bates. I watched the film for the first time last night - and today the lead story in the news was about a Gulf War veteran who had shot several members of his family. How many more young men are going to have their lives destroyed by war? "},{"Title":"A truly explosive film","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just watched this movie for the first time, I can't believe I have never seen it before!First of all, A completely amazing cast! Martin Sheen, Kathy Bates, Kimberly Williams & Emilio Estevez everyone fit their characters to perfection! Emilio Estevez should have won awards for directing and his superb performance!I love Emilio Estevez he is brilliant! This was truly one of the best movies I have ever seen! Emilio is completely underrated in all his work he has a overwhelming personality that comes through so perfectly on film. I have been a huge fan of his since Wisdom and he just keeps improving with time. I can't wait to see what he does next. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An under-appreciated, unseen gem. Estevez does a remarkable job of illustrating in poignant, heartbreaking fashion, the tension that arises between a son who's been to hell and back, and his parents, who can't begin to understand the emotional scarring left behind. It's not unlike Born on the Fourth of July, in that it deals with a soldiers' emotional and mental breakdown after serving in Vietnam, but while that one focused more on the politics of post-Vietnam (anti-war speeches, etc.), this one deals with a much more personal topic Family. One man's struggle to return to normalcy after a life-altering experience, and his parents' failure to see the change that has occurred.Estevez delivers a smoldering performance as Jeremy Collier. You can sense the pain and frustration bubbling beneath surface. There to match him inch for inch is his real-life father, Martin Sheen. It's a trip watching these two act off of each other, as you get the sense that they're constantly trying to one-up one another. It's like the presence of each other inspired the pair to do their best, and their performances triumph because of it.Recommended to anyone who appreciates solid acting, writing and directing. And to any Vietnam war buff. ****/***** (8/10) "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is powerful. I watched this movie at 300 am and I was suppose to be at work at 600 am, needless to say I was late to work. I could not bring myself to get up off my bed to go to work. This is the most powerful movie that I have seen in a long time. And that made me cry and feel the pain of the family. I think Emilo did a wonderful job of directing this film. I agree with the previous comments from other views that this is the only movie that I have seen that has brought the war home and showed what a family had to go through, what a veteran went through. It is almost heart breaking to think that back then people just thought you could come home from a life changing experience and be the same person you were before you left. Kathy Bates reminded me of my mother in a way. I believe she really showed how women felt and acted back then. I am surprised that this film wasn't up for more awards. "}{"Title":"Good ''after Viet'' movie","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not for those adrenaline maniacs etc It's a good movie, looking at after war, psychical problem, from the other point of view. Emilio Estevez is great as a young man, haunted by the demons of Vietnam war, causing problem in family. Marin Sheen is also good as a conservative father.It all comes down to the problem how to deal with the past, with whomEmilion Estevez's character can't seem to deal, and Martin Sheen's character don't want do deal with.Protective mother looks at this problem with warm , and open heart but with her mind closed for the obvious reasons. "},{"Title":"No one understands the pain of Vietnam unless....","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The one thing that struck me most about this simple movie was how the characters could not relate to the feelings that the principal character Jeremy felt. An isolation, a feeling of despair, a sudden irrational fear of circumstances, a guilt of why me. This movie was not a financial success and could not be. It gives a too true expression of the mixed psychological emotions felt by those who know. My one thought for you is to watch this movie and try to understand these feelings that too many of us experience in life and our dreams continually.The cast is beautiful and I was quite shocked to learn that Martin Sheen's son had directed it. The biggest shock to watching this movie is to learn that it is not entertaining. That is not a condemnation but rather a description. The only unreal part were the scenes of war.  "},{"Title":"War at Home is a good way to describe the aftermath that war leaves in its wake.","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is with out a doubt just as riviting as all the other Sheen Vietnam Movies, and deals with war and its aftermath on the Human Psyche closer to home and not just overthere... Looking closer at this film one has to wonder is this a Vietnam thing or do all combat veterans harbor these feelings, changed for life? The truth is what you may expect but it was the Vietnam Veteran Experience that brought post traumatic stress of the combat vet to the fore-front, made it an issue, and did not allow the Government to repress the true Evils of War, the damaged man who survived... Why did the Vietnam Experience do this might be a good topic for another sheen true story in which I have to say they excelled on, maybe they should stick to true or semi true life material, they are so good at it... I was flipping the channels and had this movie with two others with PIP going, and within 5 minutes I totally forgot the two others.... I am not a drama type person and mostly go for action films, but this is a story that with out a doubt will put a lot of top action films to shame, with out a doubt.... Great Movie...  "},{"Title":"Incredibly moving...","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILERRRI have never cried before as a result of a movie, but when he had to leave at the end I was struggling to hold back my tears.  this movie is very well done, without too much over acting, and it has a lot of interesting things I notice, like how jeremy was talkin tot he child at the end, and told him the boy in the picture was a hero, but he just a child.  which I felt he was tryin to say that he was onjly a child when he had to leave to vietnam, and people expected him to be more, I admit it doesn't take a rocket scientist to come up with that interpretation but I felt it worked for the film.  man this was incredibly moving, the only movie I saw that had me almost cry was Moulin Rouge. "},{"Title":"One of the best dramas I have ever seen","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After you see this movie, anything I might say may well be understatement! I was captivated from start to finish. Superb acting, incredible script and a genius of a director. The story unfolds in a truly inspired manner and hold your interest right to the end. I loved this movie. 10/10! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie shows many feelings and emotions that are very strong and personal. The atmosphere in the movie is very tense and sad. You can really get a clear picture of what the main character is going through, and how he is responding to the world around him.  I think it is a great movie, and that everybody should see it. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece in its genre of family drama, for sustained humanity","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's a partial spoiler at the end of this review, in about three lines, after the row of asterisks.This review might fail to make its point but I liked the movie. This film places some people in the spotlight when they don't know we're watching. How do people really behave at home? We've had so many good shows on life at home! From those, we may reasonably conclude that people behave at home in a way which indicates they're trying to entertain us while they iron, hang up a coat, or sit on a couch. Their emotional life is attuned to gratifying our emotional life. This film may be trying to gratify us emotionally too; how it does so ...is unusual. The characters each have an inner life and a point of view that seems not to have been written by someone else, but to be part of a long term beam of life that character is riding, with inner demons and inner angels. So they make mistakes, show their inexperience, grow, and are still immature in a way that we can relate to. We're only part way home ourselves.***** ******** *********** ********* ******* ****** ******** ******* Spoiler alert One reviewer wrote a respectable opinion that the film is mistaken if it is implying that only vets involved in atrocities had emotional problems creating ...  a disservice to all who served. So many things might be said in response. I'd rather just cite it, respectfully, and say no more. "},{"Title":"This is one of the best unknown movies I have ever seen","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I feel privileged to have accidentally seen this movie. I actually ran across this movie by accident. I was taping another movie on Showtime one night, overnight and this movie came on afterward. So I sat and watched it and boy was I blown away. The acting is absolutely superb. Kathy Bates...who has been my favorite actress since Misery and Fried Green Tomatoes gave an amazing performance as a domineering mother who tries desperately to hold on to her old school values (religion, family) at the risk of alienating her family. Martin Sheen is superb as the tough patriarch who is really not in control of anything in his life or family. The one thing I really loved about this movie is how it tells what happens when the heroes come home. It shows the true damage that is done to our soldiers after they fight pointless wars for political and financial gain. This movie just blew me away and I feel blessed to have accidentally taped this movie and seen it. This is a must-see for anyone who wants a true drama, this is not too melodramatic and preachy, but pulls at your heartstrings like none other "},{"Title":"destined to be","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There have been many movies about people returning home from wars and having to cope, but The War at Home is worth seeing. Portraying Vietnam vet Jeremy Collier (Emilio Estevez) having trouble connecting with his Texas family, much of the movie is very likely to tense you up. But nothing can prepare you for what ends up getting revealed.Part of what makes this movie so good is how it gives the viewer the feeling of both Texas and of the generation gap. Jeremy's parents Bob (Martin Sheen) and Maurine (Kathy Bates) clearly have a problem with their son's attitude, both about the war and his rejection of Americanism. His sister Karen (Kimberly Williams) is uncertain with whom to side. But after the dinner, there can be no neutrality.So, we as Americans may never be able to fully get over the Vietnam War, but this movie can probably help us look seriously at how it affected so many people. Emilio Estevez certainly did a good job directing. Also starring Corin Nemec and Carla Gugino. "},{"Title":"Emotional Wringer!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to agree with the previous author's comments about the excellent performances and plot.  Started watching this movie by accident...(lazy Sunday afternoon clicking channels to see if anything good was on)...and was mesmerized by Martin Sheen and Emilio Estevez.  Wow!  Gut wrenching! Kudos to everyone (have always admired Martin Sheen) but was particularly impressed with Emilio!  Excellent job of acting and directing...simply superb!  So why have I never heard of this movie before?  I'll have to spread the news. "}{"Title":"Very good acting and direction","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was well done. It covers the difficulties a returning Vietnam veteran has in dealing with the horrors of war. Unfortunately the writers chose to focus on a Vet who had been involved in an act of atrocity. I was in Vietnam and only once heard of such an act by one who witnessed it. The offender was prosecuted and sentenced to many years in Leavenworth.The notion that only vets involved in atrocities had emotional problems is a disservice to all who served. All of the soldiers I knew personally or knew of by word of mouth were honorable soldiers who respected even the enemy and believed they were there to halt the spread of Communism. The biggest problem was coming home to learn that many Americans were opposed to the war. That is what caused many Veterans to feel they had taken part in something less than honorable. Not the manner in which they served.The ending depicted the father acting more as a belligerent bully than a loving, caring father. For that I gave it a 7 out of 10. Had the ending allowed for a degree of acceptance I could have rated it a 9.Most decent men will come home from war with guilt and emotional scars. They need acceptance and understanding to overcome that. I pray that the public is more understanding of our present day Veterans than it was in the the Vietnam era. "},{"Title":"Great actors but kind of disappointed with the movie","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK I'm a big movie buff and buy used movies by the box to watch, this is how I came to find the war at home. I had high expectations with Martin Sheen and Emilio Estevez both being in the picture as we'll as I'm a huge Vietnam fan and fan of that time period. I was very disappointed though as I got through the first half of the movie I was bored and irritated, as nothing was happening in the movie, it's just a vet back from Vietnam living at his parents house with his sister, and him being extremely antisocial, he doesn't really go anywhere or do anything he just kind of sits around the house ;(that's pretty much what everyone else does too) being mean to his family and there's not even like flashbacks or anything until later in the movie and there all a total of 3 minutes long. You may like this movie but I didn't it's just very boring and even at the end nothing ever really happens. Its almost like watching someone's real life family and nothing really interesting happens. I was one of the people who LOVED Forest Gump, but this not even close. So in conclusion sorry but if I were you I wouldn't waste my time or money on this. "},{"Title":"awful.","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i didn't like it one bit, but then again i don't love war movies so that could have done something to me. also, i found the only good part was when sheen's character yells at the cousin for not getting to fight where his son, jeremy had too. other than that, awful and i give it 2/10. i guess that is where people who loved the movie or hated the movie come into play. Also, it was a good effort for the director, although i did find it very disturbing at parts. Also, the only good actor in the whole movie was Mr.Sheen. Although if it were based upon a play i would love to see the play and maybe then i'd give it a better rating. So for all the ones who liked it i'm glad and for all those that didn't like it i understand that in this world we are allowed to dislike certain movies too. "},{"Title":"Dark night of the Emilio soul","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Emilio Estevez must have watched Tom Cruise's performance as Ron Kovic and turned green with envy; that's the only explanation for this vet-comes-home-to-uncomprehending-family drama, which clings to the stage like barnacles to a U-boat. Painfully well-intentioned, but mostly just painful, it wouldn't be a bad TV movie about a middle-class family's helplessness in the wake of a son's agony they can't process Martin Sheen is particularly fine as the dad who tries to keep the lid on with his traditional enforcement of the rules. Much of the movie, however, is given over to director-producer-star Estevez's glowering and Monty Clift staring into space. One doesn't want to be mean about an obvious labor of love such as this, so the gentlest way to put it is the movie may give you newfound respect for Tom Cruise's gifts as an actor. "}]