[{"Title":"Nothing new, but nice.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How did they manage to create such a beautiful film, a pretty love story, when the story is about two nutters spying on their former partners.  When you think about what the story is about, and how far Sam (Matthew Broderick) and Maggie (Meg Ryan) are willing to go in order to get back to (and at) their former partners you would think that both should be either jailed or institutionalized.  However, Addicted to Love, manages to create a fairly romantic love story out of it, without us ever doubting the sanity behind their actions.  Both Matthew and Meg are here in roles they have portrait many times before in other films, while the star of the film is Tchéky Karyo.  You end up hating him and loving him at the same time, feeling sorry for him one minute, wishing him all the worst the next.  This is crucial to the story, bringing me to the conclusion that it is Tchéky that really makes the whole film work.  One could criticize that even though the idea is original, the story isn't, with no unexpected turns or twists along the way.  Simple, but pleasant film.  6/10 "},{"Title":"A black romantic comedy- something you don't come across very often.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When you hear the words `romantic comedy', the first thing that springs to mind is some sugary, smiley, big-haired, feather-light Julia Roberts escapade. `Addicted to Love' presents us with the polar opposite to this, even if the premise is pretty the same as you'd find in the usual rom-com. The result is a deft, reckless, amusing and entertaining heavy-handed movie. There isn't much to bicker about here. Meg Ryan and Matthew Broderick show tremendous colour and prove to be likeable characters as the vengeful stalkers. Tcheky Karyo is funny as the clumsy French fool. Kelly Preston is the least convicted of the four main characters, but is still relatively good. The film has its own generally funny slapstick moments that compensate for the lack of verbal wit. The narrative that follows is good enough to keep you wanting more, and the jokes are all very well timed. The title Robert Palmer song adds to the reckless, but endearing epitome of the film. The directing styles aren't amazing, but they're hip and stylish for the most part.Overall, it isn't film of the century and is far from outstanding, but `Addicted to Love' is original, entertaining and very funny for the most part. I give it 6.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"OK Romantic Comedy","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was pretty average as romantic comedies go, and frighteningly similar to Meg Ryan's previous vehicle French Kiss, which saw Kevin Kline playing a Frenchman she falls for, enroute to getting her cheating fiancé back. Addicted To Love could have easily been the sequel! That aside, my one objection is not only the lack of chemistry between the two leads, but also the fact that we are launched into the action far too quickly. One imagines the writer/director desperate to start the story and not being bothered to establish the relationship between Sam and Linda, before BOOM! She leaves him and Sam is in New York, all within a few minutes and seconds. The credits had barely finished!! I found the character of Maggie difficult to get a grip on. Independent and wilful, one finds it hard to imagine what she sees in the dappy, love-sick puppy, Sam. They are in such completely different leagues. Sam quips that they got together via Common interests, but this is not enough somehow, since the characters really do not have anything in common, despite trying to separate their ex-lovers.**SPOILER WARNING** In another scene, Sam and Maggie sleep together whilst fantasising that she is Linda and he is Anton. Yet Maggie's justification for sleeping with Sam is not made clear - she hates Anton and frequently says so. If she slept with Sam because she was falling for him this should have been made clearer, since he sleeps with her whilst pretending she is Linda whom he still loves. Although good, perhaps this scene could have been cut as it is confusing and largely irrelevant.The rest of the film was OK, the pranks were cruel but effective. More focus should have been made on the relationship between the two leads. "},{"Title":"Very flawed, but good anyway","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This generally enjoyable comedy should have been much better than it was, considering all the talent that worked on this film.  The problem is, it isn't dark enough to be a dark comedy, but it is too dark to be a romantic comedy.  Therefore, some of the revenge seemed too mean-spirited, and some of the sweet moments seemed out-of-place.  BUT, even with that big of a problem, I still enjoyed the film.  It was consistently funny and entertaining, and Broderick and Ryan both gave good performances.  The best performance, however, was by Karyo, and he was probably my favorite thing about this movie. "},{"Title":"Villainous Romantic Yarn, Lacking Chemistry or Charm","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a wretched, wrong-headed little waste of celluloid. Do not be deceived by the film's strange sleight of hand, mis-focusing the audience on Broderick and Ryan. This is actually a story about a young woman (Kelly Preston) from America and an immigrant from France (Tcheky Karyo) who meet in New York and fall in love. Preston, raised in a small town, finally spreads her wings and flies away to the big city in pursuit of her dreams. There she meets Karyo, the man of her dreams, who loves America where he has come to achieve his dreams. Sadly the two of them are dogged by their sicko, stalking ex-lovers who conspire to wreak mayhem upon them and turn their dreams into a nightmare.Broderick and Ryan commit heinous crimes, including invasion of privacy (on multiple levels), stalking, and breaking and entering. They are seriously disturbed voyeurs who generate no chemistry and no sympathy. I was touched only by the steady, true love of Preston and Karyo which even overcomes the sinister machinations of Broderick and Ryan. The film attempts to get the audience to identify with the sickos, instead of the true protagonists of this film. Unfortunately, their characters provide no chemistry and nothing with which I could identify. I just felt compassion for the two objects of their demented malevolence.In a comment thread on this film, someone suggested the film's ending was too pat - that there was too much neat resolution. To the contrary, this film provides too LITTLE resolution. After the twin menaces of Broderick and Ryan finally depart, were Preston and Karyo able to reconstruct their lives of love and security and promise? Or were they forever reduced to penury as a result of Broderick's and Ryan's conspiracy?The acting in this film is pedestrian except for Karyo, who is quite good. Meg Ryan and Matthew Broderick never come close to portraying 3-dimensional characters - much less, likable ones - or achieving any on-screen chemistry. This is a pitiful excuse for a romance or a comedy or a romantic comedy.Tragically, this film is about two people from disparate backgrounds who, against all odds meet, fall in love and build a dream life only to have it devastated by two contemptuous criminals from their past. There was nothing funny about two deranged, deluded people utterly destroying the lives of two other people who have found love, happiness and success together in the big city. For me, causing misery in the lives of others is a poor basis for comedy. "},{"Title":"Romantic Comedy with an Edge","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Better than average plot but not enough to raise it above B-level.I think Meg Ryan's star status worked against her because her cute reputation undercut her tough character. However, she proves that she can do something besides bubbly and is pretty good in a more edgy role.Tchéky Karyo was excellent as a semi-likable French guy. One common weakness in romantic comedies is that the viewer can't understand why the nice girl would fall in love with the bad guy. In this movie, we can she why she loves him and, by the end, we even like him a little too. Good writing and acting.Not Matthew Broaderick's best performance... fairly uneven. He doesn't do hopelessly in love very well. Broaderick looked great, even when disheveled. For that matter, all the characters look great.Kelly Preston is pure cardboard but it sort of works because three developed characters are probably enough in a Romantic Comedy.The set (the hideout, especially) stole the show. The sound was unusually good for a fluff movie. "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy with a rather hard edge","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a romantic comedy with a rather hard edge, or, to put it differently, a European-style farce with a too cushy ending.Apparently, this film was conceived as a Meg Ryan vehicle, i.e. as a product suitable for her established screen persona.  This was a mistake.  The cast choice (and the marketing) make the outcome of the film blatantly obvious and that takes away too much suspense from the viewing experience.  Also, the film makers did not have the courage to bring the misfortunes heaped upon Anton Depeaux (played very well by Tcheky Karyo) to their logical conclusion.  It's designed as a chick-flick and thus everyone's gotta be happy at the end.  A more emotionally ambiguous ending could have turned this into something special. "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan is as sweet as ever.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great romantic comedy. Meg Ryan is on of the sweetest women in the world and you can't not love her. The story is very clever and funny. Meg Ryan and Matthew Broderick are great and delivers one of the best romantic comedies ever. This movie is really funny at times,but has that serious underline which builds up until the end of the movie. Maybe Meg Ryans best movie yet,beside When Harry met Sally. "},{"Title":"He showed it","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I like the way Matthew Broderick character showed Kelly Preston how much he loved her and won't let he go just like that to another guy. Instead he didn't sit around feeling depressed, he flew to New York to win her heart again. It was pretty funny when they did the tricks on the French guy, I have to admitt that they were clever ideas. I should have done that to my cheating boyfriend! "},{"Title":"Might as well face it- it's rubbish","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Addicted to Love is one of those films which probably owe their existence to someone in the movie industry noticing a catchy title, thinking it too good to waste on a mere song and then concocting a plot to fit it. Pretty Woman and Sweet Home Alabama are other examples which come to mind. Sam, a young astronomer, is devastated when his girlfriend Linda leaves him for another man. This is not an unusual situation, but Sam's reaction is perhaps an unusual one. He gives up his job and moves to New York where he sets up house in an abandoned building opposite the flat where Linda is now living with her new lover, a French chef named Anton. His plan is to keep them under constant observation and wait until they split up. Shortly afterwards, however, another person moves into the old building with a rather similar purpose in mind. She is Maggie, Anton's former fiancée until he dumped her for Linda. The difference between them is that Maggie has no intention of winning Anton back; she merely wants to get revenge on him and will do anything to ruin his life. (Or, as Robert Palmer might have put it,Might as well face it, you're addicted to hate.) The two of them join forces to try and separate the couple but (as anyone familiar with the conventions of romantic comedy will have anticipated) start falling for each other.The film has some similarities with another from the late nineties about a man and a woman who join forces to seek revenge on their respective enemies, the British-made The Revengers' Comedies, based on a stage play by Alan Ayckbourne. The difference is that The Revengers' Comedies was made as a full-on black comedy whereas Addicted to Love isn't sure what it wants to be. The basic idea is too screwed-up and creepy to work as a standard rom-com, but the overall tone is too light- hearted and insufficiently cynical for a black comedy. Part of the problem is the casting of Meg Ryan as Maggie. In 1997 Ryan was America's reigning official Girl Next Door, the sweet and wholesome heroine of several romantic comedies such as Sleepless in Seattle and IQ. Even pretending to have an orgasm in a crowded restaurant, as she did in When Harry Met Sally, did not shake her reputation, at least as far as her screen persona was concerned, of being something of a goody two shoes. Maggie really needed to be portrayed as a, vindictive, half- crazed avenger, the way Helena Bonham-Carter played Karen Knightly in The Revengers' Comedies, but Meg's innocent niceness kept on breaking through at the most inappropriate moments. Matthew Broderick, too, seemed just a bit too much Mr. Nice Guy for a film like this. Kevin Thomas, the film critic of the Los Angeles Times, said that It is exceedingly difficult to find what's funny in the calculated, obsessive, relentless destruction of Anton, especially when he proves to be the most likable and mature of all four of these people. I wouldn't agree that Anton is likable; in Tchéky Karyo's performance he comes across as arrogant, self-centred and narcissistic. (In other words, your typical average Frenchman as seen by Hollywood. Isn't there a French Anti- Defamation League to counter this sort of stereotyping?) I would, however, agree with Thomas that the revenge exacted upon Anton seems disproportionate to his offences. His main offence, after all, was to dump Maggie, and by the end of the film I was starting to think that he had done so not because he is a selfish bastard but because he had realised just how difficult she would be to live with. The ending seemed wrong as well. A final reunion between Sam and a repentant, chastened Linda might have seemed a bit sentimental, but at least there would have been some psychological and emotional logic to it. The ending we actually have, in which Sam (essentially a gentle soul, if a bit obsessive) ends up with Maggie (borderline fruitcake) makes no sense at all. Linda also seems to be punished beyond her deserts in that after she splits up with Anton she appears to be reunited with Sam only for him to leave her just as cruelly as she once left him. Kelly Preston, however, fades out of the film towards the end, so we never see what emotional effect this has on Linda. (I realised while watching this film that this was the first time I had ever seen Preston act, apart from her brief appearance in Amazon Women on the Moon. Although she appears to have a fairly long filmography, I had previously only thought of her as Mrs. John Travolta). There are occasional amusing scenes, such as the one where Sam and Maggie release a horde of cockroaches in Anton's restaurant, or the one where Maggie's unworldly old grandmother relates what she believes is the plot of a soap opera she has heard on the radio, whereas what in fact she has been listening to is a massive argument between Linda and Anton, whose apartment has been bugged by her granddaughter. Overall, however, Addicted to Love just doesn't work, largely because the actors and director Griffin Dunne cannot decide whether to play it as a romantic comedy or as a black comedy. Might as well face it, I'm not addicted to this film. 4/10 "}{"Title":"All Mixed Up Lovers...........","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Addicted to love is a very good movie that speaks about the fact that not all lovers are very sure that they really want each other (You might be thinking of someone else !!!).Starring the very very lovely and beautiful actresses  Meg Ryan & Kelly Preston, The are really good in this movie and I actually loved them a lot. (I think everybody does). Also starring the cutest guy in town  Matthew Broderick.This is an adorable movie that will be remembered.  "},{"Title":"Not Addicted to This.","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Addicted to Love (1997) Dir Griffin Dunne / Cast Matthew Broderick, Meg Ryan, Tcheky Karyo, Kelly Preston, Maureen Stapleton Misprint title spawns only bitterness. Matthew Broderick and Kelly Preston play astronomers who part ways then he discovers that she is dating a French chef named Anton. He spies on them until Meg Ryan shows up as Anton's ex. Ryan's revenge tactics include stashing panties in his apartment to filling squirt guns with perfume. Predictable sitcom setup with painful consequences. Griffin Dunne's directional debut. Broderick is one to identify with as he gains curiosity. He accepts a job at Anton's restaurant in order to learn more about him. Now Broderick faces consequences but Ryan is unsympathetic. It just seems lame that Ryan is painted as a victim when she practically gets away with what Broderick could not. This makes her look pathetic in her forceful nature. Tcheky Karyo does the best as Anton who at one point beams at Broderick, I am Superman! At least Anton admits his wrong thus giving him more credibility than the Ryan character. Preston is standard issue and mostly observed. Perhaps had she been subject to some of the shenanigans then her role might have had greater appeal. It zeros in on one's dismay upon relationship tragedy but it also finds humour in revenge resulting in a heinous display of ugliness. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"An okay dark comedy","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've watched this film twice over the past few years. The first time I walked away from it wondering what was bothering me about the film. So this time I watched it from that perspective...and the reason became immediately clear. There's no character to like in this film. Well, there was one -- Maureen Stapleton -- always a joy to watch, though here her role took up far too few minutes. But as for the lead characters Matthew Broderick's character is madly in love with a woman (Kelly Preston's character) whom he totally takes for granted and could care less about her desires for her life. Preston's character moves to NYC and falls in love with a low-life a------ who is using her (and any other woman he can) to get a green card. Broderick's pathetic character follows her to NYC to spy on her and deceitfully win her back. Meanwhile, Preston's character has fallen in love with the ex of Ryan's character, and Ryan's character is going to get her revenge against him for using her to get a green card...and then dumping her. So the question is who do you root for in this film? No one! And that's the problem! So to me, the basic story line is quite flawed, not that the film doesn't have its funny (and occasionally touching) moments. Cockroaches set free in the green card hungry Frenchman's restaurant. Now that's funny! Broderick's character in a physical fight with the Frenchman who has 2 broken arms and a strawberry rash. That's funny! But an old Lassie television show being show in flight? No, I don't think so, and I failed to see the relevance to the story...although they portray that as a relevant moment is Broderick realizing he is in love with Ryan.Don't mistake my criticisms of the characters for criticism of the actors. Matthew Broderick is fine here. But when you consider his career, you wonder why he didn't become the every man type of actor like Jimmy Stewart. He had it in him, but I can't say the right roles came his way...or he didn't accept the right roles. He has had an okay career, but it would be difficult to define him as a film star (though he has done well on Broadway).Meg Ryan was the preeminent love-comedy actress for quite a few years, and in this film you can see why. She's not exactly my style, yet I've enjoyed pretty much every film I've seen her in. Though her popularity has faded, I still enjoy seeing her.As to the secondary love interests Tchéky Karyo as the Frenchman; no thank you. I'm glad this is the only film I've seen him in. Kelly Preston...well, okay.If you don't expect a lot from this film, then you may very well enjoy it...sort of. But it's not Broderick or Ryan at their best, and the plot seems to plod, despite lively situations. It's just sorta broken slightly. "},{"Title":"Like Meg","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a romantic comedy with a rather hard edge, or, to put it differently, a European-style farce with a too cushy ending.Apparently, this film was conceived as a Meg Ryan vehicle, i.e. as a product suitable for her established screen persona. This was a mistake. The cast choice (and the marketing) make the outcome of the film blatantly obvious and that takes away too much suspense from the viewing experience. Also, the film makers did not have the courage to bring the misfortunes heaped upon Anton Depeaux (played very well by Tcheky Karyo) to their logical conclusion. It's designed as a chick-flick and thus everyone's gotta be happy at the end. A more emotionally ambiguous ending could have turned this into something special. "},{"Title":"Dumped","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sam is an astronomer who has been together with his school teacher girlfriend Linda about forever.Then she takes a job in New York and finds a new man in her life, a suave French restaurateur Anton.He settles to an abandoned building across the street from Anton's apartment.He starts spying on Anton and his ex, he even borrows a camera obscura from his observatory which projects a life-size image from the apartment.Later he is joined by Maggie, Anton's bitter ex with vengeance on her mind.Now those two try to break up their old sweethearts, in a way or another.Addicted to Love (1997) is actor/director Griffin Dunne's directorial debut.And it's a very nice debut.Matthew Broderick does top-notch work as Sam.His character is a nice guy who ends up making the wrong decisions.Meg Ryan does a very nice job as Maggie.Her character may be a little annoying from time to time, but I guess she grows on you.Kelly Preston is terrific as Linda.Tchéky Karyo is brilliant as Anton.Maureen Stapleton makes a marvelous Nana.Nesbitt Blaisdell is very good as Ed Green.And so is Larry Pine as Street comic.Director's late great father Dominick Dunne portrays Matheson.The movie has pretty many funny and tragicomic scenes.One of them is when Linda's father reads the note to Sam his daughter has left.It is quite intriguing to watch all those ways they use to break up the couple and to make Anton's life miserable.The vendor's monkey wearing lipstick kisses Anton.They plant roaches in Anton's restaurant when a famous critic is dining there.You start feeling some sort of pity for the man when Maggie has caused him an allergic reaction from strawberries and Sam accidentally hurts the guy in a physical way.In a series of romantic comedies this is pretty original. "},{"Title":"vengeance is brutal fun","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is a sweet punch in the nose in the else so flat land of comedy these days. A mischievous story told a little differently, with excellent cinematic solutions - film within film - draws your attention in. Griffin Dunne, known as actor and producer, made an interesting directing debut. Broderick, Ryan and Karyo use all the tools provided, and do a good job of it. It is brutal and fun.  "},{"Title":"Put the kids to bed and enjoy...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't yet seen this movie with your sweetie, rent it, put the kids to bed and enjoy this edgy romantic comedy. It has spurned lovers, revenge schemes, telescopes and (some) sex---what could be missing? Broderick is perfect as the nice guy who learns a few new tricks and Meg Ryan is great, though this isn't her best character. It could be miscasting--someone a bit...darker, like Jennifer Jason Leigh, Mary Stuart Masterson, or even Broderick's first costar, newly gritty Ally Sheedy might've been a better fit; then again, it may just be that this character is so...undeveloped, so unexplained. We never really see who she is or where she came from (or why someone so articulate and obviously well-educated took to raccoon make-up and motorcycles). It's the one weak spot in a fun ride. But don't analyze (like I just did); just rent and ENJOY. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is my all-time favorite movie. This would be an extremely hard part to play for both Broderick and Ryan. I think that there was great casting, great storyline, and great production staff. It's just too bad that this show didn't get as much recognition as it should have. "},{"Title":"funny, but not the best","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree with Stephen Trew, this is not the best comedy I've seen. There are a few laughs, but it's not hilarious. I've seen better with Meg Ryan. And the end, well, they better skipped that. Because there was no magic at all. (It was somewhere in the middle of the movie, but disappeared after a while.) "},{"Title":"Average romantic comedy","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not a bad movie, but not a great one either.  None of the characters are particularly well developed and there are few laughs.  Meg Ryan does not give us her usual stuff.  It did pick up a little towards the end.There is one good scene in the movie that I thought was original and funny, the voice over scene.  It's the best part of the film. "}{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The worst thing about this movie is that the leads, played by Meg Ryan and Matthew Broderick, are obsessive stalkers. He wants his lover back, but instead of taking a normal approach, he decides to set up elaborate spying equipment to watch her every move. His creepiness is matched only by Ryan's character, who conveniently shows up with listening equipment that adds sound to the visuals.We are supposed to buy into the idea that because they were hurt by someone, we should cheer them on as they deliberately ruin someone's career, business, relationship, and reputation. And of course invade his privacy and even break his bones. It's not funny, and the characters just come across as pathetic losers who can't deal with life. I kept wanting to tell them to get over it, for heaven's sake. It is possible to get audiences to cheer for the antagonists in a story, but this one is not told well enough or acted well enough to show us redeeming qualities that would cause us to root for them.There is no chemistry between the two lead characters. A relationship between them is just not believable. Despite that, these two nutbars end up with each other and will hopefully leave normal people alone.Broderick is even more vapid than usual. In a way he is well-suited to this role of a guy with no real emotions. Ryan has a few good moments but mostly seems mis-cast in her role. She is not believable as a tough, motorcycle-riding, bitter person bent on revenge, and she doesn't have the acting chops to pull off the moments in which we are meant to see the hurt surfacing in her.I'm still annoyed, days after watching this, that I wasted my time on it. "},{"Title":"Juvenile with a predictable ending and modes of revenge","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think I hung out with the wrong types of teenagers because this film reminded me of how they would deal with someone who hurt their feelings. Oh wow the guy who cheated with Linda is a chef, gee I wonder what type of revenge they could get on him (yeah right, cockroaches in a restaurant how predictable and juvenile). Oh wow the guy is allergic to something, so let's give him some of that without thinking about the consequences (yeah right that lady was no adult).I knew those two would end up together at the beginning of the film too. Predictable and juvenile drivel starring two people who are typecast as nice people (i.e. not believable as revenge seeking peeping tom idiots living on the edge of the law).People who say their revenge is original really haven't watched many films or had the type of teen-aged friends I had. This film is not for adults who know how to cope with someone leaving... "},{"Title":"Excellent , One of the most Under-appreciated masterpieces","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is not a chick film. Actually it's more of a guy film, and probably why it got so many bad reviews and rating, and why a movie so great could be so under-appreciated. Some women who will see this film will see a guy being dumped trying to win the girl back and obsessing about her will immediately feel disgusted and say Ewwww! What a creep! They just don't understand what real love is in real life and how complicated it is for guys, especially nice guys. Let me explain - This movie is a Romantic movie with comedy in it, people in love, however ITs a Dark romantic film, it's realistic kind of love, not the one that we are usually are being fed with by most romantic chick films. This movie is about betrayal, obsession and what love is really all about. If you are a guy who ever experienced being dumped or rejected by women after trying so hard to be a nice guy and win a girl heart with love, kindness and basically being a doormat and have your heart broken - This is the movie you must see. Because We all have a little Sam in us who wants to believe in true love, sometimes we are a bit hung up on past lovers and we all stalked our ex's, if it's on Facebook or through friends, and sometimes we still want to love that special someone that dumped us and we are positive that person will realize the mistake he has done and come running back... This is why this movie is so unique, a movie that will leave a mark on you after you watch it.I've first watched it when I was just a kid, and 12 years later I still remember it and have to watch it again and again&#x85; I hope you enjoy this movie as much as I did. "},{"Title":"The perfect film","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Addicted to love is one of those forgotten jewels that not so many people has been lucky enough to see, It is with the Cohen brothers Raising Arizona one of the perfect comedy film for me! It has a lovely story, charming and great acting performances, hilarious and catching script, beautiful music,and a so intelligent and sensitive direction. The film has it all in the perfect dose, the fun, the romance,the action, even the morality. Griffin rules !! I've seen the movie lots of times, but I still enjoying it as the first time... I love it, my kids love it, we always imitate the dialogs between us,one of my all time favorites movies ever. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable in the 'heart-warming' category","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" New York &#150;1990s. Sam is a brilliant astronomer, who has two passions -the sky and Linda, his first and only love, a schoolteacher in the little Midwest town they live in. But all hell breaks loose when Linda has the opportunity to spend two months in New York, and falls in love with Antoine, a French guy who owns a restaurant and knows how to talk to ladies. Sam cannot accept to be dumped just like that. He goes to New York, settles in a ruined building facing the two lovebirds' apartment, and records every detail of their life, hoping to find a pattern that would indicate the end of the relationship and therefore his chance to get Linda back. This could have gone on for a while but Maggie appears. Ex-girlfriend of Antoine, she is as unwilling as Sam to let go of her love, but her approach is somewhat more active. You would not want her as an enemy &#150;that's for sure! Poor Antoine will have plenty opportunities to test the strength of his love. So will Sam and Maggie, who are in for a few surprises&#133; With no more ambition than to offer a good moment to spectators, 'Addicted to Love' belongs to the 'Only You', 'French Kiss', and other 'While you were Sleeping', funny, light and heart-warming. Meg Ryan is really good at it. "},{"Title":"Typical... but different","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Addicted To Love is the predictable story of a boy meets girl, boy loses girl etc etc. But then there's the whole delightful set up of spying and sabotaging someone else's relationship with an unlikely partner.Matthew Broderick plays the typical nice guy with lovely ideals and a desperation that's funny to watch. I love the Milkyway Man's tee-shirt. Also loved the What's your name?/Mike./What's your name, Mike?/Sam. lines! Meg Ryan is great in a different role; this time someone who's hardened by a broken heart and closed to new relationships.I loved that our protagonists were also antagonists, that no one was really what they seemed in the first place. Overall, the movie was so enjoyable but I think lacked some indeterminable thing that could've made it more than just a video store hit. "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I recall thinking when I first saw ADDICTED TO LOVE, that this is a comedy of a different stripe. Two people (Meg Ryan and Matthew Broderick) conspire to get back at their exes, and end up falling in love with each other. Matthew Broderick is his usual doofus self, a sort of grown-up Ferris Bueller (a role he would again essay in the excellent ELECTION). Kelly Mrs. Travolta Preston and Tcheky The Core Karyo play the exes, and there are a couple of very funny moments involving Karyo after Ryan and Broderick have been snooping around his apartment in his absence. But Meg Ryan is what really sets this movie apart. She plays the role of an avenging spirit as if this were a black comedy, and in fact she makes an otherwise lightweight piece of fluff bearable with her rather savage portrayal of a woman scorned. See it for Ryan if for no other reason. Director Griffin Dunne has always had a little bit of the anarchist about him,and that attitude plays well here. "},{"Title":"Simple romantic story with some pleasant twists...","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A good, simple love story about two spurned lovers who find out their ex's are seeing each other. They then plan revenge on them from across the street, setting up surveilance equipment, etc., in hopes of stopping them and ruining their affair.Meg Ryan plays a bad girl in this movie, and Matthew Broderick once again plays a sappy clean boy. I enjoyed this film and although we know where it is going (they get together--what a surprise!), it's still pretty fun getting there.Overall, a nice romantic comedy. Sort of dark, which is a nice detraction from Meg's normal roles.3/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"My opinion","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry to all those who hated this movie, but this is seriously my favorite movie. I think it's funny and really well written and I love Meg and Matthew. I'm not saying, 'go and see it because I know you'll love it' I'm just saying that I loved it. I hate people who say 'worst movie ever' because I think we all know that it isn't. You're probably wondering why this is my favorite movie. I don't know if it's my absolute favorite right now, but it's been number 1 for quite some time. I know there are better made movies that have won Academy Awards and all that jazz. But I consider myself unique in liking this particular film. "},{"Title":"Eh","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, ATL was OK.  Matthew Broderick shows off his play-acting talent in the physical parts of the film.  Meg Ryan's character was different from her others' in other films, but ultimately, the film lacks a clear, concise reason as to why it was made.  Yeah yeah, it's a comedy, but still...older comedies had a perfectly crafted plot and genius wit put into them; this film gets thrown up on the we have an idea and we want it on video pile.One upside was the originality of the stalking scenes in which Ryan and Broderick arrange a pretty peculiar setup in a loft across the way from their former-loves' apartment.  But it ends up adding the overly convaluted setup of the movie. "}{"Title":"You know what they say about a woman scorned; and Matthew Brodrich is a man forlorn...","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This number is a great little screwball comedy for the 90's.  Meg Ryan and Matthew Brodrich have both been dumped for another.  Each others another. So Meg convinces Matthew to use his astromical talents to help even the score. Meg is just a little edgier than her normal cutesy charactors. A fun film for a rainy night or any night you need a laugh or two. "},{"Title":"Nothing special, but funny","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie, certainly, reiterative of many and many Hollywood films. Nothing extraordinary. But, however, one movie - we like, another not. Why? Maybe some films not lose the thread of a story. This one exactly from same type. I Think it's one of the best from such type, despite the ending is standard and schmalz. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Nothing Special","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was no more than a typical love story.  Though Meg Ryan for a change did not look like the nice girl next door, she still played the same role as in her other movies.  Both her and Matthew Broderick were very cute in the movie, and the move was something that is just nice to watch at home on video, but all in all, it was not anything incredible "},{"Title":"Could have achieved a delicious nastiness","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rather unusual movie in the context of recent Hollywood, which with a just slightly harder edge and less sympathetic soft-edged casting than Ryan and Broderick could have achieved a delicious nastiness. The scenes of the two of them wallowing in their voyeurism with the slightly hazy images of the camera obscura forming a giant backdrop are an occasionally superb portrayal of unabashed spying and scopophilia. The descent of Karyo from stylish, self-confident restauranteur to an	unemployed disaster encased in plaster, desperate for someone to scratch his back, is surprisingly unsentimental and clear-eyed. Even the obligatory happy ending doesn't dilute the pervasive grimness as much as it might have done. The film has a gritty, often intriguing visual look, helped along by Ryan's odd off-kilter wardrobe - it stops short of truly hard-hitting commentary and is sometimes too sentimental or prone to knockabout comedy at the cost of pursuing its central possibilities, but it's distinctive at least. "},{"Title":"Lost chance","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a great idea. Two left lovers combine to take revenge on their ex-spouses. This could have been a deep-thinking, introspective, really important movie. Or a high-flying, no-holds-barred comedy. What it turned out to be is neither. The film is not a thought-provoking essay on the problems of separation, but on the other hand it also isn't an inventive or simply funny comedy about the errors of social behaviour. In fact, it doesn't work as a serious and dramatic film (as it probably wasn't intended to) nor as a comedy (with about three real laughs in 95 minutes one can hardly call it that).To think of what the French or especially the Britains would have done with this subject is alluring, but at the same time entirely wrong. After all, Hollywood has given us more than many comedies that not only worked out fine but became classics. In this case it's mainly the director, Griffin Dunne, who really is to blame. He stretches out the emotional (or rather, as he films it, the pathetic) moments far too long and doesn't seem to know how to make the funny moments work, especially as he doesn't seem to know where to cut a frame short or where not to. And the fact that able actors like Meg Ryan and Matthew Broderick strive hard but never seem to know what exactly to do adds to the overall picture. In the end, what could have been a comedy classic turns out to be a real loss. "},{"Title":"This addiction is good for you!","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sam (Matthew Broderick) is a placid astronomer who travels to NYC to win back the affections of his girlfriend, Linda.  She has just left him for another man, throwing him into a chaotic state of mind.  Finding her apartment house, Sam camps out at the vacant, tumbledown building across the street.  He finds he has an excellent inside view of her apartment, due to a large picture window.  Soon after, Maggie (Meg Ryan) joins him in his abode.  It seems her ex-fiance Anton is the man living with Linda and Maggie is determined to wreak havoc in his life.  After setting up a sound system, the peeping duo can even hear the apartment's conversations!  Will Sam succeed in getting his girlfriend back while Maggie is messing up the life of her former love?This funny premise translates into a humorous, enjoyable film.  Anton and Linda are sitting ducks as the jilted pair formulate ways to undermine their happiness as a couple.  Broderick and Ryan give lively performances that are amusing and, at times, touching.  The ending may be predictable but is nonetheless satfisfying.  Fans of romantic comedies will consider this one a fine addition to their list while non fans may relish the dastardly deeds ot Maggie and Sam.   "},{"Title":"Did you like French Kiss?","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Addicted To Love in the theater, I didn't think I would have remembered it too long. After having seen it at home I have to say it is a nice comedy, recommendable to all fans of the genre.The movie is very comparable with French Kiss, and the character performed by Meg Ryan is even more interesting than the one in French Kiss. Anyway French Kiss, with Kevin Kline giving one of his best perfomances, is more appreciable and full of jokes.A beautiful song by Les Negrettes Vertes (who were present in French Kiss, too, can you remember?) matches well a funny and interesting scene. "},{"Title":"gimmicky, tired, boring -- there are better date movies than this.","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had to endure this piece of garbage for a screenwriting class at UCLA.  The setup is fine, but when Broderick's character gets to New York the plot gets caught up in its gimmicky devices to keep the story moving.  For example, all the scenes that utilize that contraption that allows Broderick to see into his old girlfriend's apartment could not happen without that piece of machinery.  Like I said, it's a gimmick that cannot substitute for a decent plot.There's a lot of acting talent in this movie, but it's wasted.  Do yourself a favor and skip this and rent MANHATTAN, JERRY MAGUIRE or THE APARTMENT for a great romantic comedy.  "},{"Title":"Not very addictive...","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The story seems plausible, but the dialogue is below average. Inall, I found this 'romance' unappealing...something bettershould have been done with the idea. What a waste. Thecharacters are not well developed and very little romanceactually makes it to the stars.The funniest part (and this is not saying much) is that Lindarequires her father to deliver all her Dear John letters likesinging telegrams. Add one more of those and there may have beensomething to look forward to every thirty minutes.   "},{"Title":"I expect more from meg Ryan","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I apologize if this is more about Meg Ryan than the movie but I just saw this flick for the first time tonight despite meaning to check it out for years frankly. I just expected more from Meg Ryan -- more from her career to be honest.She plays her standard semi-bimbo, semi-slick and yet semi-alluring chick with little substance and not much thought it seems for how her dialogue progresses -- DOA and the Presidio some to mind. Her career is chock full of meaningful characters that defined themselves with any number of strong emotional traits. Even her small supporting role in Top Gun was incredibly well done, despite the arguably contrived and cheesy nature of the film (you have to admit -- cheese doesn't get better). She was electric in that movie -- Harry Met Sally of course is another. You felt her true emotion. I'm a hetero male so it takes a lot of soul-searching to write something bad about Meg. LOL. I just think she's a little one dimensional in a lot of her films and Addicted to Love is one of them. I have no idea what her character is truly thinking in most scenes and what her motivation is. I think that a lot of her troubles are poor script choices. But no one is forcing her.I would skip it or wait for cable. "}{"Title":"Lightman Meets Kate","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If only she could get her hands on some good material. But in her eagerness to break out of a stereotype she's picked some real losers.Today it's a long list.Here we have someone who's done an excellent job of acting appearing in a movie almost totally without charm. No, take that back this is totally without charm.I can't describe what it feels like to suffer through this turkey. It's very painful as work Ryan has previously done has been so unbelievably good.Forget the supporting cast without the diamond up to par and with a totally lacklustre idea for a movie, nothing else matters and nothing's going to help.Go rent When A Man, Harry/Sally, or Seattle instead. "},{"Title":"Transitory love...","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Astromer Matthew Broderick sets out to spy on his ex-girlfriend and her new lover; when the man's jilted fiancée comes into the picture, the two conspire to bust up the budding romance. Amiable, rascally, but ultimately predictable comedy is more about transitory love than love addictions. Sunny Meg Ryan gets to work with a little more shading and edge than usual, and she works well with Broderick; but the second-half of the movie scatters around trying to come up with an ending. The finale is cute, like the rest, but some of the wind has already gone out of the picture's sails. Director Griffin Dunne stages a few beautiful comedic scenes (as with the restaurant critic), but Broderick's 'friendship' with the new man in his girl's life is just silly, and the whole conceit of Broderick and Ryan setting up shop in an abandoned building right across the street from the loving couple is amusingly ridiculous. Still, there are finely wrought, surprisingly telling moments in the movie, such as the two leads sneaking over and going through the things in the love-nest, or Kelly Preston telling her Frenchman that she would sell pencils on the street with him if she had to. It's better than it had to be. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Excellent and totally under-rated.  Meg Ryan did this justice and had a ball doing it.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What is the problem with the voters on this movie?Does Meg Ryan ALWAYS have to be a sap? I mean, always the goodie two shoes?I love her romantic comedies, but this one had BITE. And it was funny as hell... how did it manage to score LOWER than her other movies?She's extremely likable as an actress, she is a very good actress, and in this movie she got to play someone with a little bit more range than she usually gets and she did it so well.. what is the problem here? Does everything have to be dumbed down in order for people to like it (Addicted to Love is HYSTERICALLY FUNNY. Watch it again and appreciate it. Not everything has to be either sappy or have explosions to be good. Sheesh.  "},{"Title":"a rare gem","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is by far one of my favorite flicks. Broderick is very funny but i really enjoyed his look. Meg is great, and i don't generally enjoy her stuff. but the real scene stealer is Tchéky Karyo as anton. his rape your skull line is priceless! this is a rare kind of romantic comedy and kudos to director griffin dunne for a quirky and offbeat love story. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There is a big difference between a 7 and a 6 to me. I tape and keep any movie that is a 7 or better. I don't tape or keep any movie that is a 6 or less. So, when I have to make a decision on a movie that could go either way, it is a tough call. I figure this movie is about a 6.5. Rounded up, what do you have?Even then, I could only give it a 6.5 because 1) I love Meg Ryan. 2) Romantic comedies are my favorite genres. 3) The ending was fairly nice. It took all that just to get a 6.5. That tells you a lot.This movie was slow and sometimes boring and almost always not engaging. I was extremely disappointed in the chemistry (or lack thereof) between Ryan and Broderick (whom I also like). The writing failed to grip the audience. The plot idea is preposterous. And, the comedy part of romantic comedy was largely absent. Too bad. It could have been a good movie ... if it was just a different movie. "},{"Title":"In the name of all that's holy, DO NOT see this movie!","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  thank god i didn't pay to see this movie. alas, a late-night free showing at the theatre down the street was simply not enough to add any semblance of reality to this clunker.as if the plot isn't bad enough, meg ryan and matthew broderick are so awkward as would-be lovers, i'm surprised there's not more footage of them tripping over each other.and that inevitable kiss? smarm central. i haven't seen a kiss that awkward since i was in the sixth grade and my boy friend barney (yeah, who am i to talk?) leered do you wanna french? at me across the playground.do yourself a favor and stay at home to wash your hair instead of seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"A Simple Love Story.","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Meg Ryan has always been my favorite actress for her spontaneous acting. The best of hers was always You Have got mail, and Sleepless in Seattle. But Addicted to Love sets a new standard about her.This is the story about two pairs of lovers played by Maggie-Anton and Sam-Linda. Story starts with both of them being dropped by their respective partners for each other.Both Sam and Maggie have been dropped by their respective partners for each other. And they must work together to reunite with their respective partners. Both of them tried to ruin Anton's life who is the ex boy friend of Maggie so that they can separate the couple. But while doing so, unknowingly they fall for each other.A plain and simple love story presented so well that it can be watched again and again. A romantic comedy about obsession, possessiveness. Both Sam played by Matthew Broderick and Maggie played by Meg Ryan have done justice to their role. However, Anton played by Tcheky Karyo has done a tremendous role too. "},{"Title":"Darker angry Meg Ryan almost threw me off","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Brilliant astronomer Sam (Matthew Broderick) is totally in love with small town girl Linda (Kelly Preston) who's never been away from home. She goes away to NYC for a job. He's devastated when she sends him a Dear John letter. He goes to NYC to track her down. He finds her living with Anton (Tchéky Karyo), and he sets up various equipment to watch the couple from across the street. One night, he's interrupted by mysterious Maggie (Meg Ryan) who is angry with her ex Anton. Together they bring havoc to Anton life.This starts as a dark comedy by director Griffin Dunne. Meg Ryan is playing against type by being a bitter angry chick. She is the MPDG before the phrase was coined. I can certainly understand the loop people were thrown into way back when the movie first came out. Seeing it now with more time past, I can appreciate the comedy. She works as this obsessed vindictive chick, but is able to keep her cutie charm.Matthew Broderick is also not the usual rom-com material. He's way too weak and not the alpha male common in a rom-com. He's funniest when he's most pathetic.This usual pairing is a challenge when this movie goes into traditional rom-com mode. But Meg Ryan is able to bring out the charm at the right time. That's probably the saving grace of this movie. However I could see a darker scarier actress who could have made this even more interesting. "},{"Title":"I'm not addicted, but it is a funny movie.","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Matthew Broderick, Meg Ryan and Kelly Preston star in Addicted to love. Perhaps I am a bit too late on writing the review. Considering this movie came out 12 years ago. But here I am ,writng the review for this pretty funny and fun romantic comedy. Broderick stars as Sam, an astronomer who's wife(Kelly Preston) starts having an affair with a french man named Antawne in New York. So Sam travels down to New York to stalk them. While there, he meets a strange woman named Maggie(Played by Meg Ryan). It turns out that Maggie used to date Antawne, and she is stalking him. So while stalking their ex-lovers, they both fall for each other. Of course they do.I'll admit that the movie ain't art. But I found this movie amusing and funny. There are a lot of funny lines, such asIf you ever do that to me again... i'll rip out your eyes and rape your skull.Or something like that. Like pretty much all romantic comedies, the ending is of course predictable. But with this one I didn't mind. It's a good movie.Addicted to love***/**** "},{"Title":"Smart, Quirky RomCom","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Addicted to Love delivers more than it promises. The summary for this work was less than inspired, however, the work itself is quite well done. This one has a few twists, a good screen play, and some wonderful dialog. I really enjoyed this one.This is probably one of Broderick's best performances; one among many. He was sincere, fresh, and utterly believable. Meg Ryan also contributed her usual stellar performance. I've never seen a single movie of hers, which did not allow me to enjoy her performance...yes, even In The Cut.This was a black rom/com, which is something of a unique occurrence. It is also a bittersweet, chaotic mess, but then again, so is life. I found it very refreshing.It rates a 7.6/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Love this movie","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The obsessive nature of romantic love, the ardor and persistence of rejected suitors are highly complementary to the intensity of life in Manhattan, the setting. Of course, the setting is also appropriate for the idea of spying through windows. Haven't we all yearned for the love object and ridiculously obsessed about them after failing in romance? The ingenuity of invention displayed by the characters played by Meg Ryan, the more radical of the two, and Matthew Broderick, who appears the more normal one to the mainstream audience, is very amusing. Griffin Dunne showed wonderful taste in directing this movie. It's interesting, witty, and the production values are good. "},{"Title":"Wickedly Dark","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I hate it when people write things like wasn't realistic. When did a movie have to be realistic? It's about fantasy and entertainment and those looking for something realistic should check out the documentary section of the video store! This was a very cute dark comedy about love lost. I thought Meg Ryan and Matthew Brodrick were great together! Oh! and the things they did! The restaurant scene alone gave me gasp. Talk about going in for the kill! I would have given the movie a 10 but it did get slow towards the middle and I would have liked a little more explanation into Kelly Preston's character Linda. Like why wouldn't she just tell Sam in her letter that she met someone else and was in love? Well then I guess if she had then we wouldn't have the charming, funny, kind of disturbed movie that we got. "},{"Title":"They use a camera obscura...","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just a point of clarification... Sam, as an astronomer, is familiar with a tool used many decades before for observing distant objects, called a camera obscura. It works very much like an overhead projector, but it has no light source of its own. A lens and/or prism receives an outside image and projects it upon a flat wall of a darkened room using the light from the outside image. See http//brightbytes.com/cosite/what.html On several occasions in the film when the girlfriend and the boyfriend are moving about in the other apartment, you will notice Maggie or Sam turning the camera obscura to follow the action, and it moves the projected image.The use of this astronomical tool adds much needed depth to the Sam character, and the projector is perhaps the only metaphysical allusion in the whole film. "},{"Title":"The funniest romantic comedy I can think of","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best romantic comedies I have seen in a long time. Addicted to Love is unusual, surprising, and - above all - very funny. The acting by all the four main characters is outstanding. I loved the movie because it has all the ingredients of a great romantic comedy with a cute couple and a long find-your-love story, but it adds to it some wit. This is a very fun movie to watch! The fantastic soundtrack makes the movie even better. I bought the soundtrack even before I had seen the movie because I liked listening to it so much in the Munich store where I found it. This truly is romantic comedy at its best. I just have to tell you that again! -D "},{"Title":"It is an okay movie.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For years now I have been wanting to write a review on this movie. I do not like to write spoilers because I do not like to dwell on the negative. After going to New York to see The Producers and seeing Matthew Broderick on stage it was only natural to watch the movie again. By the way, The Producers is hilarious. Matthew and Nathan Lane are great together!!!!!!!!!   If you have the chance, go see it, don't miss! It was worth driving five hours, paying $95.00 a piece for a matinee, staying in a hotel over night, well if you can add... you got the picture. Pricey!  But it was all worth it! Don't miss this one!I had the imagine of Matthew Broderick as a young man or a boy from War Games and decided that he was too young for Meg Ryan.  Well, she is one year older... Wooo! Then in Glory he was still young. I guess he does not show his age.  He is a fabulous actor. I watched him on  The Actors Studio, and he a very cool guy. He sings beautifully in The Producers.Imagines from movies stick in our heads sometimes and give us a wrong perception of people. Well in the movie at hand he plays a normal guy. He is the most normal of all the characters. Meg Ryan (Proof of Life) had not played such a strange character since she did  Joe Versus the Volcano.  The character as Leonard Maltin stated is seriously disturbed..   Kelly Preston (For Love of the Game, Jerry Maguire) Linda Green was good. I feel that Kelly has a lot to give and has not found that great role yet! Like Renée Zellweger has  found  Bridget Jones. Tchéky Karyo (The Patriot) plays  Anton Depeux the stereotype of foreigners that Hollywood has to do in every movie, which makes us foreign born American citizens pretty upset.In conclusion, the cast is good. The story  to me is very much  like  French Kiss.  I guess what bothers me is the notion that people will to go that extent for revenge! It is so unhealthy. Perhaps the reason that is not on my top ten list is because, the title does not go with the story. In any event the story does not flow. It is an okay movie. It is a sleeper in my video library!                            "},{"Title":"Best comedy I've ever seen and seen and seen","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What in the world is the matter with all these people that don't like/ only mildly like this movie? Screenplay is brilliant. Plot, characterization, style. All likeable characters, admirable in their own regards despite very funny flaws. Robert Gordon has an excellent future if he can keep writing screenplays of this quality. "},{"Title":"Meg is a bad girl!","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie was quite good. The cast is great - especially the sexy Meg Ryan who´s this time one of the villains. But still, she gives a wonderful performance!This movie has plenty of laughs and it´s really worth checking!I give this 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Exhilarating! Glory in the revenge you've always wanted but never dared try. Meg Ryan and Matthew Broderick explore the depths of their characters by finding love in the worst possible circumstances. "},{"Title":"A slightly darker role for Meg Ryan","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A slightly darker role for Meg Ryan than she usually gets to play. A pretty good film about obsession.  Too dark to be a light romantic comedy, but too light to be a black comedy. The rules of American film making causes the ending to be too predictable. "},{"Title":"Really great twisted love story","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must say I really enjoyed this movie. Matthew Broderick and Meg Ryan have wonderful chemistry. The really good part about this movie is that you really could see possibilities of Matthew going back to Kelly Preston or Meg Ryan. It makes you guess until the very end. It was really good and incurably romantic although you might not think so from the premise. "}{"Title":"Not that I'm saying the outcome is predictable but ...","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A guy and a girl whose respective boyfriend/girlfriend have dumped them and taken up with each other, plot together to break them up so they can each get them back. Could there be the possibility that along the way, they could end up falling for each other instead? Well do you think? "},{"Title":"Strawberries,Cockroaches,Typical Girl Pranks and Meg rides a Kawasaki.Grateful RomCom","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" She plays like a vingative and bad-girl (even better way,nothing to weep and get depressed like a melo-dramatic cause for lost love) everything to wreck a intolerable and mellow affair.Meg Ryan was Different but this role simply is RomCom (Meg's Trademark)A A very big emphasis is Meg Ryan putting her hands on the cockroaches. What a Brave woman! does Julia Roberts, Jennifer Aniston, Scarlett Johnhasson stand for a few seconds a few handfuls of cockroaches without knocking the despair? And not to mention that She played the pranks worthy Eminent Characters Cartoon like Bugs Bunny,Pink Panther,Jerry(from Tom & Jerry),Meg rides a Kawasaki,She makes tricks.Meg 's puppy girl, so cute.... Eternal youth 4 Meg Ryan. "},{"Title":"romantic comedy with a twist.","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This sick little romantic comedy is chock full of comedy as Meg Ryan and and Mathew Broderick play two jilted lovers who take up an odd passtime-spying on their exes every movement.This isn't your garden variety romantic comedy, it's got more dark comedy then sweetness and light. what's neat about it, is the storyline in general-I'm sure there are many exes who have thought of doing just what these characters do only most don't take it to such extremes. Also, NOT being a meg Ryan fan AT ALL-I must admit I actually liked her in this-she plays against type and instead of the sickeningly cute character she is in almost every movie she's in, here she turns up as a spunky biker chick-not bad casting.The problem ultimately with this movie is you pretty much know how everything's gonna turn out before it actually does-in other words more then predictable, by the numbers predictable! That doesn't mean one won't get some laughs out of this, if you can buy into the premise in the first place. Not a great movie, but far from awful and one can do a lot worse in terms of romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan and Matthew Broderick are a cute couple spying on their exes.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While searching the county library's database for Meg Ryan movies I came upon this one.  It is refreshing to see Meg in a different role for her, not the clueless almost air-head she often plays in her rom-coms. Here she is more like the character she played in 'Courage Under Fire.'  The IMDb median rating of '7' is about right. Matthew Broderick is good as the astronomer (Mr Milkyway) who gets so caught up in his work that his girl (Kelly Preston, Travolta's wife) loses interest.some SPOILERS are in the following comments, stop reading if you want to be surprised.When his girl, his true love since they were kids, sends him a 'dear john' letter through her father, he doesn't even wait until he finished reading it, flies to NYC and looks her up, finds her living with a French chef. Across the street in an abandoned building he builds a camera obscura, projects a corrected image on the wall, paints it white, monitors her life. Soon motorcycle-riding Meg Ryan shows up, turns out she is spying on the chef, her 'ex', jilted after she brought him to America to get a work visa, she is intent on ruining him. Molded strawberries on him to activate alergies, mega bucks on his credit cards, roaches in his restaurant, closed it down, he is ruined, she and Mr Milkyway end up together. Reminiscent of Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal in 'When Harry Met Sally.'DVD unremarkable but OK. "},{"Title":"broken hearted lovers get back at ex-partners","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A man who loses his girl to another guy launches a campaign to get her back. While doing so, he teams up with the rejected lover of the man who stole his girl. They begin playing very nasty tricks on the pair. Not a great film, but worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Definitely worth watching","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Maybe it's not the BEST movie ever made, but it's quite a fun movie to watch. It's perfectly funny with the combination of Matthew Broderick's lovelorn character (wanting his true love back from the man that stole her) and the revenge-minded character of Meg Ryan (who has the majority of the great lines -- the movie is worth watching for her character alone). The dark, jaded edge puts this movie above your normal romantic comedy. Well acted by Matthew, Meg, and the always impressive Tcheky Karyo (one of the greatest actors around). Give this one a go, and more likely than not, it'll be one of those movies you want to watch every time it's on! Being that the DVD is available at a lower price (I think I got it for about $5.99), it's worth adding to your collection...a great one for rainy/snowy days. "},{"Title":"The movie proves it point","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think Robert Palmer should be credited for his 1984 smash hit song. But hey, this movie came in to me as no surprise. Meg Ryan and Matthew Broderick performed very well in the movie. Scheming to get someone back tends to be a waste, and what happens you meet their ex instead. Too bad this wasn't title Love is Strange. I would agree to that title, however, Addicted to Love made the story better. Cupid is always doing strange things, using the all-star cast for this movie was not bad at all. This movie is a no lose situation, instead of striking out of love, you score all the time. I call this movie a perfect one for Valentine's Day. Everybody's a winner with this movie! Rating 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Education of cruelty at the astronomers.","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The young scientist is thrown by(with) the bride, and it(he) tries at a minimum of efforts to return her(it). Suddenly there is a girl, which has thrown her(it) boy for the sake of that bride, and begins the vigorous activity on destruction former boy. "},{"Title":"Yuck ...","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  preposterous, ridiculous, silly, nonsensical, dumb, stupid, not realistic, predictable, boring, not entertaining, useless, pitiful. yuck, awful !Don't inflict it to yourself !I think I've been quite clear  -)that's what I call a turkey !I gave it 1/10 because I couldn't give it a 0. you've been warned. Stay away ! "}]