[{"Title":"Take a Second Look At This Funny and Deeply Misunderstood Film","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes a movie is too ironic and self-parodying for its own good.  This brilliant and cleverly-conceived film, despite having been panned by critics and drubbed by fans, deserves a hard second look by those with sufficient vision to look beyond the apparent formula of the film to see the deft irony that lies (not very far) beneath the surface.  This film comes disguised as a romantic comedy.  Indeed, it has all the fantasy elements of the genre  endlessly falling flower petals; attractive men and women initially at odds with one another; the protagonist's self-discovery; and (ultimately) a lush, romantic setting.  It doesn't spoil the film one whit to say that it even has the traditional rom-com ending of girl gets boy -- in fact, isn't that de rigeur for a romantic comedy? But beneath the trappings of the eternal quest for love lie uncomfortable truths that this movie keeps sprinkling among the rose petals for the viewer to confront  people betray one another's trust for casual or selfish motives; trusting one's heart to love leads as often to heartache as it does to  fulfillment; what looks like love from one person's viewpoint is often something very different from the other side; being too needy for love stifles talent and ambition; and happy endings sometimes only appear that way.  Looked at as an ironic commentary on the imperfections and uncertainties of love and of the fantasy of happily ever after, this film is nearly perfect.  Looked at as a straightforward romantic comedy, it's awful.  But there are dozens of clues in the skilled writing and direction that point to irony, rather than romance, as the powerful engine that pulls this movie.  Indeed, the movie takes vicious swipes at romantic comedy staples throughout  the magical love story of the girl's parents, on which she was bottle-fed, turns out not to be quite what it seems; most other characters repeatedly fail in their love lives, or succeed only to suffer great loss as a result; and great-hearted social gestures are doomed to failure.  Sometimes the irony is apparent in other ways, such as in the flower petals that fall too relentlessly and too often either to be ignored or to be accepted at face value.  The message of this film, ultimately, is quietly stark  everything is doomed to fade away, and we shall fade away, too, no matter whom we love or how deeply.  Whether we will get scorched by that love before we shuffle off is an open question.  This is not your standard romantic comedy message.  Nor is this really a feel-good movie.  But it is very funny in places, cleverly constructed, well acted, and comes with an important message about love and loss.  It deserves a second chance.     "},{"Title":"This one got terrible reviews, but I liked it.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I recently saw this movie, starring Jeanne Tripplehorn and Dylan McDermott, for the second time on cable and I think it's a lot more interesting and original than critics gave it credit for. It does have a meandering nonlinear plot, and the lovers destined to be together don't meet until the end; these facts bother some who are used to a formula plot. It has been compared (unfavorably of course) with Sleepless In Seattle, but aside from the couple not meeting until the end, the two films are not at all similar; Sleepless (which I also liked) is much more conventional; every single scene is directly related to the inevitable conclusion.Til There Was You is actually more like You've Got Mail, where the predestined couple are foes before they meet. Til There Was You, however, is much more original and authentic.You do have to have patience with it; while it's part comedy, it's also a bit like real life; much of what happens is peripheral to the central plot. I liked this; you may not.It has several quirky characters, the most entertaining played by Sarah Jessica Parker.I am sorry that more people didn't like this; the harsh criticism will only encourage future screenwriters to go strictly by the book. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it very much","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie about five times by now and I still find new things to like about it.  Tripplehorn is great (especially at pratfalls) and the rest of the large cast is pretty good too. The movies takes swipes at modern architecture, smoking and relationships, and they are very funny for the most part. "},{"Title":"Why I feel this film is underrated and deserves more attention.","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  This may contain spoilers, depending on your definition of the word spoiler You've been warned.Being a rather large fan of Winnie Holzman's writing (and a fan of the work she and Scott Winant have done for the Bedford Falls Company), I may be slightly biased regarding this film, but I honestly feel that 'Til There Was You is highly underrated.The few reviews that I've seen site the film's major flaw as a lack of direct interaction between the two protagonists, Gwen and Nick. In my opinion, the authors of said reviews were obviously looking for a stereotypical romantic comedy storyline. That's not what this film offers. Instead, it takes a more realistic approach to the relationships between its main characters. An approach that is round-about and does not offer the quick rewards of a Nora Ephron insta-relationship (try You've Got Mail, if that's what you're looking for--typical romantic comedy but with panache).A major point of 'Til There Was You is to show how intricately interwoven people's lives are without them even knowing it (echos of It's a Wonderful Life anyone?) This means backstory and tangents. Everything from names to people, restaurants, TV shows, buildings--they all relate to each other. Thus, you can be intimately connected to someone without ever meeting them. Or, as this movie proves, you can be intimately connected and meet someone after MANY years and THEN realize how intimately connected you've been all along.In the case of Gwen and Nick, they know the same people, eat in the same restaurants, frequent the same buildings, etc. but they've never had a conversation and they don't know each other's names. That type of interaction is so intrinsically real that I personally can't help but be enchanted by the carefully constructed scenes. Of course, it can be difficult to piece everything together, which cuts down on the instant reward of an easy to follow storyline (that being another reason I believe critics didn't like it--it takes more than one viewing to really catch all of the details). But honestly, most of the greatest artistic works can't possibly be comprehended in one sitting (if you feel you can pull out every subtle fluctuation of every word in an Emily Dickinson poem by reading it once, you must have missed something...)If you invest enough time and attention in this film, THEN I think you'll see how wonderful it actually is. And, if not, you may at least appreciate the beautiful architecture of La Fortuna, Jennifer Aniston in a Rachel style role and the well-played characters Francesca (big applause to Sarah Jessica Parker) and Harriet (Alice Drummond).  "},{"Title":"watch it a second time, or maybe even a third, you'll be surprised...","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  the first time i saw Til there was you, i liked it for it's cuteness, but it kinda went by slowly...but then i had an urge to watch it again,and i was able to catch more about the connections between Nicholas and Gwen. i love how EVERY time i watch it, i discover some new path crossing i didn't catch before. i really do like this movie. "},{"Title":"Wassup w/you Jaded Viewers???","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this was a tightly-written, well-directed, superbly-acted film. It moved me to tears.  Rang true & clear.  Happy ending & all, it depicted the angst & turmoil of the shallow relationships this culture encourages.... the characters did the work & found their true mates as a result.  Too slow for American hyper/commercial attention spans, for sure.  More like a European film in that regard.  Brave & moving.  Glad I saw it. "},{"Title":"A very nice surprise","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I would like to state for the record that I personally hate romance movies. I find that the characters are usually one-dimensional and the stories are extremely poorly written.  This movie, however, was great.  I know, a lot of the coincidences that happen are pretty cheesy, but overall, the movie is incredibly well-written, so it all seems completely believable.  The characters are likable, and it's a very funny movie as well.  I recommend this as an exception for anyone who hates romances. "},{"Title":"Vivid characters and there run-ins with love, irony, heartbreak,","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  While many would find this movie uneventful and drawn out, the genius of it comes from the solicitous character development, distinct wit, and gradual, realistic build-up to an ending that renews one's faith in destiny and fated love.  The dynamic characters enthralled me with a story that shows very contrasting, but equally beautiful realities the pain and joy of love. The movie broke my heart over the end of relationships that filled me with jealousy and nostalgia, and put it back together again with the triumph of what was meant to be.  Because of the enduring themes of both love and, more subtly but just as importantly, emotional growth, this movie has taken it's place in my mind and heart.  "},{"Title":"The real reason this movie is rated so low","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" The comments here seem to indicate a preference for the movie not reflected in the overall rating of below 5. I think that's because the people who love the film are answering a perceived wrong, that critics/viewers want a typical romantic comedy storyline, that completely misses the point. The reason this film is not good is the basics story details and acting.I actually think the major lead roles were miscast--too old to be college students, or even young professionals (it was hard to tell exactly how old they were supposed to be throughout the movie), and not entirely convincing in their performances.But then the story details were not all there. I liked the concept of the random connections the main characters shared, and didn't have a problem at all with the fact that they didn't meet until the end (although I agree with another reviewer in that I would have liked to have seen something more than just 1st meeting directly to 10+ years later with a child). But it was not very well executed, and details fell through the cracks.Many of the minor characters were so 2-dimensional. Jennifer Aniston's best friend character was hardly given a chance to develop. The saving grace of this film for me was Sarah Jessica Parker, who was able to cover a range of behaviors so believably in a character that had the potential for caricature. "},{"Title":"this film is sweet & romantic","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I can't imagine anyone not liking this movie. It's a funny, sweet & romantic look at how people are. A sentimental look at how people live and meet. It's not a epic...but it was entertaining. "}{"Title":"The Panners are Wrong, including Ebert","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" The people panning this movie - do they even LOOK at the assembly line, derivative, crap, crap, crap movies Hollywood puts out year after year? No one should pan this movie who has gone to any derivative movie in the last 20 years.This movie stacks up just fine against many of the light romantic movies of, say, the Jean Arthur or Clark Gable or Spencer Tracy days, or even some of Kate Hepburn's. I tried to watch Adam's Rib last week and it was just PAINFUL dialog and stage acting. Let's all act like we are acting!Most of the writing and acting in those black and white movies was every bit as cheesy as in this gentle film. And let's not even get into film noir and its cheesiness. Or vampire movies or coming of age movies, in particular. No, Sarah Jessica Parker couldn't act her way out of a thin paper bag - then or now. Yes, Jean Tripplehorn was miscast and her pratfalls should have been edited out. Dylan McDermott I thought was cast well and performed well, and HIS character was quite sympathetic.Also, on all three viewings, the movie did engage me enough in wanting the characters to find what they were looking for. Coming back to it 16 years late, this was just as true as my first viewing.To me - don't laugh - the REAL star of the movie was the open courtyard of La Fortuna, the apartment building. I watch this movie mostly to see the courtyard again. It has a magical atmosphere. I even went looking to find out if it was a real place (it isn't). And the story really does revolve around the courtyard. It's a place I'd have loved to live.And as it turns out, in watching this movie again (late 2013) I recognized that I actually found an entire TOWN with the atmosphere of La Fortuna, and I live there now. People mill about and come together in any corner, and smile to each other. When I first beheld my current town, I had the same reaction that Tripplehorn had when she stepped into it - and McDermott, too. So now I can be pleased with myself, for having found myself a magical town (officially, even!) to live in. "},{"Title":"Loved it!!!","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" I was channel surfing when I happened to catch this movie and, after it was over, it really got me to think about life - and how small things can change the way it turns out to be, and how inter-connected we all are. It was quite funny to watch Nick and Gwen always managing to miss each other.I think the acting could have been a bit better though - especially Jennifer Aniston not having a role at all was quite disappointing. However, this was the first movie in which I really loved Sarah Jessica Parker. She managed to do a whole range of emotions with seeming ease.I can't understand why it didn't do well at the box office. I hadn't seen it before, but have been recommending it to friends ever since.On the whole a really good movie. "},{"Title":"A sweet little film","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  This is a nice little story with excellent character writing. One of those films that reminds me of the Shop around the corner or You've got mail. Although you can figure out how it's going to end by the mid part of the film but still it's an enjoyable ride that I would recommend for a couple in a dim lighted room sitting on the couch on a Friday night. "},{"Title":"Delightful and subtle, O. Henry twists, vastly underrated","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" Stories intertwine through our lives, around life events, past our passions, and a few stories themselves remind us of this. 'Til There Was You makes this self-conscious storytelling into a delightful journey.Two journeys, in fact, because it takes the title literally. Two fascinating people (writer Jeanne Tripplehorn, architect Dylan McDermott) are shown growing up and constantly seeking passion and connection in their lives, but finding no way to hold on to either.When a bit of serendipity comes along, they both are transformed An historic and almost otherworldly Los Angeles apartment house shows magic and belonging to her, substance and commitment to him. The ironies lie in her defending it in anonymous letters, his falling in love with the letters while designing the building's replacement, the building being owned by his lover, whose book is being ghostwritten by ... but you may get the idea. The writer and the architect are woven together by ties and resonances they cannot imagine, and yet they've never even (formally) met.It's a rich, intricate, hilarious, and wry screenplay, written by a principal writer of thirtysomething and writer/creator of My So-Called Life. The acting is touching and passionate, especially when one realizes that it's two connecting love stories - about learning to love and respect yourself, before you can find the serendipities of life. This isn't a conventional romantic comedy or drama. The couple isn't what is important here. The individuals are.In The Fountainhead, Ayn Rand wrote To say 'I love you,' one must know first how to say the 'I.' These characters don't know, at first, but they're open to life, and they find out, playing with and against friends, neighbors, and lovers. Their journey is what will enthrall you. The ending almost doesn't matter.See this, on cable or disc, and give it your full attention. You will be rewarded! "},{"Title":"this film is sweet & romantic","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I can't imagine anyone not liking this movie. It's a funny, sweet & romantic look at how people are. A sentimental look at how people live and meet. It's not a epic...but it was entertaining. "},{"Title":"Too Slow, Bad Ending (in my opinion)","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"   From the beginning, 'Til There Was You was on the right track, setting up for the big finish where it would all come together. But the thing is, it didn 't. I found the ending extremely disappointing, but maybe in someway it was the right ending; a little more realistic you could say. Judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"'Til There Was This Garbage.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" 'Til There Was You (1997) Dir Scott Winant / Cast Jeanne Tripplehorn, Dylan McDermott, Sarah Jessica Parker, Jennifer Aniston, Christine Ebsersole Idiotic romantic rubbish about the difference a person can make. It makes one wonder who will stand up and take the blame for this junk. Sarah Jessica Parker plays a former child star who is under the impression that everyone thinks she is dead. Jeanne Tripplehorn enters as a ghost writer who decides to do a biography about her. Later Parker is angry because Tripplehorn dropped the project to aid a place that city council plans to demolish. Predictable and dumb with horrible directing by Scott Winant. Tripplehorn takes honors for ruining the film with her constant overacting and her ability to bump into hanging objects. Why Winant figured this brief slapstick nonsense was necessary is anyone's guess. Dylan McDermott is flat as that standard guy whom Tripplehorn must get involved with, or at least allow the screenplay to hint at it. Parker survives the film with the one interesting role and she rises above while the rest of the film plummets fast. Jennifer Aniston also appears to hopefully her regret. The sets and locations are fetching and seem to liven up when the screenplay bores us to sleep. Aside from that there isn't much that seems to liven this sappy garbage. Pointless and dreary drivel embarrassment that is best seen behind closed lids. Score 2 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Really sweet and intelligent romance flick, bit disappointed in the ending.","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" This movie starts out weaving a story which is threaded throughout generations. A story about family, love, history, and self- discovery. Through a series of serendipitous meetings and love affairs, the viewer is privy to underlying connections between characters, which is really fun because the characters themselves do not know the connections, at first. Many enjoyable seeds of the climax are planted along the way, and the viewer happily anticipates revelations to come (not to mention the imagined accompanying dialogue; words are central to the plot; their importance; ideas and feelings communicated through writing. This will be important later)... As the plot begins to center around actually important real-life issues (not just 'romance') of gentrification, fame and greed vs. integrity, self-determinism and neighborhood preservation, formerly awkward/ wayward characters begin to emerge as not simply protagonists, but heroes. One awaits the dramatic climax; the satisfaction and completion of the two main characters' journey of self discovery, personal fortitude, and uniting in saving an historic and legendary neighborhood and its architecture...(SEMI-SPOILER COMING...DO NOT READ FURTHER IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW A BIT RE THE ENDING...SPOILER ALERT FOR TEXT BEYOND THIS POINT)...... and then? WORST movie ending ever. Not only are the viewers robbed of the actual portrayal of the climax (it's implied), but also of the long-awaited epiphany and dialogue expressing said epiphany/ climax. There is NO dialogue whatsoever to finish the climax, tell the story, etc. just schmaltzy music played over the entire ending, which again centers not on the heroic, but the mundane (forget the personal struggle for the good of the neighborhood, the preservation of a place whose inhabitants had grown to love and cherish and finally attempt to protect). Also, a touching sub-plot re a family heirloom piano is completely discarded and never answered; this would have been a classic tear- jerking scene; heart-achingly touching. It's not there; never appears. The last ten minutes of this movie was akin to an eighth grader who begins his term paper 500am before school the day it is due. The screenwriter seems to have forgotten where this movie was going, and gives up. Was ready to give 10 stars; but cannot; ending is just so disappointing. Grrr. "},{"Title":"The problem is it's billed wrong","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" I think what hurts this film's ratings the most is that it's billed wrong. It's listed as a romantic comedy. But the film is neither particularly romantic or comedic. This is probably also why it's been stated that it gets better after multiple viewings. After you've already seen it once, you already know that it's more of an introspective drama, so you can watch it in that context & it goes much better. It's actually not a BAD movie if you're in the mood for more of a down movie, but if you're looking for an ACTUAL romantic comedy (which are up movies), this is NOT it! The first 2 minutes are happy & hopeful, but after that, the happiness turns to sadness, the hopes are dashed, and it's a movie focused on addictions, broken relationships, lies, tears, broken hearts, pain, death, destruction, goodbyes, and a general sense that nothing lasts forever...a sense of hopelessness. Only in the last 6 minutes of the movie is there even the slightest glimmer of hope again. But the mistake they make is that they run the movie full circle so that the hope at the end is the same as the hope at the beginning...the hope that was killed during the movie. So the end result is that they're implying (whether intentionally or not) a cycle of hopelessness.And when what I wanted were some happy, hopeful thoughts to close out a rough day and give me sweet dreams, this heavy feeling of depressiveness really sucks. Two stars. "},{"Title":"One of my most favorite movies","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" I own a copy of this movie and loaned it out to various movie-loving coworkers, telling them nothing about it in advance and asking them to only to 'rate it on a scale of 1-10'. Sadly, of a group of 10 different viewers, it rated an average of '3'; most thought it was awful. Only one of the 10 recognized the brilliance of this title. The irony, the ongoing parallel construction, the 'pay attention to the details' element. I'm pretty sure this story will go on to be a sort of It's a Wonderful Life type of film; an initial box office disappointment that is rediscovered many years later. The running gag about cigarette smoking alone sets it apart from all other movies. It's a breath of fresh air in the formulaic approach of movie making. Quirky and odd as it may be, its message of 'love will find a way' (in spite of our disruption) registered a connection in me; in the end it always works out; don't give up. "}{"Title":"Slow moving but sweet, most romance fans will like it","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" Gwen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) is a romantic dreamer, encouraged by her mother, but she is disappointed in love time and again. Nick (Dylan McDermott) grew up in a dysfunctional family and, consequently, wears no rose colored glasses to look upon life and romance. There is one common denominator between the two of them, they both loved a Brady Bunch type show called One Big Happy Family when they were young. The child star of the show, Francesca Lanfield (Sarah Jessica Parker), grew up to be a troubled adult, with drug problems, who now lives on investments that were made for her during her young acting days. Thus, she owns a beautiful old apartment building in Los Angeles, which once housed Louise Brooks, and where Gwen now resides, that she is selling for big bucks. The plan is to raze the building and erect something new. As luck would have it, Nick is the architect of the project and Francesca likes what she sees and the two start a sexually-charged thing. The luck continues when Gwen, an author, is assigned to ghost write Francesca's autobiography. Thus, the two of them have connections to Francesca, a happening to add to the string of chance meetings and near misses between Nick and Gwen throughout their lives. As Gwen fights for her beloved building, Nick has second thoughts about his role in its destruction and Francesca remains a petulant, mostly unlovable eccentric, how will the film play out? This is a sweet story with attractive, talented performers but its pace is so slow that some viewers may turn it off. Certainly, Tripplehorn, McDermott, and Parker give nice performances, especially Parker, who makes a believable, mixed-up child star all grown up. Then, too, the L.A. scenery, costumes, and amenities are fine indeed. But, the script, which contains many good ideas and themes, moves along very slowly and the direction is far from snappy as well. Therefore, if you love romantic dramas, especially those that sport beautiful actors, do make time for this one. It has a nice tale to tell, even as it takes what seems like a decade to tell it. "},{"Title":"Almost a great movie","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  As I was watching this movie... I was enthralled.  The script, the acting were great.  The atmosphere, the subtle nuances that make a certain few movies *exceptional* were all here.  This is a movie about finding - the one - ; about soul mates, about finding out who your truly are and what is really important.  And it does it without preaching or treating you as if you had an IQ below 10 (like so many romantic movies do).  I found it riveting and as I was watching, I was almost ready to say it was one of the best romantic movies of all time.BUTThe ending sucks.  The movie should have been half an hour longer.  It's almost as if at the end - they fired the writer and finished it in the shortest, shallowest, most meaningless way possible.  It's not that the ending was tragic or predictable - it was just so *blah*.  And after such a wonderful movie, the ending was such a disappointment, such a downer - it was almost physically painful.And ironically, despite the fact that 99% of the movie is wonderful, the ending was so bad that I actually recommend against seeing this movie.  It left me feeling unfulfilled and unsatisfied which is so unfortunate because I really, really like the first parts of the movie very much.  I really, really hope that a DVD will come out with an alternate ending =).See When Harry Met Sally - good movie with a good ending. "},{"Title":"Should have been much better...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  The premise was there to make a really good romantic comedy, but somewhere it all went totally wrong.  First, there were no sparks between the two leads.  There they were near the end pretending to be in love at first sight, and it was just not believable at all.  McDermott's character was really annoying, obnoxious, unsympathetic etc... until about 3/4 the way through the film, then he started to be sweet - but he was nowhere near convincing enough.  Aniston had VERY little to do, and her character was really only half developed, while Parker's character was a complete joke - how self obsessed can a  person be?  The pointers on relationships in general fell short, and really the only people to liven up the film were the bit part actors, who outshone the central actors in every scene.  Quite frankly this film was a total waste of energy and time.  It had the foundation to be O.K but could not properly utilize the resources to pull it off.   "},{"Title":"Underrated, sweet film","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so it's just a simple, utterly Hollywood love story with little new to offer in terms of plot, but it's disarmingly affable in an An Affair to Remember style.  This movie is a charming little fairy tale with believeable characters with believable chemistry portrayed by more-than-competent actors.  Particularly appealing is Jeanne Tripplehorn in one of her first chances at a star turn; she does not disappoint.  A simple, but delightful movie. "},{"Title":"Very interesting and funny movie about waiting for fate.","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie last night on DVD and was shocked to find it has such a low rating. We enjoyed it very much, it has an interesting story, is funny, and has a fine cast.It begins in the early 1960s and we see two key characters, a young boy and a young girl, in the same school and both destined to become musicians, but never really being friends. We somehow sense that there may be a future together for these two.Most of the movie is set in the current time, which was 1997. The characters are in their mid-30s and still struggling to find their destiny in life.One of those two young students grew up to be Jeanne Tripplehorn as Gwen Moss, a writer who loves to write poetry but makes her living ghost-writing for others. In that regard she gets hooked up with Sarah Jessica Parker as Francesca Lanfield who grew up on camera in a family TV show One Big Happy Family. The other young student grew up to be Dylan McDermott as Nick, an architect with an unusual style. Although he got in a bit of hot water with his boss for going out on his own to design an unusual restaurant, when Francesca finds out he was the architect she insisted that he lead a new project that involved her. Jennifer Aniston, before she became famous, has a smaller part as Gwen's friend, Debbie.Good movie, we enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Amiable rom-com that never goes anywhere","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  There's a nice build up for the first hour - two kids grow up and bump into each other several times before 'finding' each other - but then there seems to be twenty minutes of the end missing because one minute they don't know each other from Adam and then they're together.Somebody should explain that the only reason people go to see this type of movie is to WATCH THE CHARACTERS GET TO KNOW EACH OTHER.  This movie completely skips this part and ruins all that's gone before it. "},{"Title":"Simple story made for hopeful romantics","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I do not know what reviews some critics gave for this film but it was probably horrendous because critics seem to have their own definitions of what a movie should be about from the films they've enjoyed early on in their lives/careers.  I also bet that the reviews are horrible because they have seen these actors in other performances and have been somehow annoyed by them therefore becoming slightly biased.  I myself am biased towards/against some actors, directors and even certain film critics. This movie in particular offers many styles and direction that have been used before in other much more acclaimed films (I will not name any because truthfully nothing comes to mind).  What I appreciated about this film is it's simplicity in terms of telling it's story.  It runs a straight line that doesn't use much dreamlike flashbacks, dream sequences and it doesn't even try to become innovative.  A movie that runs like a well told story with no flashy effects that could deter the watcher from what we're supposed to be paying attention to... the story.  I could understand why people should not like this as much as I do and I don't blame them.  We each have our own vision of what we want and I like this movie. Focusing on the movie, I think that all the main characters are well developed.  Dylan McDermott, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Jennifer Aniston and Sarah Jessica Parker have a strange and yet wonderful chemistry together (Although not all of the characters know each other, their scenes are actually realistically acted).  Scenes, from the watching of the fictitious TV show by the two leads to the scene which they finally meet is so unexpected that it is realistic.In conclusion, I have to say that watching this was a pleasant experience (although many cliched dialogue and situations).  People should see it with an open mind and try to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Simple, Complicated, Shallow, Deep","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" I caught this on TV last night(sans ad-breaks), and I have to say, I liked it a lot. I had tried to watch it a few times before on TV, but had never really got hooked into the story enough to stick with it until the end.I'm glad I did now. I hate Sex And The City, especially SJP's character in it, but she was great in this movie. And (gulp!) very sexy in it. Must have been the Bob.Jean Tripplehorn is very underrated, and has had some casting misfortunes in the past, which have overshadowed her talent and potential. Even though her character here was for the most part a little distant and icy, she still managed to bring a bit of warmth to the part. And she's also extremely attractive, which never hurts.Jen Aniston didnt play Rachel, which was a good thing. The supporting cast did their jobs well, and Dylan McDermott? Well, you either like him or you loathe him, I have found. I thought he was quite watchable in this.I was amused to see reviewers on here, knocking the film because people smoked in it. Honestly, I don't understand what that has to do with a film's artistic merit. On matters like smoking and drug use, some of our members(non-UK, usually) tend to let their right wing views tarnish their opinions of a film. Which is, as they say on message boards, Retarded.Take a chance and see this film. It's not Con Air, but it has a story, characters, and lots of smoking.(irony) Which is wrong, as Jesus doesn't like smoking. Or homosexuals(/irony).7.5 out of 10,Goodnight. "},{"Title":"Cute, I suppose","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Cute concept (It took them twenty years... yadda yadda), okay exposition, anticlimactic ending.  Tripplehorn's performance, while not stirring, was right for her role.  McDermott looks attractive and is attractively tortured, essentially playing the same character he's played from Steel Magnolias through to The Practice.  Jessica Parker is delightfully vampy and vapid, and shines in her own right.  The apartment building (La Fortuna) is lovely and romantic, which right there should tell you nothing like it actually exists in Los Angeles.  It's not a bad movie, but it fall flat on overall freshness and originality. "},{"Title":"Til There Was You","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Awful romance comedy about fated lovers who seem unlikely to meet. Parker is horrendous as the whining, bitching love interest of McDermott, who is secretly set to fall in love with Tripplehorn.  "}{"Title":"Jeanne Tripplehorn the next Debrorah Kerr or some Lame Romantic Actress","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  The film has weird annoying characters, strange unexplainable slapstick, and an insurmountable amount of dialogue about smoking.  The movie has a contrived plot of a bitchy, empty-headed woman's (Jeanne Tripplehorn) search for love.  Although who would ever like Jeanne's character, personality, or reading of the dialogue, I really cannot say.  Except that she likes to smoke.Sarah Jessica Parker gives an interesting character performance (who likes to smoke).  Dylan McDermott does his best to look pretty and soulful (as he smokes).  And, hey, what is Jennifer Aniston doing there?  Oh, she's not really in it enough for anyone to care about her.  (But she likes to smoke).This is a waste of anyone's time.  I don't even know how I was able to sit through as much of the movie as I did.  I can't even believe I spent the time to write this, except to warn others of its banality.  Anyone need a cigarette?  "},{"Title":"Sarah Jessica Parker And An Under Used Jennifer Aniston Are The Only Bright Spots In Dull Affair","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":" WOW that was two long hours, if it were not for the awful The Switch this would be the worst movie in Jennifer Aniston's post Friends filmography. Not that any of the movies problems are her fault. She is actually blameless, as she is very good in her five or six scenes. Along with Sarah Jessica Parker as a former child star, she is the best thing in the movie.No the blame for this movie lands firmly on the door stop of a bland Jeanne Tripplehorn (who I loved in Waterworld and Basic Instinct) a dull Dylan McDermott, whoever was in charge of casting those two and finally the director Scott Winant. I normally write a plot in a paragraph for each review, here it does not need a full paragraph. Two single strangers keep almost meeting over the years, will they ever meet and fall in love? I've just realised the movie was only on for one hour and forty four minutes. It felt a hell of a lot longer!! In fact my interest only perked up when Jen Aniston and Sarah Jessica Parker were on screen. Whoever though Jeanne Tripplehorn would make an interesting romantic lead were very wrong as I simply didn't care about her character and Dylan McDermott is dull and lifeless I did not care if they got together or not!! I was more interested in the problems in Aniston's characters seemingly perfect marriage. "},{"Title":"Love and smoking","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  You know what is going to happen 15 minutes into the movie, unless you have had a lobotomy.  The characters are kind of likeable.  Still, it's just a happy ending, format driven, feel-good movie.  I guess you can watch it with a date or something, otherwise skip it. "},{"Title":"Another good idea gone awry","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  The thing most disturbing is how close this comes to being an excellent movie.  When I tell people about a movie, I usually give the view from 30000 feet and they say That sounds great I'll have to see it!  And I say wait it really doesn't come off that well. For one thing I found Dylan McDermott's character very unappealing. And the occasional Jerry Lewis type comedy (In the restaurant) very out of context.  What could be a very warm appealing look at single life was lost.  "},{"Title":"20 years?","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Is it that easy to fall in love? I don't get the point of this movie at all. What is the pleasent part about the movie? That the couple fall in love while they were in a class trying to stop their smoking? Wow, how romantic?! Jennifer Aniston is so sudden in this film, her voice and movements are so annoying. Dylan Mc is fine but not any better. This movie is a waste of time, unless you don't care to watch some meaningless story so called til' there was you..  "},{"Title":"woeful","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  One of the worst movies I have ever seen.  Painfully bad. Watch at your own risk--you have been warned.   "},{"Title":"This is a BADly produced/written/acted/directed movie about two people who need to meet (and smoke).","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  'Til There was You is one of the worst films we've ever seen. It fails in every respect. Jeanne Tripplehorn was better (as an actress...) in Waterworld. In comparison, this film is Dungworld. When a character stumbles once, or even twice, in the course of a film, one can understand it. But Jeanne's character falls, trips, stumbles so often that she might have a bit of Jerry Lewis in her. In her defence, each (prat?) fall was probably blocked, choreographed, and rehearsed. And rehearsed.  Although this is bad enough for a film, the actors (Dylan McDermott and Jeanne Tripplehorn) seem to spend most of the plot going out for a smoke or trying to find a place to smoke. If the film was a diatribe on having no place to smoke- Ok - BUT, it isn't.However long this film runs, it is too long by 10 minutes past the running time.Oh, Jeanne Tripplehorn, ALMOST acts in a public forum meeting. You ALMOST see her break life into the character. Oh, it's ALMOST as convincing as her scene yelling at Michael Douglas in Basic Instinct--hmm, on second thought, not really.This is a film to avoid at all costs unless you need a cigarette and are trapped in nicotine addicts anonymous or forced to watch outtakes of HOOPER (Burt Reynolds). And even then, toss a coin or go to sleep. "},{"Title":"plane and simple------it sucks","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy","Review":"  The idea for this movie --- two people who never met,but actually always been close to meeting,are soulmates --- is great,that is if the script didnt totaly SUCK!!!! I dont know why they call it a comedy ---- its NOT FUNNY. And I did not believe for a minute that those two could be soulmates.In the half of the movie,2minutes that I did not sleep,I wanted to kill The Practice guy,he is so...I dont have a word for it. I give this movie 1 out of 10. Because it seeamd like it would never end.And so boring ....oh my god!!! DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!!! "}]