[{"Title":"You won't be able to stop laughing","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"53 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mr. Bean (Rowan Atkinson) is a London museum guard who is about to be fired by middle management.  The big boss, however, won't hear of it; instead, he sends Mr. Bean to America.  Once there, Mr. Bean is to pose as an art critic and give a rousing speech about Whistler's mother for a California art museum. Well, the museum director picks Mr. Bean up at the airport and pandemonium is the name of the game after that.  Mr. Bean upsets the director's household, creates havoc at a local amusement park, blows up dinner and more.  On top of that, he rarely speaks so everyone is certain he is an idiot.  Can this man transform himself into an art critic and will he be able to present a speech on the museum's big day?This movie is just flat-out fun.  Although he has very little dialogue, Mr. Bean's expressions and antics are priceless.  The supporting cast does a reasonably good job but Mr. Bean towers over everybody.  This movie should be required viewing for anyone in a depressed state of mind; it can lift the spirits of even the saddest beings on earth.  Recommended for a fine family evening of giggles and leg-slapping. "},{"Title":"British farce at its finest!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"49 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, and in my opinion it is among the ranks of the legendary Monty Python.Bean is about the infamous Mr.Bean, a lazy buffoon who manages to cause problems in even the simplest of tasks. In this movie, he works at an Art Gallery and the management desperately want to get rid of him. Rather than fire him, they send him to Los Angeles to unveil the painting, Whistler's Mother. An American named David Langley allows Mr.Bean to stay in his house during his visit against the will of his family. This turns out to be a huge mistake.This movie is roll-out-of-your-chair-laughing funny. Rowan Atkinson's acting is beyond excellent, and all of the other characters are good as well.The only thing I can find to nitpick about this movie is that there is not a very strong plot. The movie is basically a line of connected humor skits. I personally do not mind this too much, but if you are looking for a movie with a story that can be made into a book, look elsewhere.If you enjoyed the Mr.Bean series and like disaster movies, this is the perfect movie for you! "},{"Title":"Highly Underrated Classic","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"49 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  For those of you who loved watching Mr Bean, this movie doesn't fail to disappoint you. I saw this last night and laughed my head off, in fact, I think I was laughing more than when I was seeing Johnny English(also starring Atkinson).For those who really love the TV series, a few of the gags have been redone, including the vomit bag joke, the turkey head and the fast ride (the latter is so damn funny).So if you love Rowan Atkinson or love Mr Bean, go see this film! "},{"Title":"Truly a underrated movie!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"44 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean The Movie is without a shadow of a doubt, one best comedies of 1997. Bean (Rowan Atkinson) is working as a guard in the Royal Gallery of London. His employers, except for one, all hate him.  They send him on a two-month sabbatical (to get rid of him for awhile) to present Whistler's Mother to the Grierson Art Gallery in Los Angeles.  The only problem?  They told the Grierson that he was a world-famous scholar!  If you think Bean couldn't get into any more trouble than he does in the UK, wait till you see what he does in the movie!Bean stays with the Langley family, all of whom I found annoying except for David (Peter MacNicol), Bean's new friend.  Burt Reynolds even has a short cameo appearance as General Newton, a person who cares nothing for art personally.Although he used some of his former gags, there is enough new ones that make the movie stand out.  The movie did better overseas than in the U.S. due to moronic critics and bad advertising.Bottom line, Bean The Movie never got the credit it deserved over here. I would buy this movie on DVD or VHS, whichever you prefer.  Also if you're a Bean fan, look for The Best Bits of Mr. Bean.  It's a collection of Mr. Bean skits from his TV show! "},{"Title":"God, I LOVED this movie!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"40 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  How can anyone not LOVE this movie. It has to be the greatest comedy made in the 1990s. IT HAS TO BE. Rowan Atkinson is an incredible slapstick comedian. He is one of the great comedy performers of all time, ranking alongside Chaplin, Keaton, Fields, The Marxes, Tati, Brooks and Allen. This was a really popular movie when it was released in the Spring of 1997-and with good reason. If there could ONLY be more movies like this. I'm a big fan of Atkinson's TV shows MR BEAN, BLACKADDER and of course THE THIN BLUE LINE. Do yourself a favor and see this movie! "},{"Title":"Mr. Bean has a very distinctive and narrow brand of slapstick comedy so his target audience is not that huge, but people who are into his humor should LOVE this movie.","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I had never seen any of Rowan Atkinson's performances as Mr. Bean when this movie came out in 1997, so I knew nothing about it when I went to see it other than that it was about the zany adventures of this strange looking man on the movie poster. He strikes me as one of those comedians that you either completely love or completely hate, because his comedy is so extreme. It's not the kind of thing that you can watch and just sort of like or not really care for. It's one of those movies where it's not surprising to see people walk out in the middle while other people are just about falling out of their chairs laughing so hard. Personally, I was one of the latter.I admit that Bean certainly deals in a very childish sort of humor. This is, by definition, slapstick comedy, and it is certainly not for all tastes. But from the movie's opening scene, which shows Bean gleefully shaving his entire face with an electric razor (including his forehead and even his tongue), you know that this is what the movie is like, so you can't really hold that against it. The story in the film is clearly one of those that is invented for the movie and then manipulated to fit the screenplay and to work nicely into the movie. It's not that hard to realize that such a huge art gallery could be fooled for so long by someone like Mr. Bean, thinking that he's a genius, and certainly no way that he would be left alone with a $50 million painting long enough to remove it from the vault and rub paint thinner into it, but on the other hand, the rest of the comedy fits so nicely into this plot. At the very least, there are relatively realistic situations thrown into an unrealistic plot, which makes the movie enjoyable even though you don't really take it seriously.There is a wonderful scene, for example, where Bean sneezes on the painting of Whistler's Mother, and then he tries to wipe off the spray with his handkerchief, which has been smeared with a leaky pen. So the painting gets smeared with ink, and he grabs the first can he sees off a nearby shelf, which happens to be paint thinner. It cleans the ink off nicely but then causes the paint to boil off, and then Bean frantically tries to save it by wiping it even harder, rubbing the paint off right down to the canvas. Sure, this is not the mark of an intelligent mind, but that's the point of the whole movie. Bean is a film that relies on the fact that humans are so amused by the misfortunes of others. There's something funny about seeing someone else get into a sticky situation, and in movies like this, they do just that and things only get worse and worse. Granted, there are a million ways out of every situation that Bean gets into that would be less painful than the routes that he chooses, but if he took them there would be no movie. Consider, for example, the bathroom scene where a man walks in on Bean as he appears to be getting a little too friendly with a hot air dryer. He quickly grabs a light bulb pretending that he had been examining it, and then the man leaves and Bean drops the hot bulb to break on the ground and when he goes to run cold water over his burnt fingers the water sprays his crotch again. Total slapstick, but that's funny!Like I said, Bean is not a movie for all tastes. But there is a place for childish humor in movies, and that place is in movies like this. It certainly can be taken too far or simply done wrong, as in the case of movies like the American Pies or the Scary Movies, etc., but Bean is a movie that knows what kind of comedy it delivers, and it knows how far to go before things just descend into vulgarity and bad taste. It's a comedy that does not pretend to be anything that it's not, and for that it should be respected. It is also, by the way, the kind of a comedy that allows for an almost innumerable amount of sequels. While I can certainly see it being vastly overdone, I would just like to say that if a couple more Bean movies were to be made, I would be among the last to complain! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although the storyline is quite different to the usual ones in the tv show, the movie still captures the clumsiness and total annoyingness of the character of Mr Bean. Rowan Atkinson is great and so are the other actors in the film. I really enjoyed this, probably more because it wasn't a disaster like the tv show usually is. In other words Bean didn't stuff up as much. there were some great scenes involving the painting and in the hospital. I recommend it to those comedy fans and for anybody who can withstand the lunatic behaviour of Mr Bean. "},{"Title":"Successful transformation to the big screen","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  WarningPlot GiveawaysBean the movie is a triumph in the cinema world. For once a film based on the T.V. series has worked. It may be the case the best jokes are altered versions of what appeared on the small screen but are slotted into the story line with immense skill. Just before Bean gets the Turkey stuck on his head when asked had he cooked a turkey before he nods his head in an unsure mmmm mannner.The best thing about Bean the movie is the  for once it is the Americans who are made to look stupid. Whereas in many movies the British are the joke being portrayed as posh in Bean it the Americans who are laughed at for being simply to stupid to realise this so called doctor bean is in fact not a doctor.On hearing Mr Bean was hitting the big screen I was at first very concerned that it would not work for him to talk . However many of the funniest lines are when he does open his mouth such as when he calls a 50 million dollar painting a big picture of an old bat.Very recommended "},{"Title":"Average but warm-hearted comedy","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bean is the average but warm-hearted, large screen adventure of Rowan Atkinson's bumbling but strangely likable character.With a smörgåsbord of talent behind this film, there are a few genuine laughs but, sadly, they're few and far between. This film could have been so much better in the hands of another director. Mel Smith appears to have been on cruise-control making this movie. It's a case of comedy by numbers and the film never seems to shift gear.The always amusing Peter MacNicol is excellent as the suffering David Langley and provides the perfect foil to Atkinson's Bean.An average comedy movie, it's worth a viewing if there's nothing else on the television. "},{"Title":"Bean may not have the magic, that the t.v show had, but it's still a great family film, and miles above, Bean's Holiday.","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I have always enjoyed Bean. I always thought it was criminally underrated as well. Now let me just state, I did enjoy Bean's Holiday quite a bit, but I was kinda disappointed with it, considering it's suppose to be the last of Bean. Yes it still has too many adapted scenes, from his T.V show, but what I enjoyed about this movie, was the movie itself. Bean is a little different in this one. He's not quite as mean-spirited as he is in the t.v show, in fact he has a big heart, which we rarely see in his t.v show. What really makes a lot of the movie is Rowan&Peter MacNicol's chemistry, together. Rowan of course is the goofy one, with Peter playing the straight man. They play off one another so wonderfully, and give many hilarious moments together. Some may have disliked the changes to having Bean speak a bit in this film, and while they do have a point, I thought it added a little bit of spark to the film, it was different, and gave the film laughs. With so much vulgar comedies out now a days, Bean is a refreshing change of pace.There are a few vulgar moments, but it's all good-natured. The funniest of the scenes in my opinion, had to be when Bean goes to turn the taps on, and splashes water on his pants, to where it looks like he's Peed himself. I won't spoil the rest, but rest assured, it's a screamer. What I also enjoyed more about Bean, then Bean's Holiday was it's much more like the t.v show, then the sequel was. Bean's Holiday never really felt like Bean, besides Bean had the most important ingredient in the ending, we got to see Teddy!. Bean is light-hearted, with great slapstick all around. I'll take anything of Bean I can get, which is why I enjoyed Bean's holiday, more than I should have.Performances. Rowan Atkinson is terrific as Bean. He's added another pro to his Bean shtick, speaking!. I thought having him speak, would ruin a lot of the experience. Thankfully it gave the film a lot of laughs. Peter MacNicol is a very multi talented person. Here he plays a wonderful straight man, with some of the film's funniest lines. He was just as big a key as Rowan was. Pamela Reed does fine with what she had to do as the wife. Burt Reynolds has a hilarious cameo, as the general. Andrew Lawrence is actually decent as Kevin. As I have stated in many review, I hate kid actors, but he was rather likable. Harris Yulin is a likable character actor. Here he is great as Mr.Grierson. Tricia Vessey is highly unlikable as Jennifer. I found it very hard to garner any sympathy from her. Richard Gant is hilarious as the detective, and stole many of the scenes he was in. Sandra Oh and Larry Drake have small roles.Bottom Line. Bean is the perfect family entertainment. Fellow Bean fanatics will find much to enjoy, and people who aren't too familiar with Bean's humor, this would probably be a good starting point for you. Highly recommended.8/10 "}{"Title":"Sometimes quite funny, but still disappointing after the TV show","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Despite only having fourteen episodes, Mr. Bean was a VERY successful TV series, developing a well-deserved reputation for its excellent visual humour! Two years after the show's demise, it was decided that it was time to bring Rowan Atkinson's character to the silver screen. The result was Bean (a.k.a. Bean The Ultimate Disaster Movie), but unfortunately, this didn't turn out to be nearly as good as the classic TV series, and has disappointed many fans, including me.Mr. Bean works as a caretaker for England's Royal National Gallery, and is one lousy employee (as one would probably assume), constantly sleeping on the job! Because of this, the board of directors plans to fire him, but the chairman will not permit this. The Grierson Gallery in Los Angeles has just purchased the famous Whistler's Mother painting, and curator David Langley has requested that the Royal National Gallery sends an art scholar to make a speech at the unveiling of the painting. Since the board of directors can't fire Bean, they see this as an opportunity to get him out of their lives, at least temporarily, so they send him, under the name, Dr. Bean! David Langley has no clue that Bean is not a doctor, nor is he even an art expert, and the painting could now be in danger because of him! Not only that, the presence of the Royal National Gallery's terrible employee may also threaten the future of poor David's job and family! This movie's main problem is that it simply isn't nearly as consistently funny as the TV series. There are quite a few funny parts, I can't deny that, but I think most of them only made me smile or snicker, not enough big laughs, which there are a lot of in the show! Also, some gags from the show are repeated in this movie, and were done better the first time. These include Mr. Bean falling asleep while sitting down and gradually falling onto his knees and head (I guess that one is not as funny when nobody else is in the picture), and getting his head stuck in a turkey dinner (the main reason why it's not as funny this time is probably because the turkey isn't as big). Now, this movie did introduce some new and funny gags, but none of them can match some of the priceless ones in the show. None of the other characters really add much to the humour, and sadly, Mr. Bean cannot steadily carry it all by himself throughout the entire thing. Towards the end, I've found the film gets a bit tiring.Overall, I would say Bean was not a bad first attempt to bring the world-renowned walking disaster to the silver screen, but hardly a good one, either, they certainly didn't completely pull it off. I am only one of many fans who have been disappointed by it to some degree. I certainly don't think it's something to watch for non-stop laughs over and over again, and that's pretty much how I would describe many of the short sketches, which I'm sure many would agree with. I think most fans of the show would at least find SOME laughs in this movie, but it seems that some fans hate it, so that's certainly not a guarantee. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie based on an awesome TV show","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I grew up watching Mr. Bean when I was little on HBO and I LOVE(D) IT!! Still a die-hard fan today. I remember my dad rented this movie for me when I was 6 years old and I cracked up for hours!! This movie also has a great plot involving Mr. Bean going to L.A. to baby-sit Whistler's Mother, a well-known painting who has finally returned to America at last for 2 months after his bosses fire him for not doing his job at the Royal National Gallery. I would have to say, if you love Rowan Atkinson and Mr. Bean and have never seen this movie before, I'd say WATCH IT! An excellent movie for the whole family (and friends)!!! A film every Mr. Bean fan should see!!! 10/10 a hilarious movie. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended for PMT and Bad Mood Days","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  In Los Angeles, the Grierson Gallery makes the most expensive acquisition of its history, the painting Whistler's Mother, from the Musee d'Orsay of Paris. The direction of the gallery requests the presence of an authority from the British Royal National Gallery for the opening solemnity. The board of the British gallery, trying to get rid off Bean, sends him to USA. The young American executive David Langley (Peter MacNicol) assumes that the clumsy Bean is a great authority in Arts, and invites him to stay at his home. It is unnecessary to say the confusions that he gets on in USA. I am not a follower of the character of Mr. Bean, but yesterday I laughed a lot. The silly story is so funny, that should be recommended for PMT and bad mood days. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) ` Mr. Bean &#150; O Filme' (`Mr. Bean &#150; The Movie')  "},{"Title":"Not a patch on the TV series, but a worthy film regardless","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The TV series is a classic of a comedy series, so naturally this film had a lot to live up to. It comes close, but overall it isn't a patch on the TV series. Starting with the few I had, the plot is rather generic and somewhat predictable in areas too, and I think while making an effort to stick to the spirit of the series is rather thin for the running time. Also some of the melodrama is rather sappy for my tastes. On the other hand, the film does look great, so is the soundtrack, the physical comedy is laugh-out-loud-funny, Peter MacNicol is good in his conventional role and Rowan Atkinson is brilliant as Mr Bean. All in all, there is much to enjoy but it does fall short of the series. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A pleasant motion picture fare for Mr. Bean but the lack of consistent humour and some predictable areas make it too flawed.","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Mr.Bean has been big in TV back in 1990 in the television series debut then. Though it wasn't very funny, it certainly was entertaining and the lack of Mr.Bean's speaking made it easy for to be understood by people in various regions.It is shown that his job is a museum guard at the (Royal) National Gallery. I suppose he used (too much) time in his hands elsewhere from the film. His employers want to get rid of him for his ignorant ways in his occupation. They send a painting known as Whistler's Mother to an art gallery in Los Angeles along with Mr.Bean there along as Dr.Bean. He meets and supposedly befriends a curator named David Langley, who offers him to his house along with his family. As usual, mayhem occurs by Mr.Bean.It is an entertaining film, it has humorous and imaginative areas but it's not quite clever as the near eponymous man. Some non intellectual humour like Mr.Bean moving up and down on an air dryer to dry a wet spot on his trousers gives a possibly sexual impression, a man who also used the men's toilet there saw him and probably thought of that. Mr.Bean talks more in here than the TV series, the animated TV series or the 2007 film Mr.Bean's Holiday. He spoke in full detail a speech about the painting near the end of the film but hesitated a little during it.The plot is sometimes generic. It could have been something epic yet as comical as the TV series. Going to America would have been better as an episode or a TV film. Some of the best moments like Mr.Bean restore the Whistler's Mother(as he damaged it by sneezing on it. He wiped it but caused blue ink on it from a pen spill on the tissue. He takes the painting to a room and fixes it with a chemical. It cleans the painting however soon liquidizes it or something, he wipes but then smudges the face of it entirely) by household items although he used a poster for the picture but these still are rare moments.Bean is an enjoyable film with a handful of funny, entertaining moments. Though it only has the shadow of the TV series it was based from and it would not appeal to everyone. It is still a worthy collection for Mr.Bean fans and is also not that bad. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Well, it seems that this film hangs in the balance of being a good film, or a bad one.  I really don't know...I kind of did want to see it considering the hilarious TV show that I never stopped watching back in the day, but seeing it wasn't too pleasant.  There aren't that many funny gags like in the show and Bean isn't really acting like he does in the show.  I think I've only laughed a couple of times seeing this film, and yeah - it's ok, I just don't know how to rate it (I'd probably give it a 5 out of 10).  The unseen scenes at the end of the video are what would have made this film good, especially the scene where Bean drives his mini through a mall!  The feature song, I Love L.A., is amazing, and both the music videos on the video are quite good, this song should have been in the charts!  Well, Rowan Atkinson has had some success with motion-pictures, and this one is ok IMHO.  Unless you REALLY want to have it to add to a collection or something, I'd suggest renting it to see what you think first. "},{"Title":"Atkinson's hapless Bean hits the big screen.","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" No getting away from it, to fully immerse oneself with this comedy it really helps if you are familiar with the character of Mr Bean in the first place. Rowan Atkinson is a British comedy genius, an unassuming man in real life, his comedy creations such as Edmund Blackadder, Inspector Fowler and Mr Bean have had the British Isles in raptures for many a year. With this here big screen debut for Mr Bean the timing was right, American audiences got something new to have a look at and Britain got an extended TV episode before the joke wore thin. Job done then, the gags work well, from embarrassing water stain moments to an exploding turkey, the laughs are there for the discerning film fan. But if it has a rewatch factor then one can't be sure, yet this film prompted a sequel in 1997 as Mr Bean went on vacation, so in that, this film made its mark for sure.But ultimately you can surely only have so much of Mr Bean.......6/10 for the irrepressible work of Rowan Atkinson. "},{"Title":"Don't bother.  Not worth it.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"    The British sit-com Mr. Bean was so much better than this ridiculous monstrosity.  In this movie version Bean is a man who sleeps on the job and attaches himself to a family.  Along the way he gets entangled with art theives and actually ruins the painting he tries to recover.  The only funny part was when he made that theme park ride go too fast.    If you're a fan of Mr. Bean, stick with the sit-com.  This movie's humor and antics are too immature and vulgar. And the family's kids were stereotypical to the tenth degree.  Bean the movie is just not worth it.  It's a major disappointment.  Get The Full Monty instead.  Please Mr. Bean fans, turn your back on this movie. "},{"Title":"Rowan Atkinson is brilliant","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  When Rowan Atkinson was the focus of a scene, the movie is great.  He is absolutely brilliant!  Unfortunately, too much time is spent with the other (annoying) actors.  Still, the movie is worth viewing just to see Beanie in action! "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Disaster is That Beans Make You Fart.","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bean The Ultimate Disaster Movie (1997) Dir Mel Smith / Cast Rowan Atkinson, Peter MacNicol, Pamela Reed, Burt Reynolds, Harris Yulin To understand Mr. Bean, one has only to observe. He appears simple yet his lifestyle is complicated. When late for work and no time for coffee, he puts a table spoon of coffee mix in his mouth followed by sugar, milk and hot water. Title indicates the mess people often make without thinking, such as making this film. He is chosen to represent his country in America where an expensive rare painting is on display. He is arrested at the airport for faking gun play, which was real swift. Upon moving in with a family he wrecks innocent havoc forcing the wife and children to leave. Ninety minute version of the T.V. show with direction by Mel Smith on the same level. Rowan Atkinson as Bean is sometimes funny but often tiresome. Maybe it has to do with the fact that the character is a moron. Peter MacNicol and Pamela Reed are flat as the couple who invite Bean into their home. He will wreck havoc on their home but not nearly as much as this film will play on their careers. Finally there is Burt Reynolds in what can only be described as a desperate career move. Those that enjoy the TV segments may wish to stick with that since this film isn't any funnier. It is a bigger disaster than its title gives it credit for. Score 2 / 10 "}{"Title":"One of My Favourites!","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I have been a die-hard Mr. Bean fan my whole life, seeing every episode countless times. Bean is the first movie made about the character, which I have seen countless times and never gets old. While this one was awesome, Rowan Atkinson made a sequel to this in 2007 where he tried to make it more like the show. That was a disaster. This was a success.Bean received a lot of flack for not transitioning well to the big screen because of actual dialogue spoken throughout. I will agree that the show was better, but this movie isn't far behind it! While there is dialogue, Mr. Bean stays silent and mumbling. The movie is about him living with a family in LA so of course people will talk! But since Mr. Bean himself stays the same, there's really nothing to worry about. What made the show so timeless was there was virtually no talking by anybody. This is a movie, so of course there would be changes. Mostly to differentiate from the show.Bean shows what he does for a living, which is not explained in the show. He works at an art museum as a caretaker who mostly sleeps on the job. That's just like him to do. They show him sleeping, which mirrors the church episode he falls asleep in. Bean features some of the same gags taken from the show. The rest of the staff wants him gone, for he is the worst employee the gallery has ever had, but is defended by the chairman of the board. Instead, they send him to America to unveil and give lectures on Whistler's Mother, recently bought by an art museum in Los Angeles. His host, David Langley (MacNicol), thinks he is a scholar and allows him to move in with his family for the time being. During his time there, Mr. Bean destroys everything in his path, including everything important in David's life. Can Mr. Bean fix his mistakes?All of the recycled gags found here are almost as funny as when they were first seen in the show. In the show, they were unexpected which made them more funny. All of the new gags make for this to be just as funny as the show. Another funny thing in this is we see what Mr. Bean's first name is Mister! In the sequel to this, it says his first name is Rowan. Either way, seeing his first name is awesome. Bean has a better look to it than the show. It takes place in LA, which is a beautiful and more glowing city. Plus there's the acting by Atkinson and the rest of the cast is great. Peter MacNicol is a very underrated and talented actor who shines as brightly as David. Mr. Bean's rampage takes a major toll on him in very funny ways. Their friendship and the chemistry between them is a joy to see, as it helps understand why hasn't gotten fired from his work in England. When Mr. Bean gives his speech during the unveiling, he add-libs the whole thing for about two minutes without stopping the longest he has ever spoken. It is short, sweet, and touching. While he hasn't got a clue about the painting, he does his own interpretation which comes out as a wonderful monologue that sears the heart. "},{"Title":"Bean wears thin","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The board of the Royal National Gallery in London wants to fire caretaker Mr. Bean (Rowan Atkinson) but the chairman defends him. To get rid of him, they send him to the Grierson Galley of Los Angeles which had just purchased Whistler's Mother. George Grierson (Harris Yulin) assigns curator David Langley (Peter MacNicol) to care for Bean. He brings Bean into his home for the two month stint.This is asking for a lot from Mr. Bean. It's a full length movie and they've sent him to America. Bean's antics wear thin after awhile. It's not Bean's style to stay for so long. It was probably necessary to go to America for an international release although going to New York would have been filled with more possibilities. The other problem is that the gallery feels very fake and very boring. Bean is better served to do his thing on the street. Going to an amusement park is not it. The family running away robs it of more possibilities. They even redo the turkey gag as well as others. Peter MacNicol is a perfectly fine actor but he's no leading man. The TV show is much better. "},{"Title":"Simple concept, but executed extremely well","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Rowan Atkinson allegedly dislikes this movie because it failed to capture the spirit of the Mr. Bean TV-series. Frankly, I don't understand that at all, because there's really not much different about the character here. He talks a little bit more, he's a little more dynamic but honestly, how else are you going to make a feature film about this guy? You could say that 2007's Mr. Bean's Holiday was a bit truer to the source material, but to me this one is funnier, gives the character more depth and actually makes you root for Bean (in Holiday he sorta creeped me out). This movie doesn't simply go from skit to skit, it actually bothers to set up a coherent story and THEN simply goes from skit to skit. The Bean movie isn't quite as classic as his brief sketches are, but for true as well as casual fans there's plenty of stuff to enjoy here. "},{"Title":"Mr. Bean finally come to America It was truly a disaster movie.  Still, it was pretty funny.","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" As a kid, I love Mr. Bean. This movie directed by Mel Smith was my first glimpse of the Rowan Atkinson's character and I thought it was hilarious at the time. It was one of the first British shows, I saw as a kid, since were hard to come by, in the U.S at the time. When, I finally got hold of seeing the show, I found out that most of the skits in the movie were recycled from the TV Show such as the turkey joke from the 7th episode of Mr. Bean, 1992's 'Merry Christmas Mr. Bean'. Another joke is the Mr. Bean popping a vomit filled bag is from 1992's sixth episode 'Mr. Bean Rides Again'. Even my favorite jokes like getting bored on a fast ride is from 1993's ten episode 'Mind the Baby, Mr. Bean' & the mishap with the painting is similar to 1990's 'The Library'. I was deeply disappointed to find these out as I thought these jokes were made for the movie. So I felt bad for European fans who thought they were getting something new with this 82 minutes movie, only to find out that it just a bunch of recycled jokes from the show. Still, this movie is still watchable, and I find myself time after time, watching its crazy humor. Bean The Movie is about Mr. Bean (Rowan Atkinson) who works as a London museum guard. He is about to get fired. However, the big boss mistakes him for a great art critic and sends Mr. Bean to America. The Gallery entrusted him to unveil the priceless painting, Whistler's Mother to the American Art Gallery in Los Angeles. In America, Mr. Bean stays with David Langley (Peter MacNicol), the man in charge to make sure no mishaps happen during the unveiling. What we doesn't know is that the man, he's in charge of taking care of, is a complete moron. While the original choice, Steve Martin couldn't play David Langley. Peter MacNicol did an amazing job as the straight man in the gags. I love his reaction to every calamity from anger to despair. There is something comical coming from him. My favorite is David reacting to the painting. That had me dying laughing at the floor. Also, it didn't hurt to see a cameo by Burt Reynolds as General Norton as he was given some good one-liners. About Rowan, he strikes me as one of those comedians that you either completely love or completely hate, because how annoying clumsy and mean-spirited, Rowan is as Mr. Bean. The humor was pretty childish with a lot of gross slapstick humor, but nothing too bad for the children. It was rated PG-13. One of the biggest complain of the movie from fans is how Mr. Bean speaks intelligibly, albeit with apparent difficulty, as opposed to his frequent mumbling in the TV show. In my opinion, I thought it was alright. Although he has very little dialogue in the film, Mr. Bean's expressions and antics are priceless. One thing, I love about the film is the soundtrack. The film's original score was by Howard Goodall was great. The film score is utterly beautiful, and I think it's underrated from music fans! It's way too good for this film. Other non-original songs were also featured, in particular The Beatles' Yesterday sung by Wet Wet Wet and OMC's version of Randy Newman I Love L.A.. The movie had some pretty good smart, in depth emotional scenes, that was surprising from a silly comedy. Get the DVD for a lot of delete scenes material that is also pretty hilarious. Bean would later get another movie in 2007, Mr Beans Holiday, which was a little truer to the original series, but this movie is far better than that movie. This movie is just flat-out fun. I think Peter MacNicol's character, David Langley sum up the film for me. I don't know what to say about Bean. He is clearly a force ten disaster area, but God help me, I like him. "},{"Title":"Not as Good as the Series but Very Funny and Easy to Enjoy,","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bean is a good movie with a decent storyline and a very good comedic cast.It certainly isn't the comedy gold that the television series is but it's still very enjoyable and you will laugh out loud a lot.My biggest problem was that Mr Bean spoke too much in this movie, he's suppose to be a silent character who myth say a few words every now and again,but in this he actually has full lines and even a while speech at one stage.Rowan Atkinson did do his best as Mr Bean and delivered plenty of solid laughs and I really liked Peter MacNicol as well as the voice of reason.The movie is very different to the television series and fans will definitely be disappointed,but if you really enjoy watching Rowan Atkinson play Mr Bean in any aspect then you should definitely check out Bean. Mr Bean heads to Los Angeles to return a famous painting from a museum in England back to America.He stays with a family that he breaks up with his own stupidity without even realizing. "},{"Title":"Decent little movie, not as good as the original show.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Mr Bean, Rowan Atkinson's most iconic role. There was clearly going to be a movie because the child-like antics of the character clearly was popular enough. In my eyes it doesn't translate well to the screen but this is certainly worth a watch.The plot of this movie is that Mr Bean (of ALL people!) is asked to present a speech on Whistler's portrait of his mother in America. The person who is curating also has the idea to have him stay with his family.So the plot is extremely thin. If you've seen the show you might know what to expect. I enjoyed Rowan Atkinson as Mr Bean and everyone does their absolute best but there are a few complaints.Firstly. Mr Bean is a character that relies on pure physical comedy and not really that much else. His child-like antics are okay to watch for 30 minutes but this is nearly 90 minutes. It does get tiring after a while.Aside from that this is not that bad. It isn't anything special but it isn't unwatchable either. If you like the TV show then this is certainly worth a try. "},{"Title":"Bean is here","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bean is a really great comedy to watch. The premise is really great, and tell me if your going to like this; Mr.Bean works at the Royal gallery of London, and his bosses want to fire him, but is denied by the chairman, desperate to get rid off him they send him to America to review whistler's mother, that the Art Gallery in Los Angeles. Now what I love about the movie is the humor, they keep the nostalgia of Mr.Bean, they still have the turkey gag, that is great, they even have the blowing up an airsickness bag gag to, and bits with Mr.Bean are funny, like the bit where he mistakenly flips people off the people in LA. The flaw with this film is the family, they pretty much find him weird when they first meet him, and also judge him before they even meet him and saying that British people are wried. But its still is Mr. Bean, if you know and like Mr. Bean, you'll love this film. "},{"Title":"He looks like a fruit cake to me","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bean was a huge part of my childhood. I'd watch it almost as much as Mrs. Doubtfire so I'm going to be extremely bias in my opinions. Sorry. We all know that Mr.Bean is a love it or hate it character (how could anyone hate?) I for one, LOVE Mr.Bean and find his farcical, childish and downright simple behaviour absolutely hilarious. We all know that doing a film based on a TV series isn't always such a great idea too, but here Bean absolutely pulls it off. The only thing wrong with the film is that is simply isn't long enough. Watching all the fantastic deleted scenes devastates me that they didn't include them in.Bean is one hilarious sequence after another, with actually a surprisingly great plot and some nice character development on the Langley family. Frankly is you the handkerchief scene doesn't make you laugh (eat you heart out Othello!) or even the drying the wet patch scene and the scene after that, then you know that Mr.Bean is not for you. The idea of Mr.Bean destroying America's greatest painting is a stroke of genius and it really is a hilarious sight to behold, as well as conveying a feeling of absolute disastrous terror! Bean also has a really fantastic sweeping score that I think deserves to have been Oscar-nominated! Rowan Atkinson also puts on another faultless performance as the character, and whilst the film isn't exactly perfect, it's still an absolutely hilarious and entertaining farce that flies by. So please don't get all superficial about Bean because it does exactly what it sets out to do. "},{"Title":"This is hilarious","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw this and could not stop laughing. I liked it because they took things from the TV show and put it in the movie. Spoilers. The way he messed up the painting was one of the funniest thing I had ever seen. The random underwear in the oven scene was so funny. The tissue up his nose is funny. There are so many more things that are in this movie that make me laugh all the time. When ever you see Mr. Bean in a situation where is alone that a major indication something very funny is about to happen. When he is mistaken to be a genius when he knows very little about paintings is always funny. The shower scene is great. This movie is packed with humor that is just as hilarious as it was the first time when watching it multiple times. The painting scene will defiantly cause a serious amount of laughter. This is my favorite comedy. This is very good. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!!!!......Bean....as marvelous as always...!!!....","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I couldn't believe when I saw the review that this movie was rated at a mere 5.9!!!!!.....I am a BIG fan of the Mr. Bean TV series and if you have seen it, you will know that Rowan Atkinson pulls off a splendid performance in each and every episode.As it is said for Tom and Jerry, it can be rightly said for Mr. Bean that action speaks louder than words.....Each and every Bean episode is filled with hilarity and Atkinson manages to do all that just be speaking a handful of words which is not the case with many modern day comedy shows where a lot of dialogs are needed.My suggestion is that if you are looking for a really nice movie with a lot of laughs and no complicated dialogs, RENT THIS ONE!!!!....It will be much more fun if you see if with someone who likes to laugh!!.....Mr. Bean ROCKS!!!..... "}{"Title":"Disappointment! Hardly hitting Average!","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" When comedy was ruled by Jim Carrey back in the 90s, this movie was quite a welcome change. Although she does not deliver as much as we expect for a Bean movie! When Rowan Atkinson and Peter Macnicol (Ally Mcbeal, 24) team up together laughter does happen. Atkinson in particular is excellent; however I feel if he spoke more rather than stick to his silent movie approach the movie would have been more successful than it is. Expectations were quite high back in 1997 when this initially took over the cinemas and what feedback it got back in the day I am not very familiar with. No introduction is needed on this one. Since the British TV show Mr. Bean was aired in 1990, Bean has been a household name and the chances are a majority of the entire world has seen at least one episode of him. This wondrous story of a Man child is a creation of Rowan Atkinson himself. So what can you expect you pack it all up into one movie?Mel Smith, who took up the screen play that was done by Rowan Atkinson, is given a fairly arduous task I must say. This script is not the sharpest script written by Atkinson based on Mr. Bean. His intended humor was obviously that of the acting of Bean. However for those who are hardcore fans of the entire Mr. Bean franchise would have preferred a more original adaptation of the character. Something that will be done in the future with Johnny EnglishMr. Bean (Rowan Atkinson) a caretaker at the British Royal National Gallery dodges a bullet when it is decided by the directors to send him to Los Angeles instead of firing him. The drawing of Whistlers Mother is apparently returning back to where she belongs - The United States. When David Langley (Peter Macnicol) decided to select a British art scholar instead of Bon Jovi to speak at the grand unveiling of the drawing, little did he know that Dr.Bean (he isn't a doctor really- I am sure you will figure that on your own) was what he has signed up for? The mayhem begins in flight when Bean pops a bag of vomit on a first class customer during cruise. Only Bean can make such a mistake. Whilst Bean is in flight, Langley is trying to convince his son and daughter about the scholar staying over at their place during his visit to LA. Alison Langley (Pamela Reed) who is not too thrilled about the whole idea gives her husband the benefit of the doubt. Soon they are about to find out how wrong they all were.Now it all is clear to me and now I am beginning to understand what viewers felt back in 1997. Disappointment! Hardly hitting Average!Title BeanDirected by Mel SmithStarring Rowan Atkinson & Peter MacnicolRated PG13 for risqué humorRating 05/10 "},{"Title":"Bean rocks!","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember watching this film back in 2002, when my dad got it on video. I was only 5 then but I can remember I loved it and couldn't stop watching it. This film's great. Rowan was marvellous as Mr Bean. There's no other man for the job. His acting and all his facial expressions were just brilliant. The gags were hilarious! I practically killed myself laughing. Like Mr Bean's incident with the painting, that was classic. Best part in the movie.Overall, this is one of my favourite childhood movies. Now we don't have the video anymore, it's a bit sad but I'm glad we still have a copy of Johnny English. Defiently recommend. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bean (1997, Dir. Mel Smith) Even though he works only as a caretaker, Britain's Royal National Gallery just can not get rid of the clumsy Mr. Bean (Atkinson). That is until a Los Angeles Art Gallery requests assistance from the best man in Britain. This is the perfect opportunity for Britain to get rid of Mr. Bean and to unleash LA with the same problems.Mr. Bean is brought to the big screen and placed all the way in America. Although the country is different, this doesn't limit the comedy at all. There are some classic moments featured, as Atkinson continues to play the role perfectly.I've got nothing against Jon Bon Jovi. The man has had two great hairstyles in the last ten years, which is an achievement not to be sniffed at. But so far as I know, Mr Jovi knows absolutely nothing about 19th-century Impressionism. &#150; David Langley (Peter MacNicol) "},{"Title":"Funny Atkinson in watchable feature debut of Mr Bean","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a very manic feature with Rowan Atkinson reprising his television persona for the big screen. His Mr Bean is far too talkative (by Bean's TV standards that is) and the film plays more like an American sit-com. Still, there's plenty of humor. In fact, watching Bean's antics in a police station is probably worth the price of admission alone. Peter Macnicol is saddled with the conventional role. One drawback of the film is it attempts to give a human face to Bean's antics. This leads to a few sappy scenes of unwanted melodrama. Otherwise, its worth a watch, specially at home.Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm a big fan of Rowan Atkinson and he does a great job in this movie. This movie has a lot of humor in it and if you compared it to his other movies this one is the most hilarious. The only thing that I didn't like about this movie is why didn't they just fire bean and hire someone else after all the trouble bean has caused them. But that really doesn't matter because Bean is Bean and he brings a lot of humor into the movie and that is what I like about it and I don't think that there could be a better person that could replace Bean. So if you're a fan of Rowan Atkinson and you are looking to sit down and watch a funny movie this movie is definitely for you. "},{"Title":"A zany disastrous movie (unlike the lame Holiday)","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" One of the finest comedies. Definitely absolutely. The only thing I don't like about is one of the final songs (the nauseating We love him). But at least it is to the point here - so can't complain.There are too few really funny comedies out there nowadays to skip this one. Every significant scene is quite notorious and ridiculous Bean's arrival, Bean's mishaps in the entertainment zone, Bean's destruction of the painting, Bean's mission impossible, etc.Together with such comedies as Dumb & Dumber and Nutty Professor it belongs to the highest hierarchy of the funniest comedies ever.If only Mr Rowan Atkinson were always as good as here...A 10 out of 10 (a rare treat from top to toe; raised the mark from a 8 out of 10 after watching Mr. Bean's Holiday - that IS a turkey to be avoided at all costs). Thanks for attention. "},{"Title":"Definitely an uplifting movie!","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bean the movie is a great movie, simply because of the presence of Rowan Atkinson in his secondary familiar character other than Blackadder.I enjoyed the movie because I am a huge fan of anything Bean, and own every live DVD based on him. The new movie (Bean's Holiday) wasn't the same as this. It lacked some of the comedy flavour that this one had.All in all, a great movie guaranteed to make you laugh if your feeling low. I recommend this to anyone who is sullen.You won't be for long after the first 20 odd minutes.One for the collection if you don't already have it. "},{"Title":"Leonardo da Vinci was an American Basketball player?","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Imagine an American art gallery waiting for the best American painting, that is in France, and in consequence waiting for their most glorious moment. In charge of this transfer operation is David Langley (Peter MacNicol) who ask to the Royal National Gallery of London if they can send one of their employers to introduce the painting in Los Angeles. In the old Continent we have that now Mr. Bean (Rowan Atkinson) has a job at the Royal National Gallery but everybody there hates him, except the president. So the president is agree when everybody wants that Bean travels to America for some months, of course for the introduction of the Whistler's Mother. Now Mr. Bean is in Hollywood where everybody thinks that he is an erudite expert in art and also a doctor.That is the plot of the first feature film of Mr. Bean, released almost 11 years ago. I watched it for the very first time when I was very young when my father rented the VHS because my family loved the TV series. Over the past years Mr. Bean has become one of those shows that even if you already watched all the episodes (in this case there are only 14 episodes) every time that is on TV is just easy to watch it again and again and of course is also very easy to have a really funny and enjoyable time with this magnificent show. But for an odd reason this film was almost forgotten in Mexico, even that was a total success when it was released. This film wasn't available on DVD and I don't remember well the film itself. I only remember pretty well the very last scene with Bean and the original painting. But this year was finally released the Region 4 DVD and yesterday I get it in a double pack with Johnny English ( a film that I didn't like very much when I saw it in the theaters but definitely soon I'm going to give it one more chance) for only $9!Anyway, after watching again Bean now I can say that is really funny and probably the second best work of Rowan Atkinson, of course just behind the original Mr. Bean show. I must say that Bean looks really strange out of his original environment so I definitely understand of the critics to film saying that they didn't respect the fact that Mr. Bean is always the center of all the plots. Here is not just Mr. Bean and the first part of the film puts David as a man whose work depends on that painting so he want to be really good with Mr. Bean so he invites him to stay in his own home. That makes more difficult these days for David, now with all of his family angry and with his wife trying to abandon him. Bean in this part has some really funny moments and definitely is not what the people of Los Angeles expected. But that is just OK compared to the part after the final appearance of the painting. I feel a strange sensation every time Bean is near the painting just for imagine of the things that may happen. Of course the worst happens and the new face of the mother is really brilliant.The film's runtime is only about 82 minutes so after that we don't have a lot more, just the little performance of Burt Reynolds in my favourite scene of the film, of course for the great speech of Bean that is even kind of moving. The last sequence at the hospital at first looks just as excess and maybe to forced just to put Bean as a real doctor. But in the end is just as funny as satisfactory just like the last two hilarious scenes (Bean making finger to everyone and with the original painting) and also after the credits there is another hilarious moment with Bean.Conclusion Bean is just hilarious at times and just funny at others but I think that the fans of the show will have an enjoyable time with this film. By the way I didn't like the cover versions of Yesterday and Stuck in the Middle With You. "},{"Title":"Very Funny.","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I like Mr. Bean, better than those bleak parodies American who base their capacity comic sull'irony of the greatest successes of Hollywood. I hate the series own scary movie because I find it terribly vulgar and repetitive, without creative capacity, a real priority fritto misto. Rowan atkinson I find ingenious as to its capacity and facial expression. This film is very funny and vedibile. Many film comedians base their irony on vulgarity and bad language, he knows are the comic with the face just as the big players. Excellent comedy without vulgarity and very clean. It 'definitely a great comedian, sin that has produced so few films. Meriterebbe decidedly more numerous than those cacate parodies of American. Great Mr. Bean! "},{"Title":"Bean is one of those movies that gives you a good feeling!","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I've saw this film only a few times, and i enjoy it every time i watch it, it's much funnier than Johnny English which i reviewed earlier today, i guess my Valentine is movies!Bean is about the infamous, bumbling and very funny Mr. Bean who is chosen to go to L.A. for the showing of Whistlers Mother (a painting if you don't know already) surprisingly at an Art Gallery! While staying with his new best friend David Langly and his family, he makes their lives a misery but in the end, just like the old Norman Wisdom movies, he wins out in the end!So overall i really liked this movie, it's real funny and i really recommend it!8/10 "}{"Title":"Funny","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bean is a typically odd product of British humour and Rowan Atkinson shows with the character of Bean that he is a great actor- he can go from the sophisticated Blackadder material to the sillier and stranger Bean without batting an eyelid.Those who are familiar with the series will recognise a couple of jokes in the film- without giving anything away- turkeys.Still, the jokes are still funny and are tweaked to keep them fresh.Bean will keep kids and adults alike amused with the pure insanity of it all. Atkinson shines in every moment of the film, stealing the show with his antics- his facial expressions rival that of Jim Carey's and he has a fantastic way of expressing a range of thoughts without ever speaking. The film is nicely paced and ties all the threads together come the end. Good stuff! "},{"Title":"Yet another underrated case!","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie does great justice to both its tagline The ultimate disaster movie as well as the entire Mr.Bean series which it attempts to emulate and follow. The storyline is extremely well written and executed. The acting is superb and Bean is more himself than ever before. Rest of the cast is pretty good too and fit their roles perfectly. Too bad there was'nt a sequel besides that spy film which cannot hold a candle to this. I just can't understand why people have to bring down this light hearted film? Obviously the ability to nitpick and criticise is so much easier than actually appreciating something. God help humanity. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable...","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" If you're looking for the kind of movie, that you can just sit at home, and not have to think for two hour, but rather continually laugh...than this is the right movie to rent.Bean, originally a t.v. series in the U.K., is a delightful, clean and completely enjoyable film that you can watch with the whole family, and everyone will laugh.It's really too complicated to explain Bean. You must watch it for yourself, because it's really inexplicable. All I can say is that it's funny, and delightful to watch. If you've seen it more than five times however, like I have, it's best to wait a year or two before watching it again, as it can get a bit redundant after a while.However, I do recommend it to anyone who likes well-written comedy, and good physical stunts. It's hilarious, and it still makes me laugh whenever I see it. I think everyone can really enjoy this kind of film. "},{"Title":"Hilariously entertaining!","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I don't know who wouldn't love this movie, but my sisters and I loved it! My mom was surprised that we were actually watching a movie with a plot. We laughed throughout the entire film and wanted more when it ended. Both actors are well known to American and British television and movies and did their part in making this movie worth watching. Compared to the other movies out that year, I have yet to see one that still makes me laugh thinking about it years later. Peter MacNicol and Rowan Atkinson both acted well together and separately had their own comedic attributes that made this film what it is. I've always loved a good comedy and got what I wanted when I saw this movie. See it for yourself and you won't be disappointed!! "},{"Title":"Bean is wicked awesome!!!!!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Oh, my God!!! I love this freaking movie and it's so freaking funny!!! Before I saw this movie, I thought I was gonna hate this movie, but I don't!!! I really love IT! The movie had f***in' awesome characters, Bean was more hilarious and more insecure, I mean, the movie was almost the same as the Mr. Bean television series. I love this goddamn comical movie because Bean was more insecure, he caused more trouble at the Langleys' house, and when he had to present the Whistler's Mother painting in the Los Angeles Art Museum, he wasn't really secure and he had the same, funny voice as his normal character, Mr. Bean in the television series. Rowan Atkinson is SO f***ing funny!!!!!!! Obviously a 10/10 "},{"Title":"The lovable mime","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a rather interesting movie, in which Mr. Bean is forced to become a hero to save others of his own blundering mess. And it works well.Although he doesn't say much (if anything at all) you can't help but feel for this guy. Here's a guy who is a total loser in real life, who has no friends, is very stupid and screws up even the simplest of tasks, ruining the lives of countless others for our own amusement- but he does have a good heart, which is his number one redeeming quality and makes him so lovable. He won't let others suffer from his mistakes. The performances by the other actors are also quite well done and the musical score by Howard Goodall (Mad Pianos) makes this movie very enjoyable.Sure, the plot itself is a bit predictable and simplistic at best. But it's very well executed and makes it worth the $5 you would pay to rent it at a video store. Not an Oscar winner by any means but definitely better than most crappy movies you see on cable television. "},{"Title":"The ultimate nerd on accidental destruction spree","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Rowan Atkinson has been a staple on British TV for many years. After a small number of Americans have seen some of the Black Adder, The Thin Blue Line and Mr. Bean episodes, Bean seemed to be the natural thing to drop onto America.A droopy and dim-witted British museum watchman, Mr. Bean was an unlikely dignitary to send along on an important mission. Through the power of the chairman of the board, however, Bean indeed is the one to accompany the $50M painting of Whistler's Mother, purchased as a gift by a wealthy American general, back home to America. A series of clumbsy mishaps culminate in the destruction of the priceless painting. Bean's host family have long lost hopes for their guest, wife and children already re-located to grandparents, and husband trying to explain in a nice way that things just weren't working out. The story has a happy ending, of course, and there are many bellylaughs along the way. This film should be particular fun for kids (8 & up). If you are a fan of British humor, Bean's for you! "},{"Title":"Best original sight gag.","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  One of my most enjoyed scenes was when he fell asleep in the chair at the art gallery.  Mr Bean's s-l-o-wwwwwwwwww, silent, unconscious descent from the chair to the floor is an original.  I've never seen this gag before. Fans of Mr Bean won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A ninety-minute vaudeville act.","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film is a surprisingly clever farce that features a show-stealing performance by Peter MacNicol. The plot is serviceable, but it exists, as one would imagine, solely to introduce Bean into a series of comic situations, and then capture his and MacNicol's reactions. Rowan Atkinson delivers the goods as usual, but I can't stop thinking about MacNicol's performance it was as brilliant a characterization of a straight man as I've ever seen. His rapidly diminishing sang-froid as Bean demolishes his family and career is hilarious, as is his final (long overdue) eruption when Bean defaces (literally) a $50 million painting that he's responsible for. There are four huge laughs in this film and numerous smaller ones, making it worth a rental (or even a personal copy).  "},{"Title":"BEAN THERE, SEEN THAT","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  *******SPOILER ALERT********************If you haven't yet seen MR. BEAN the tv series, you'll appreciate this movie a good deal more. If you're already familiar with the series, a few of the gags are re-enacted here (the barf bag scene as well as the turkey-head gag). Still, there is plenty of original material here to keep it from being a feature-film repetition of the series.Having seen most, if not all of the tv episodes, to me BEAN falls short in comparison. In spite of it's shortcomings it still is worth checking out-especially if you haven't seen the tv series.  In fact, see this one first and save the best for last.*** out of ***** "}{"Title":"Atkinson is the funniest man on the planet","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean is a very lovable character. Some of you do forget that his character wasn't made just for adults. The character is also for children to enjoy so it would be hard to find jokes that appeal to both, so some of you really need to think what you write before you write it. Anyway the film still seemed funny and once again British comedy proves to be a success all over the world.  "},{"Title":"Rowan Atkinson Is A Master Of Pantomime","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This U.S. film adaptation of the popular British TV series has Rowan Atkinson reprising his TV role as the hapless and inept Mr. Bean. The plot has to do with some American art collectors purchasing a famous painting and the curators sending their guard (Atkinson) along for the ride passing him off as an art expert. Mr. Bean never has any idea exactly what's going on most of the time and spends most of the film predictably but hilariously embarrassing himself and others (though naturally never realizing it). Fans of the TV series as well as fans of the old silent screen comedy stars should enjoy this. Atkinson's pantomime and facial expressions are hilarious.  "},{"Title":"Atkinson at his best, but apparently misunderstood...","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Tears kept falling along my face, as I watched the last 60 min. or so of this movie, out of the intense laughter it lead me to. Three aspects made me look for further details about the movie and seek other opinions on the subject 1 - The surprising quality of the direction (angles, pace, balanced exhibition of Atkinson's facial features and body postures); 2 - The also surprising fine performance by Peter MacNicol; 3 - The subversive, ironic, refined and intelligent criticism on America society, exposing naivety and arrogance alike in a no offense mood. As I read through other comments about the movie, I've noticed how some people wouldn't like it at all (specially Americans) and other (mainly Europeans) would grasp what I think was the above mentioned true sense of the movie laugh at America through a really idiot-looking (but just looking) European. To illustrate what I've just written, just remember the scene where Peter MacNicol shows himself much more worried about being fired, his wife leaving him or his daughter become a prostitute, rather than about art (which he tells us he dedicated his life to), upon knowing Atkinson had ruined the original Whistler's Mother.Bottom-line a must for everyone who enjoys watching fine non-politically correct humor associated to a super clown-like nonsense performance.  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedys.....","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  You can't get much better than Rowan Atkinson in a comedy movie. Never ending lasts from start to finish especially with Bean posing as a painting critic, or anything for that matter. No matter what he's acting as, Rowan Atkinson never fails to make you laugh. A really colourful movie with funny characters and a strong powerful plot. Worth renting, and beats a lot of other so called comedy's by far. Well done Rowan Atkinson.Overall 80% "},{"Title":"Good stupid comedy","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I actually like this movie.  Rowan Atkinson does a good performance as Bean and he is even better on the big screen, rather than on the small screen.  Peter MacNicol does good for his part and I enjoyed his character.  Bean is a kind of stupid, fifth or sixth grade humor.  It was good anyway.Overall the movie is a good stupid comedy.  Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hysterical, underrated film illustrating perfectly Murphy's Law whatever *can* go wrong, *will* go wrong.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I found this a hysterical, underrated film in which Whistler's Mother gets destroyed (and resurrected, after a fashion).I cannot think of a better illustration of Murphy's Law than this film, with matters relentlessly progressing from bad to worse to even worse. And then some more.Not really a belly-laugh comedy, but one that will inspire chuckles (and maybe squirms) long after. "},{"Title":"Don't let him near your mother (or Whistler's!)!!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I enjoyed this film - and practically everything Rowan Atkinson does.  It was silly, and not as funny as Mr. Bean the television series, but it was wholly entertaining, had very funny moments, and certainly worth watching! A definite must for all Bean fans - and a great rental if you like slap-stick comedy.   "},{"Title":"Worth It","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  All of the negative comments which surround and follow this are correct, but miss the point. The picture is worth collecting because it memorializes some of Rowan Atkinson's comedy. Atkinson is one of the great clowns who ever lived. The movie is a collectible for that reason.  "},{"Title":"Oof","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The BBC series was usually worth a smile.  This movie is worth a fire-bombing.Whereas the series was kind of clever by placing this odd, British everyman (kind of like Ziggy from the comics) in unusual situations, the movie is a series of Bean mugging and hamming his way through cut-away shots from a zero-dimensional family.  This is pathetic.Let me put it to you this way This movie is a giant, nut-filled turd. "},{"Title":"Mr. Bean's On The Screen!!","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS        Mr. Bean is in his very first movie! We all remember the zany antics he get's into on TV. In the movie, the Grierson Art Gallery in California has purchased the portrait of Whistler's Mother. Now the Royal Gallery in England must send someone to represent them. They decide to send their worst employee Mr. Bean, because they figure their loss is America's game.        Bean was now called Dr. Bean; An employee of the GriersonGallery, David Langley, says he'll let Dr. Bean stay at his house. His wife, Alison, totally does not approve, nor do his kids. He keepstelling them Dr. Bean is a genius of the very highest order.      On the airplane, Mr. Bean blows up a bag and pops it, though the second one he popped contained vomit; He arrived at the airport, and was immediately arrested because he pretended to conceal a gun.       Mr. Bean soon adapts to life in California. Everyone doubts Mr. Bean's strength, especially Alison, so she takes the kids and they leave for a while. So the next day, Mr. Bean and David go to an amusement park. Bean wreaks havoc on a fast ride and is arrested again. That night, Bean even prepares dinner for David's boss, Mr. Grierson and his wife. It was going to be turkey, but Mr. Bean got his head stuck in it and wore it like a face mask.        Next day, Whistler's Mother has arrived at the gallery!The only mistake that was made leaving Mr. Bean in a room alone with it. A chain of events leads to the ruining of one of the most treasured paintings in American history. Mr. Bean improvises as best he can. David sees the damage, then he and Mr. Bean go drink their sorrows away. David's life is really going down the tubes and Mr. Bean wants to help, so that night, he takes a plethora of supplies from hair dryers to laxatives and formulates a plan. He sneaks into the gallery and performs the Old Switcheroo. Next day, General Newton, who purchased the portrait, came. David was relieved to see the painting back to normal. But now, Dr. Bean had to give a speech. So Bean stood before the media and gave the speech of his life. Then the police arrive and report that David's daughter was in a motorcycle accident.       At the hospital, Bean is mistaken for a medical doctor. He saves the life of the detective, who was gunned down by a gangster, in an odd way, then he inadvertently saves David's daughter. So the next day, Bean does L.A. He even learns a new inappropriate finger sign and shows it off to everyone, despite the fact he has no idea what it means. He buys the Langleys gifts, then he heads to the airport. David says he can come back and visit any time...In the fairy distant future.        Mr. Bean is soon back at home, and has hung the wrecked Whistler's Mother on his wall!       I am a fan of Mr. Bean! This movie was pretty good. The Langleys were odd people. Alison was the original pain in the rear and seemed awful unfair to David, always bitching about something. I am NOTa big fan of Peter MacNicol, but he was okay in most parts of the movie. So it comes recommended by me!  "}{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was always a fan of the English Bean sketches. In fact I have 2 or 3 videos of his sketches. When I heard there was going to be a movie made about him, I thought it might be a drag like some TV series made into movies. Then I saw it and loved it.  WARNING! SPOILERS!Dr. Bean is a worker at an English Art Museum. The entire Museum is fed up and sends him as an escort to the USA with the famous French painting Winsler's Mother Or something. While in LA, he stays with a family who thinks he will be great. They are annoyed with him and the mother and two kids leave. Eventually, the father is annoyed, but sticks with him. Bean causes all kinds of trouble discovering new American things. When the painting arrives, he screws it up. Very funny movie. I give it 8 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Good, clean (sort of) fun","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a fun movie. Anyone disliking this movie because it doesn't break originality barriers is missing the point. This movie doesn't even try to be big or clever. It's just tries to be a traditional comedy movie. Those who didn't know about the original Mr Bean series probably won't find this film at all interesting. But Rowan Atkinson, possibly one of the best British comedians plays a very appealing and clever, if somewhat shy character. I used to watch the old Bean series back when I was 12, now I'm 18, when I saw this movie advertised I thought `Oh god, I've grown out of this rubbish.' Well, I sat down when this premiered, and I was really surprised. I thought some of the scenes were hilarious. Like for example, where he believes the middle finger signal is a greeting. Other scenes were rather shocking, you would never see such filth in the original series - like the scene where he appears to be having sex with a hand drying machine.  But then again, I've grown up, and probably didn't even know what this was trying to insinuate back then. If it is at all. Initially the thought of mixing Bean, an English character, with the American sense of humour seemed rather unappealing. I particularly hate American sitcoms. Without being disrespectful, I simply cannot stand them. It's the typical American guys eating pizza shouting `Duh!' every time someone does something wrong. I mean, is this all you do all day? But it seems like they got it just right here. They haven't dented Bean's spotlight at all with this conversion. Bean is a nice, fun, heart-warming tale. It will make a change from all these horror movies I've been watching lately. 3/5  "},{"Title":"My number 123 movie ( contains story + spoilers )","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean is my number 123 movie. It is very funny.The story  Mr. Bean ( Rowan Atkinson ) is a museum guard who behaves very silly during his work. The museum manager wants to get him rid of. So he sends him on a journey to a museum to the US. This museum asked them for a &#132;painting specialist who can christen the new famous painting of  ´Whistler´s mother´. He needs to have a place to go to, so Andy ( Peter McNicol ) takes him in. Andy is a painting specialist that works in the US museum. Andy´s family does not want to have Bean in their house, so his wife and his two kids go to their grandmother. So Andy has to manage himself with Bean in the house. He destroys about everything there is and he behaves very stupidly. One week later Andy´s family is back to check out if bean is still there, and he is. They quickly leave again to the grandmother. In the museum Bean is left alone with the painting, and you know what might happen.... But afterwards they use the copy of the painting to present it to the publicy. Bean does a good job in presenting it, because he does not use any technical terms, but just explains what it is and what it looks like, and he combines it with a touch of humor. While they are going to the hospital, where Andy´s daughter is, since she has had a motorbike accident, a policeman whom they know is hurt by a shot. After arriving in the hospital, bean gets the policeman back to life, and they think he is a doctor. So he is left alone with Andy´s daughter, and he gets her back to life by accident, although he does not know what to do. Andy´s family has some sympathy for him, and they start liking him. But finally he goes back to England, to continue doing his job.Bean is a very funny movie, and it is made for both kids and adults. Rowan Atkinson is as funny as always in his role of Mr. Bean, although this films concentrates more on the talking Mr. Bean, and not the faces pulling Mr. Bean, as we know him. But he does this job quite good too.All in all, I rated this film 9/10 and I do recommend it to comedy fans. It is very funny. If you have any questions, feel free to ask them. Cu, Rinho  "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The movie Bean, is mainly a compilation of the best skits from the short shows on BBC set into a crazy plot.Rowan Atkinson does an excellent job with his character and is probably one of the best physical comedians I've seen.I suggest that you see both the short episodes from the BBC and the movie. "},{"Title":"A silly but enjoyable film","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean's gift for mime is superb; he is great at movement comedy...He's a British Pee Wee Herman, in a way, and the film has some very funny sight gag moments...the only downside is Alison Langley, the annoying wife of Mr. Langley; she's constantly threatening to leave him/lock him out for little apparent reason.  She turns their two kids against Langley as well, and they carry on like smirky little snots...other than that, Bean himself is funny and worth the money... "},{"Title":"Hilarious if you watch it properly","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean, The Ultimate Disaster Movie, is actually quite very funny if you see it as a disaster movie, rather than a normal comedy. Like when his friend's wife calls him a guy from the planet Zog. He looks around him, wondering who she's referring to!!!It's a watch movie, more than it is a tell movie, so I'd recommend that you go and rent the video and watch it. "},{"Title":"As always, the original is better","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I guess the original series of any TV-series-adapted movie will always be better. After a long season of Mr Bean, you get to know his character and personality so well that when you watch the movie, you get a sense that you have been cheated out of the real Mr Bean. Most of the antics and comic acts in the movie does not ring true for the Mr Bean that most of us from  watching TV know. Yet, for all its flaws, at least it redeemed itself by casting Atkinson back as Bean, I mean, who else can play Bean but Atkinson??? Atkinson puts up a marvellous performance, given what he had to work with, but as usual, with his usual aplomb, he plunges into character with enthusiasm and graces the movie with his comic brilliance without the use of much words. Bean - you are average, but Mr Bean, you are a heck of a guy!  "},{"Title":"Not too shabby, pretty funny","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie wasn't too bad.  I liked it.  It could've been a little more like the TV series, but for the most part it was funny and had a decent plot. If you're in the mood for a wacky, silly movie, consider this one. "},{"Title":"Nothing spectacular, sometimes fun, but nothing to put your expectations to.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"                               **Sorry for some spelling mistakes**                              The BEAN-movie is at many times as a longtime-version as a TV-episode. The                               modern-refreshment is un-Beanish and not really that neccesary.                              But saying that this movie is bad is not really true. It had it's moments, but nothing                               spectacular.                               Mr.Bean gets off to USA, instead of a genious, and Peter McNicol is the one                               who has to take care of him. An idea that's not appriciated in his family. McNicol                               is fun, and Rowan Aktinson is also quite humourus. But, that was not a suprise.                               Not this movie either.                               5.5/10  "},{"Title":"Nothing spectacular, sometimes fun, but nothing to put your expectations to.","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  **Sorry for some spelling mistakes**The BEAN-movie is at many times as a longtime-version as a TV-episode. The modern-refreshment is un-Beanish and not really that neccesary.But saying that this movie is bad is not really true. It had it's moments, but nothing spectacular. Mr.Bean gets off to USA, instead of a genious, and Peter McNicol is the one who has to take care of him. An idea that's not appriciated in his family. McNicol is fun, and Rowan Aktinson is also quite humourus. But, that was not a suprise. Not this movie either. 5.5/10 "}{"Title":"Not extremely funny, but worth the watch.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  A lot of reminiscences from the popular Mr. Bean series, but some of the scenes are truly hilarious. Bean on the airplane and recieving a barfing back full of barf from a kid next to him and then Bean blowing it up and popping it we saw in one the Mr Bean series already, but the theme park incidents like tuning up the futuristic ride was really funny with all those people being thrown out of their seat. I'd give it a 6, it's by far not a non-stop laughing ride, like with every Mr Bean series, but since that was the last time Rowan Atkinson would impersonate the famous Mr. Bean, I think it's worth the watch and re-live some of the hilarious bits we all know we can expect from Mr. Bean. "},{"Title":"Could have had potential","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean, the movie takes one of the most renowned British comedians, Rowan Atkinson, in one of his most famous roles, which is subjected to the most imaginative and hilarious situations on T.V, yet is recycled into a mesh of previously used props, and pressed into a (yawn) boring plot.  Almost as good as watching Bean reruns. "},{"Title":"fun for all !!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  the film is just like the slogan says an ultimate disaster movie.but there were a few flaws.if these were corrected then it would have enhanced the performance of the film.rowan atkinson has done just the job.some scenes like the showing the dick sign in public and the aeroplane,airport and toilet scene are excellent.i am hoping that part 2 is made real soon! "},{"Title":"Yeah it's funny, but not as funny as the TV show.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean The Movie is a nice film about Bean coming to America and messing up things like he usually does.  Unfortunately he fails at that.  Bean is suppose to appear in numerous sketches where he messes up things in the movie.  Just like the TV series.  It's an okay film, but if they make a sequel (Mr. Bean Sees the World), make sure we have sketches of him doing different things that no one could ever do.  One more thing, BRING BACK TEDDY!  "},{"Title":"PG-13?","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have watched the TV show for a long time and when this movie first came out, I was expecting a funny, slapstick Bean movie with lots of sexual innuedoes. The reviews of this movie made it sound like it was so dirty with sexual and crude jokes.After seeing this movie, nothing could be further from the truth. The movie has nothing in it to even justify a PG rating. It is funny, but not as funny as I thought it would be. The movie is actually about Peter MacNichol and his family, not Bean.Parents Don't be fooled by those overprotective shallow idiots that rate these movies. This film should be rated G.  "},{"Title":"well put together","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have been a fan of Rowan Atkinson for many a year.  I mean, this is a man that does not need to speak for you to laugh.  And when I heard he was coming out with a movie I saw it.  And it is hilarious.  One thing about Mr. Bean's character is the facial expresions; I can sit and laugh for hours.  One thing is for sure though, the movie wasn't as funny as the TV show.  And I was rather disappointed at his chronic talking.  He doesn't talk that much in the show.  But I guess if you are writing a movie the main character has to talk a bit.  I have to congratulate the writer(I say writer first because I have a thing about not giving credit when credit is due to writers of movies everywhere.  It's a pet peeve, really.) and the director; and all the cast for putting one of the funniest TV shows into a great movie.   "},{"Title":"Jerry Lewis should sue","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Bean series has been described  in the media as an acquired taste,  which makes it sound like snails or  caviar.  Nothing as highfalutin' as  that.  Mr Bean is a kind of British Jerry Lewis.  He can't walk past  something without getting himself  completely tangled up in it.  He's  inept to the point of insanity.  The  movie is very funny in places if you  enjoy Jerry Lewis slapstick, which I do.  The best scene isn't given to  Bean at all, but to Peter MacNicol as the hapless American museum curator  the plot inflicts Bean on.  The poor  man's reaction to seeing what Bean  did to Whistler's Mother is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Mr. Bean as a genius dr. in art....","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The movie is fun. But the typical British humour of Rowan Atkinson doesn´t seem to fit in the USA. It belongs in the stiff-upper-lip-England. But... allright. Bean is in America, where he ruins all around him - a family and a famous painting... That's the plot of the film... But mr. Atkinson is a great actor, and he carries the film to be a fine comedy, but I still think the TV-shows of Mr.Bean was much better!  "},{"Title":"you love it or you hate it","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean is not your usual comedy. You either love it or you hate it. If you are the type of person who likes subtle humor and sophisticated jokes, this mixed bag of sight gags and physical (sometimes tasteless) humor is probably not for you. Despite what some critics have said, it's not Mr. Atkinson's performance that creates problems in the movie--it's the fact that the writers felt it necessary to bring others in, so that Bean's antics are played as a joke *against* him and ultimately the audience is laughing *at* him instead of *with* him. This is a mean thing to do. Rowan Atkinson is a very funny comedian in the Jim Carrey/Adam Sandler/3 Stooges vein, and it's hard to appreciate how funny he really is when the movie is set up as a joke against him instead of the vehicle for his talents it should be. It's at times painful to watch Mr. Atkinson's blundering here (unlike the tv show) because all remember that kid in grade school (or even perhaps were that kid) who got picked on just because others didn't understand and needed to pick on *someone.* So if you laugh at Bean, you feel kinda guilty too. A mean thing to do to the audience.  "},{"Title":"It is not even funny at all","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Based on the British sitcom of the same name when it was a true success in America when the movie version of Mel Smith's 1997 film based on the show with the same leading man turned out to stupid as can be. I mean the movie was not even funny during any scene and as well as making me not want to laugh with it, it was Smith's directorship that made me want to laugh at the movie. The only performance that was good was by the brief performance by Burt Reynolds that made me give the movie 2 stars instead of 1 star out of 10. The main reason why I think that this movie shouldn't have been made in the first place is because it was the director Mel Smith and the star to the movie that made made the movie just plain terrible especially because of his over the top performance. "}{"Title":"Just Doesn't Compare to the Show","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I will say, this movie does have its moments, but overall, you really cannot take a sketch show like Mr. Bean and turn it into a full length movie. Mr. Bean is funny because it involves the title character being unable to handle very simple, everyday tasks like a normal human being (plugging in a TV, or as they Brits would say, a Telly, going to the pool, pulling out a bag lunch). There is just too much happening in the movie, and there is a constant struggle between showcasing Mr. Bean's strange mannerisms and the plot itself.To sum it up, this is a good movie to watch on a rainy day on TV, but if you're looking for something to rent or buy, skip the movie and go with a season of the TV show. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Silly comedy has British art gallery guard Bean coming to Los Angelos as an art expert, although he knows so little about art that he thinks Leonardo Da Vinci is a basketball player. Atkinson's first attempt to bring his TV character to the big screen is rather disappointing due to a lame script that relies on sophomoric situations for forced laughs. The bar is set very low, with bathroom and vomit jokes. The title character's behavior is too inconsistent to be believable, as he veers from total buffoon (most of the film) to flashes of genius (the museum scene at night). The followup film, Mr. Bean's Vacation, is far better. "},{"Title":"Overcooked and silly, but quite enjoyable if you're in the right mood","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The main charm of the Mr. Bean TV series was that the action of each episode took place within a ten-minute time-frame, reducing the risk of making the character's deeds too extravagant or unrealistic. That's where the feature-length version eventually fails at a certain point it runs out of clever ideas and just keeps on going, hoping the protagonist's antics will be entertaining enough. Shame, because the first half of the movie may not be a comedy classic, but it is nonetheless very funny.The premise of the whole thing is Mr. Bean (Rowan Atkinson) has mysteriously managed to get a job at the National Gallery in London. His colleagues can't stand him (hardly surprising, considering he's essentially a five-year old trapped inside an adult body),and since firing the guy isn't an option (the boss doesn't agree), they decide to get rid of him by sending him to Los Angeles, claiming he's an art expert who will comment on the Grierson Gallery's latest acquisition the portrait of Whistler's mother. Naturally, Bean knows absolutely nothing about art, or any cultural item for that matter; instead, he's a master when it comes to causing disasters, and he will cause plenty of them, putting the marriage and career of his host (Peter MacNicol) at risk. As long as he is around, L.A. is no longer a safe place to go.Like many other comedies featuring stupid people, Bean The Movie has no hidden message or subtext for the audience to detect; its sole purpose is to entertain, and as long as it stays within the main storyline it succeeds. What Bean does in that context may appear excessively surreal to some, but thanks to Atkinson, who believes in the character and treats him like a normal person, making the performance transcend pantomime, the gags are consistently funny and, in their own way, believable. Once the film ventures elsewhere, however, it feels like most of the jokes were padded on just to increase the film's running time. The entire last section is like this, and even the main actor seems to be going on autopilot in those bits. As for the supporting cast, MacNicol does a decent job (although his character's belief that Bean might actually be able to do good things becomes less convincing as the story proceeds), while the only real big name, Burt Reynolds, is given a cameo that can have been great on paper, but sadly doesn't allow him to do much on screen.So, genius or rubbish? I'd say somewhere in between watching Bean won't affect the viewer's life in any significant way, but the film is fun enough to justify a look on a boring afternoon. "},{"Title":"Art for Bean's sake.","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Maybe it doesn't quite live up to the standards set by the TV show, but Bean definitely has its moments. Portraying the title character (Rowan Atkinson) getting called to Los Angeles for the unveiling of Whistler's Mother and wreaking havoc, the movie is basically an excuse for a series of gags. Interestingly, Peter MacNicol plays an art freak, fairly similar to his character from Ghostbusters II. If you know the show, then you'll know what to expect here. Also starring are Harris Yulin and Burt Reynolds; I almost wish that they could have had Mr. Bean and Burt Reynolds's character spoof a scene from one of Reynolds's movies. But anyway, the movie's pretty funny as it is. Especially that line about Leonardo da Vinci. "},{"Title":"Big budget and more of a plot do NOT make for a better Bean","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I love the old Mr. Bean television show. It's just plain funny. Mostly because the show does NOT rely on expensive props or fantastic situations--just Rowan Atkinson showing off his amazing talent with very little assistance from others. In fact, his supporting actors are more props than anything else--someone to help further along the skits and that's all.Mr. Bean, the movie, though it far different. Instead of the barest of plots and sets as well as incidental actors, everything is forced into a REAL plot with more $$$ thrown into the effort since it is a movie. In effect, though, the whole chemistry has been upset and it is only a pale imitation of the original. No, some big exec thought it would be wonderful to spend a lot of money and force Mr. Bean to be rather conventional. Yes, some of the old gags are there, but they just seem forced--the energy is all missing.So, if you hate this movie or found it to be only exceptionally average, join the club. BUT, do not make the mistake of assuming the TV show is equally bland. Grab the DVD set and give it a try--only the biggest curmudgeons alive wouldn't find them great entertainment. "},{"Title":"The king of British comedy brings yet more fun this time with America's greatest painting!!!","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  SPOILERS ALERTRowan Atkinson returns in this feature length version of his 'Mr. Bean' show. In it Bean is a lazy slouch who is late for work every morning and  sleeps on the job. So the Royal National Gallery of London decide that the only way to get him out their lives is to send him to Los Angeles to oversee the unveiling of America's greatest work of art, 'Whistler's Mother'. When he touches down in LA, Mr. Bean destroys everything he crosses whether it be a simulator ride in a theme park, his host's career and marriage and the actual painting itself!!! This, like the TV series is laugh out loud from start to finish. Look out for the scene with Bean and the painting, hysterically funny. A must for all Bean fans. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie (which fortunately I rented on DVD so don't have to waste any more time rewinding it) is total garbage.  I cannot believe Rowan Atkinson would demean himself by agreeing to appear in such tripe.  He has done so many funny TV shows (Black Adder and The Thin Blue Line, in particular) but this movie is a long, drawn-out yawn. "},{"Title":"I left my head laughing at the cinema!","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Absolutely fantastic! Bean is one of those films where nothing is expected at all. For people who hadn't seen the TV series of Mr Bean, they have seen it now! All of the gags from the TV show are included in this picture, it is very nice that Mr Bean can have a friend and I think that a sequel would be a brilliant idea! You have to see this movie or laughter will become a thing of the past. "},{"Title":"Stupid Comedy","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Rowan Atkinson, Peter MacNicol, and Pamela Reed.Mr. Bean, the famous UK character, has his own movie.  It's about Bean practically destroying the portrait of Whistler's Mother and must find a way to get a replacement.  The movie has comedy for 4th graders, not adults.  I don't take points off but it didn't have as much humor as I can take. "},{"Title":"Very funny...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean is a very funny film. It will keep you laughing right from the start to the very end. If you don't find this film a good comedy, where is your taste in films?  "}{"Title":"VERY DIFFERENT BUT STILL FUNNY","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Let me first say that Bean was quite different to the TV series. For starters, Bean had a lot more dialogue in this film and he had to when you think about it. The producers could hardly have had a whole movie filled with facial expressions by Bean.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)Unlike the TV episodes which are usually a bunch of isolated incidents joined up to form one episode this actually has a story to it. Bean gets a job at the National Gallery and after a series of events a painting is damaged. The look on Bean's face when it is damaged is amazing.There are some great scenes where Bean gets on Peter MacNicol's nerves and almost gives him a nervous breakdown. MacNicol is very good at playing harassed characters in films and TV shows.I recommend this film to any comedy fans out there. If you loved the TV series, you'll love this. "},{"Title":"Just watch the TV show","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  In installments of 20 mins, Bean can be very funny. But 90 mins on the big screen? Forget it. Bean just does not generate enough laughs to sustain therw this boring effort. Atkinson is very good at physical comedy, but he can't even carry his trademark character for 90s mins. Don't bother, stick to the TV show.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant mockery of american ignorance and culture","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The film works on two levels - simple gags for teenage audience on one hand, and a hilarious satire of the US on the other. Having this in mind while watching the film, helps to appreciate all its real humour. It is quite understandable that americal critics did not praise it. For European audience it will be a real classic. "},{"Title":"The Bean series was great.  This movie is crap.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  A very mediocre movie, with a few laughs. The laughs aren't so great a second time around. All the major laughs have been taken directly from the series, and they were all somehow put into this movie. What a disappointment!! "},{"Title":"MR. Bean is a genius!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean is a great Movie. Rowan Atkinson is a genius in Comedy. He is not the type of comedian who makes you laugh at what he says, this guy does not even need to talk to be funny. His face expressions, body movements, and actions are funny enough to make you laugh for hours. Bean is the funniest movie i have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Close, but no cigar","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's always chancy bringing TV sketch comedy to the big screen. Something that works well in 10 minutes can often flounder when stretched to 90. The writers here had a good idea by making the antics of Mr. Bean a sidelight to another story. They should have picked a different story. This one, a case of mistaken identity, is not strong enough to adequately fill the time between Mr. Bean's bits. I would have preferred 7 or 8 really good, although unconnected, Bean sketches. Bean is a movie that I can recommend for those nights when the family gathers in front of the tube with a community bowl of popcorn for some mild entertainment. Only those of us who love Mr. Bean will know what we are missing. "},{"Title":"This was the worst movie in a long time","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was so bad that the people before us only watched 58 minutes and then rewound it.  We watched it all the way through only to see what they missed.  It was horrible.  I registered on IMDb solely to comment on how bad it was. "},{"Title":"Slightly Lacking","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean The Ultimate Disaster Movie.Bean is too much of a selective humour to appeal to most people. The movie had my family in stitches and I was wondering why. It definitely has its moments, but I thought that the movie generally lacked something in its humour.It was more bean bumbling than humour.I would recommend this movie to avid fans of Mr Bean.  Everyone else should perhaps give it a miss... "},{"Title":"A poor transfer on to the big screen","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Everyone who has seen the T.V. series of Mr Bean knows how funny it can be. Unfortunately for Mel Smith, Richard Curtis and Rowan Atkinson,the big screen outing for the most weirdest Englishman on the planet is a great disappointment. It seems that the idea of a crazy, zany man wrecking havok all over California is not many people's cup of tea. Although there is a good cast, many of the jokes used in the T.V. series are used in the film. A poor introduction for the television series, but 'Bean' mania has taken off in America. "},{"Title":"Remember to breathe while laughing!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  To put it mildly, I fall asleep rather quickly at the sight of British comedies.  However, thanks to this film, I will actively seek out the Mr. Bean videos.  Bean, The Movie, is close to being one continuous laugh-a-thon that should be able to brighten even a Scrooge's day.  Beware, you may laugh so much that you may forget to breathe.  Great for viewing with family or friends. "}{"Title":"extended TV episode with + sentiment","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  An extended episode of the UK TV series created by Richard Curtis and Rowan Atkinson, with added sentimentality for American audiences.Some excellent episodes, but ultimately -like Jim Carrey or Adam Sandler- your appreciation of this film depends on whether you love the rubber-faced antics of Rowan Atkinson's creation or hate them. There's no middle ground here.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing!","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for Bean I was in much anticipation but it was wasted energy. Everything in the movie was taken from the TV show which is a lot more funny. The dialogue in the movie through me off. I'm so used to seeing the TV show which is in almost complete silence. I felt they Americanized Mr. Bean and did a poor job. I think Hollywood must think the American public is stupid. They insinuate we need a plot other than Rowan Atkinson's hilarious antics and adventures. The plot of the American family was pathetic and extremely disappointing. Like others said before...forget the movie, watch the TV shows. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I love the TV-Show Mr. Bean and I Have many on tape which I watch regularly and I can´t stop laughing at it. But this film is a stinker. There are pratically not a funny scene in it, a lot of the jokes that Rowan does have been done before in the sitcom and in this case it doesn´t work. This film was bad and not funny and I felt like they should have just made a 90 minute long show instead of a big budget hollywood flick. Sad thing but has not overshadowed the greatness of the series which is one of the greatest sitcoms ever created.  "},{"Title":"Not inspired","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mr Bean the movie is cruely lacking of inspiration. It is simply a patchwork of the TV series, which is definitely very disappointing. The film itself is not bad, however, and people who haven't seen all the TV episodes can really enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"A let down, but not a complete wash","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  When you try to design a feature length movie around a character designed for sketches, it's usually near impossible to pull off very well.Rowan Atkinson, a brilliant English comic, didn't quite pull off the impossible. That's not to say the movie is not good. It's fairly average overall. People who expect the laugh-a-minute pace of the TV series and his stand up will hate it.Still, inside this long, drawn-out, boring story, lies many gems of comic brilliance. I don't want to give away what happens near the ending, since to say so will lay out some major spoilers. Suffice it to say if you rent this movie just to get to this scene, it's well worth it.I'll give you a hint. If you decide to watch it and get bored, watch the scenes in the art gallery to get an idea of the plot, and get to about 20 minutes from the end and watch from there. The ending is pretty close to a 10. "},{"Title":"One of those comedy's","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a comedy like there are many others. It has nothing much of a story, OK characters, actors directing and other stuff, but it also has a bunch of good or very good laughs. That's it not more not less. It is just average. There are just a few scenes that aren't. Some of them are plain stupid but there are only two, maybe three good ones. My favourite one (this is very good) is when Bean is on an aeroplane and tries to cheer up a young kid that doesn't feel well.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Cute, but doesn't have the magic...","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" If you've watched the Mr Bean show, you know Rowan Atkinson has talent. He's got the comedic styling and character details to make him a lovable goofball. The movie version is cute, but it doesn't have the impact of the show. Atkinson puts his heart into it, and it definitely shows. It just sometimes seemed too silly, even for Mr Bean. This movie is definitely more directed at the children to enjoy the show, and it will entertain them. Adults who enjoy the show will probably find a chuckle or two. Its mostly juvenile humor, and they're the ones who'd really appreciate it. From a technical standpoint, it's perfectly fine in cinematography, acting, and composition. I'd recommend this movie for a family with preteen kids. It's just the thing for a lazy Saturday night. "},{"Title":"Mr Bean is incompetent and self-serving, but a load of fun to watch.","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie with Emily and Natalie, who became a fan watching some of the Mr Bean TV episodes. To get rid of him, Mr. Bean is sent on a mission to California to escort the world famous painting of Whistler's Mother to its new home in the Grierson Gallery, figuring he couldn't screw that up. What the gallery owner, one of the richest men in America, and his curator David Langley believe, is that Mr. Bean is Dr. Bean, a renowned art expert. In fact he is just a sleepy-headed, wildly eccentric museum guard. He is also the clumsiest, craziest, wackiest, wildest, most bizarre character they have ever come across, and certainly not someone you would entrust one of the world's most valuable paintings to. It is the kind of movie where you sit back and see what new mischief Mr Bean can get himself into. "},{"Title":"Mr. Bean on big screen","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mr. Bean is a British comedy series and in 1997 they made a movie called Bean.In the movie Bean is working in a British museum.He is sleeping mostly at work so they want to fire mr. Bean.But instead they send him to Los Angeles to unveil and present a painting called Whistler's Mother.There they think mr. Bean is a genius but are they far from the truth.Bean doesn't know anything about art.In LA Bean stays at David Langley's (Peter MacNimol) house.David's family doesn't like at all a weird man sleeping in their house.Where ever Bean goes is a disaster.So the painting really isn't in safe when mr. Bean is around.Bean contains some very funny moments.It's just hilarious. "},{"Title":"Nothing to get carried away","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Yes, this movie was funny, sometimes. Some jokes and gags were good but other were simply stupid. Rowan Atkinson is very good in his character. If you're a fan of the TV-show, you should like this movie. The only problem, it's that while the TV-show is about 30 minutes or so, this one keeps on going for 90 minutes. After a while, you tend to get a little tired of the same old Bean's misadventures.Out of 100, I gave it a generous 70. "}{"Title":"a terrible, terrible movie","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm a big Atkinson fan, and have enthusiastically watched all the episodes of Mr. Bean and Black Adder, but this movie is simply terrifying.First of all, most of the jokes performed by Atkinson are old and dry. They do not successfully fit in the movie's premise of a happy American family caught in the middle of an euro-American cultural gap. Atkinson's character is erroneously portrayed as some kind of alien drawn into the mecca of modern civilization (is he stupid enough to not even know how to behave properly in a car?), what proves to be kind of derogatory to his comic persona.Secondly, it's kind of derogatory to Americans as well. The commercial frenzy built around the exposition points out, even if strictly fictionally, the ugly part of the behavior towards art in contemporary America. Reynolds's character, a distinguished and respected general who can barely tell a Picasso from a car accident, is another prove of that. It just gets painful when the paint is presented in a futuristic like platform with steel vault door and tons of dry ice smoke.I'm no experienced movie critic myself, and I can't say how well 'Bean' is directed, or if the actors behave in it as actors should, but I do feel that kid flicks (i found no better way to classify this movie) shouldn't beckon so strongly such a temporaryistic ideology. "},{"Title":"Some funny moments, but generally fails to capture the magic, charm or humour of the series","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" STAR RATING ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning At a renowned art gallery in Los Angeles, a major event in the shape of the unveiling of one of the most famous American portraits of all time, Whistler's Mother, is about to happen. But the yanks need an art expert from Britain to come over and give an analysis of the painting, so they call on their friends in The Royal National Gallery of Art in London to send over one of their finest experts on the subject. Unfortunately for them, the heads of the gallery are more interested in using this as an opportunity to rid themselves of their most inept and detested employee Mr Bean (Rowan Atkinson) passing him off as an expert and sending him across the pond to the care of Dr Langley (Peter MacNicol.) Intently interested in Bean and what he's got to say, the poor man and his family have no idea what they have just let themselves in for as disaster and calamity ensue before the big day of the unveiling.Mr Bean the series certainly enjoyed a huge following over here but I'm surprised it sustained a big enough following to warrant such a big budget production as this. I'm not sure how well this did in the states or on which side of the pond most of the filming took place on but whatever way you look at it, this just takes the concept of the series and mangles it up rather, leaving us with a film that nowhere near manages to capture the magic and charm that the series did. It's funny in places, but generally this has added more of an American edge to the Bean formula which misunderstands the humour of Bean. In the series, it was never that Bean was an outright idiot- he was just a man who perceived the world a little differently to everyone else and tended to do things his own way, sometimes with catastrophic consequences. Here he is presented as a typical sort of slow-minded dolt of the sort you see trotted out in many American comedy films, robbing him of his distinctively innocent edge that carried him through the series.Other things aren't right with the film too, including the naff plot and script which are flawed and fail to hold together. The film will make you laugh in places but it mostly mangles the humour of what makes Bean Bean and is funny because of this, not what made Bean so great in the first place. ** "},{"Title":"Rowan Atkinson is at his Best!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Outstanding","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" First of all I was shocked to see how badly the movie was rated.Man it was rated 5.8 how could it be.This is one of the finest masterpiece of comedy from Mr. Rowan Atkinson.Hats off to you! My review 8/10 go for this one!!!!! His comedy does not look artificial he is so natural & comfortable while portraying his character.The story line was okay but only & only Mr.Atkinson gave it a superb zeal by his performance. Other actors did their job ,okay.The best thing about the movie is that you will enjoy it as a comic cracker also you will be glued to the seat anxiously thinking what is going to be the next disaster by Mr. Bean If u didn't get my point it's my fault because I haven't made the synopsis of this movie clear . For that you will have to watch it. I can say that You will enjoy it thoroughly!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Top notch movie, one of a kind","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Absolutely hilarious, especially the scene in the airport where he pretends to have a gun! Great cast, great acting and very good music score. The story is good and the music sets it off very well. Some parts are very moving! Top notch comedy that is one of a kind! If you go to see the 2007 film , Mr beans holiday, and didn't enjoy it do not blacklist this movie. Unfortunately the second movie was not as entertaining and slightly more childish than this one so I was a bit disappointed. More funny scenes than you can shake a stick at! 1997 Bean is a film you can watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better?","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Dr. Bean comes to America. They think he's an art scholar and historian but he's only a watcher at the British Royal Art Gallery. They would like to fire him but somebody higher won't let them so they send him to America with a valuable painting of Whistler's Mother costing somebody 50 million dollars. Rowan Atkinson is one of Britain's best loved comedians. He becomes Bean, this man-child, that nobody understands maybe except for Peter McNichol's character. I love them together. They had a great chemistry with their comedic talents. He plays the art curator whose wife played by Pamela Reed thinks Bean is a certified weird and strange and won't let him stay with the family. He thinks it would be a good idea to welcome Bean into the family home. I think it would have worked to see how Bean interacts with his teenage daughter and son. There could have been great more comment moments with Bean interacting with the family. We don't know much about Bean. "},{"Title":"A hilarious film!","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bean has, in my opinion, received a worthy big-screen debut - this film is an absolute riot and will have you in stitches. Though the distinct Bean style of humour is very predictable, it never gets old or loses its touch, and this time, Bean's escapades actually form some kind of a plot. How Bean deals with situations clearly meant for more academically-gifted people is absolutely hilarious, and one that earns him a lot of respect from his peers. The movie stays hilarious throughout - it never reaches a peak or particularly drops. Though people thought this film was mediocre, I say that they have no sense of humour - Mr. Bean is one of the funniest comedy characters ever. The film is predictable and a bit repetitive - but I say, so what? This is a comedy film full of outrageous gags and hilarious scenarios - and it couldn't possibly have been better in those aspects. Bean brings a trail of destruction wherever he goes - America has at last felt his zany wrath! 9/10 "},{"Title":"the funniest movie ever from the funniest guy who ever lived...","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I could dwell at this keyboard and gush all night long, but a bunch of words on a monitor aren't going to do this movie justice, nor will they make you get up out of your chair and go see it. I'll venture forth to say that when it hit our town, I sat in the theater laughing so hard that my kids got up and moved. Rowan Atkinson is definitely my kind of humor, and 'Bean' has it in stacks, with subtle little jokes neatly filling in between the hoots, guffaws and minute-long belly laughs.If there's a God in Heaven (and I believe there is), then the genius of comedy that gave us 'Bean' will not go unrewarded in the life hereafter. Even the Lord has a sense of humor, and He's never demonstrated that any better than by creating Rowan Atkinson. Makes me wonder if The Man is up there on His throne, looking down, scratching His head and saying, how am I gonna top that? Let me suggest, Almighy One, that you could simply make Mr. Atkinson immortal, then let him stay here to entertain generations of Earthlings for eternity... "},{"Title":"OK, but pretty much a repeating of the tv series.","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film is actually quite good, but it is too much a repeating of many, many jokes from the tv show Mr Bean. Rowan Atkinson is a genius, and he and the very talented writers can do some original stuff. I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"The film worked for me","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've always admired Rowan Atkinson both on TV and as a live performer (his live Indian restaurant waiter sketch still has me laughing years after I saw it).  I could never, however, stand to watch Mr Bean, in fact I always thought it was a complete waste of Atkinson's talent.  I put the Bean movie on the other day as there was nothing else on and I wanted something as background while I was ironing.  I was very pleasantly surprised - the Bean character came over as far less cringingly embarrassing than in the TV series and I was amazed to find that I was enjoying the movie very much. The scene where Bean is being driven around LA even had me crying with laughter.  Better than the TV series by far, in my opinion.  Hopefully Bean II will never be made, though! "},{"Title":"I laughed until I cried","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've seen both the movie and the tv show and I thought the movie was just as funny.  I can't even pick a funniest scene, because I laughed equally on all of them.  I laughed throughout the whole movie.  The show is what first turned me to Mr. Bean. He is so insanely funny!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Stay in Great Britain, Mr. Bean, and do your TV shows.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I loved Mr. Beans great TV shows, the best being Mr. Bean is in Room 428, and Merry Christmas, Mr. Bean, but when Mr. Bean goes to America it's as if we told him to be a bad actor. I chuckled a few times, but other than that I was not impressed. I would give this a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Likeable Film That Still Misses the Mark","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bean is a nice little film which stars Rowan Atkinson in the title role.  He is sent to the U.S. to attend the unveiling of Whistler's Mother, a piece of artwork which has been bought by a high-class military officer (Burt Reynolds in a short cameo).  While there he stays with Peter McNicol and learns the importance of family.  All in all, Bean is a noble effort that still falls short of expectations.  It never does reach the hilarious comedy of the popular series.  Instead the film-makers went for the message of family being important to all individuals.  When the comedy and message are mixed together, we have a disjointed film that is never as funny or as serious as it was originally intended to be.  Overall, a likeable film that may have been too smart for its own good.  2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Good, but could use a little more work","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" My mom and I watch Mr.Bean on T.V. but when I saw the movie, I thought that anything can be possible. Rowan Atkinson character is one thing but the actor himself is very serious about what he does. Mr.Bean does make Inspector Clouseau look like an amateur of bungling. This movie was like a yo-yo. Good in one part, slow on the other. I liked the part where he wiggles his ears and tells that its Magic. Even though it was a fun movie, the fun factor was a little weak. It should have stayed constant throughout the entire movie. there it would have been better. Other than that, if your a big fan of Bean, enjoy all the classic episodes from the best British humor you can expect.2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Oh dear oh dear","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Laughs, not many. Cringes aplenty.This is the low point of Rowan Atkinson's career. After an initial handful of strong - if very mainstream - Mr Beans for television, the shows increased in frequency, and decreased in quality to the point of patheticness.It all started to go wrong when they started giving him lines to say.So what then to do after no-one cared about the TV show any more? Take it to the big screen and try and sell it to America. Big mistake.This film is essentially a rehashing of some of the TV moments, within the context of a simple and somewhat directionless plot. And there are some attempts at 'humour' which simply make me cringe, not to mention a tacked-on ending, which looks and feels completely different from the main plot.This is not a good film, and it's worse than the weakest of the TV shows. Now we are apparently getting a new animated series of Mr. Bean. Could it be that Atkinson has run out of original ideas? "},{"Title":"An amusing and very successful British Comedy","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I love Mr. Bean, his amusing antics and the stupid things he gets up to.I have just seen this movie for the 2nd time and I have to say that it is rather good overall.Though this film is English made it has a classic American feel to the whole thing, maybe this is the reason it was 'so' popular and successful during 1997.I just 'hope' that the development teams make a sequel and really soon!8/10 "},{"Title":"What the hell happened!?","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Have you seen the show!?  It's great stuff!  But what the hell happened with this movie?!?  I mean, where did this entire museum garbage come from? And why are there two people from Ghostbusters 2 in this??  What the bloody hell happened?!-Al "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Disaster.","Date":"28 July 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" If you're not familiar with Bean the movie or TV series, do yourself a big favour and steer well clear of this stinker of a movie and track down some videos of the TV series.The TV shows are hilarious. The movie is pathetic.0/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing like the series","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Mr. Bean is back and trying to appeal to an American audience in his film Bean. The film is nothing like the series, although it does use a few skits from the series. Overall, it's just not that funny. The film tries to have an underlying serious story to it while poking fun at Rowan Atkinson's character. What made the television series so great was that they were short clips (mainly without much dialog), mainly consisting of the character doing a normal everyday task and then making it into something abnormal. I don't recommend this film, but I do recommend the series if you're looking for a laugh. (Bean series 7/10 and this film 2/10.) "},{"Title":"Second-rate retread of Being There","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Why do they do it?  The original Mr Bean sketches on British TV were charming, slight and yes, very funny.  He was a triumph of visual humour - real old-fashioned slapstick done with imagination, a genuine clown, silent and sometimes even touching.  Then  they go and raise this huge unwieldy edifice of a movie on top of this sweet, fragile creation - and hardly surprisingly, it's flattened.  There's nothing funny about this movie; the bits that work are second-hand borrowings from Being There and frankly, there aren't many of those.  One set-piece in an operating theatre is tasteless in the extreme and  don't let your pre-schoolers see Rowan Atkinson drinking hot water from the kettle if you want to stay out of the hospital yourself... "},{"Title":"Stick To The Television Show","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" My late aunt and I both loved the Mr. Bean TV show, though my mother hated it, so my aunt and I eagerly went to the movie theater to see it. This was a box office hit? All it did was recycle some jokes from the TV show, add a stupid plot and a stupid supporting cast, and leave out the charm and cleverness.The idea of the TV show was that Mr. Bean used ingenious ways to deal with various situations, with varying degrees of success. Here he just acts like an idiot, and serves as the villain rather than the hero of the story. The one amusing bit in the movie (for which I gave an extra star) was where he distracted the security guard, then used laxatives to keep him away from his post for a sufficient time. But even then, it's the guard and not Mr. Bean who gets the laughs.We were both quite disappointed, and nobody else in the theater except for a little boy sitting next to me seemed to have any fun. "}{"Title":"Ahhhh >>> Bean","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The Mr Bean Movie is a funny British comedy that is a follow from the successful television series on Mr Bean.Mr Bean is one of the comedies when you don't know whether to laugh or cry, because the scenes are ovating and leave an impression on you. The storyline is ordinary to me. Just Going to New York to Unviel Whistlers Mother's Painting in a fine art gallery, and he has to stay with a family that want him out of there.There is an amazing cast with names like Rowan Atkinson, Pamela Reed and Burt Reynolds, who put it all into their characters and really shine.My Favourite Scene will have to when he is using chewing gum to stick the poster and also eggs. "},{"Title":"Bean there, Done that","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Rowan Atkinson arrives in America, to only be sent back to England. Although Rowan Atkinson is hilarious and is considered by many as a modern day Jerry Lewis, the American audience could only take so much of Mr. Bean. Peter MacNicol, from Ally McBeal fame co stars. This is a nice comedy, but with the expectations that they wanted, it was not the biggest and most successful comedy to hit that year. Andrew Lawrence began his annoying career with this first role. Being born into the royalty of the Lawrence dynasty, Andrew quickly became the poster child of one of the up coming annoying child star of his generation. Much like Lawrence, the movie drags and drags and soon becomes a long, un-eventful story. For some reason, the same song is used over and over again until the audience is overwhelmed to run for the exits. "},{"Title":"Sight gags are fine for half an hour - but for the movies, he is an insustainable character.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mr Bean (Rowan Atkinson) goes to LA, helps ruin an art gallery, destroys a famous painting and wrecks havoc on his host family.In a two hour movie, Bean is just not a complex enough character. As The Truth about Cats and Dogs proved, moviegoers do not appreciate characters that cause trouble for two hours. Most people, me included, can't stand movies where everything goes wrong. We just can't help thinking of this stuff actually happening. And that's what happens in a movie - we are taken into this world, and we just need more than this to sustain us.And i'm a fan of Bean in his half-hour timeslot.1/5. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think Bean The Movie is a fantastic movie. This movie was made in 1997. Rowan Atkinson i think is a fantastic actor. He made a series of mr bean and has made allsorts of comedy and drama programmes such as BlackAdder. i give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mr. Bean and the Holy Grail?","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie made me gassy so I threw it out the window. But then Chukey came and was all up in my ass so I pimp slapped him and he flew to mars. Anyways this movie has many redeeming qualities that give it that famous natural orange flavor. Thwe monkey told me that sooner or later this would all catch up with me so I told the monkey to stop following me and then that night the monkey was all like  You must find the Holy Grail so I was all like Where do I find the holly grail.A grail is a kind of cup that was made popular after the The Legend of The Holy Grail. The legend goes that it was the cup Jesus drank out of at the last supper and it was hidden so King Arthur went looking for it. While he was looking, he met the Nights who say Nee. these wise men gave him a herring . So in conclusion I believe that ham is the best solution to all of are problems. Grood Night! "},{"Title":"Bean Brained Film","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Watching this film was an exercise in self-discipline. After the first 10 minutes, I wanted to shut it off. After the next 10, I wanted a refund and an apology. By the end of 30 minutes, I wanted the head of the studio on a silver platter. I shut it off at 35 minutes. I felt somewhat guilty taking it back to the Video rental knowing some other poor innocent might be subjected to it.First let me say, I like Rowan Atkinson. He is a very funny man. His Black Adder series is brilliant and The Thin Blue Line is very good.Mel Smith, the Director (probably best known in the U.S. for his role as the Albino in Princess Bride) is also a very funny man. So is Peter MacNicol.So how in the name of all that is good and funny could they have possibly made such a clunker as Bean? Atkinson's BBC show, Mr. Bean on which the film was based, was humorous, but it was sketch comedy which rarely translates into a good film. Look at all the filmic bombs made from Saturday Night Live sketches.The fact it was from a sketch show was blatantly obvious in the erratic pacing and lack proper set-up for the jokes. Moreover, much of the humor depended solely on Atkinson doing things that would embarrass a typical adult. One example early on is Bean unabashedly removing his drying underwear from his host's oven while his hosts are discussing whether he should stay or go. While this might amuse some 12-year-old boys, for an adult viewer, it was excruciating to watch. As far as I could determine, the scene had no reason for existence except to draw an 'eewwww' out of the audience.The only reason it didn't rate a '1' is that it was clear the actors were doing their best to make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.Bean can best be summed up in one word... Bleah! "},{"Title":"Mr Bean for Idiots....","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Not a patch on the tv series, in which Mr Bean had a penchant for petty nastiness and childishly knowing humour.  Without these aspects, the character is simply an idiot, stumbling through the plot like a clueless dolt who is in a situation that is way over his head.And that seems, to me, to be another problem with the film....  It has a plot (albeit not much of one).  The original never needed a plot, being a collection of skits that just happened to involve the same character.  It might have been nice for the film to be a big-budget version of this (and I seem to remember there being a filmed version of the Bean meets The Queen sketch) but, well, we weren't given it.  Pity, really.  *shrug*  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite TV characters crashed and burned.","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I just don't see how anyone was able to take a character as funny as Mr. Bean, nor an actor as funny as Rowan Atkinson, and make such a terrible, terrible movie.  Mistake number one  serious, tear-jerker subplots.  Not only were they hokey, they were completely counter to the free, unfettered, occasionally mean humor that Mr. Bean usually represents.  Mistake number two Peter MacNicol.  This guy has always been one of the worst actors I've ever seen.  Name a movie where he was funny...  I bet you can't.  A good Mr. Bean movie would have been a Jacques Tati-like flick, with little dialogue and faith in the character's visual humor.  This movie apparently made huge money in Asia, where (I'm guessing) the TV series never played.  I'm sad to think how many people in the world think they know Mr. Bean, but all they know is this pale imitation of one of the funniest characters ever to appear on television.   "},{"Title":"is that a comedian??","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  BEAN is definitely the worst comedy i've seen lately. Unlike the TV series, that were way funnier, the movie is cr*p from the beginning til the end. Rowan Atkinson is NOT funny at all, actually the only good laughs i've had were due to MacNicol's character (MacNicol is obviously a better comedian than Atkinson). It's embarassing even to think about the so called gags used in this movie. Bean, an employee of a museum in London, is sent to USA, to a museum that bought the most expensive painting in the history of the States. Even the premise is stupid and inconcludent. The USA museum asks the London one to send them an expert for the presentation of Whistler's mother, the 50 million dollars painting. So the brits send Bean, to get rid of him.Of course Bean gets to the USA after a so-called funny trip (i've seen so many times the gag with the bag with throw-up that it didn't even make me smile), and of course nobody realizes he's not an expert even if he acts like a mentally retarded guy. Actually he doesn't act like one, he IS one. Bean keeps entering in all kinds of messes, he also destroyes the painting (I think there is more security guarding the toilets than the 50 million dollar painting), but til the end like a miracle everything will work out fine. I have never liked this kind of actors, that think they're funny if they make faces all movie-long, like Bean does, like Jim Carrey does. These are not comedians. Tim Robbins is a comedian, Adam Sandler is a comedian, but Atkinson isn't.Vote 3 out of 10 (i didn't give it a 1 because of MacNicol, totally adorable "},{"Title":"Should have known better","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I really should have known better than to watch this film. I did not really care that much for the Mr. Bean TV show a few years back, so why, oh, why, did I decide to sit through this dreck? I seem to have taped this film from cable TV a few years ago, so that indicates an interest at that time. Rowan Atkinson's physical comedy is well-developed, just not that funny. His Bean character is a lazy, mean-spirited moron who rarely speaks. Peter MacNicol, did the best he could with the material at hand, and cannot be blamed for the outcome. Likewise the lovely Pamela Reed. The big names in the credits, Sir John Mills, and Burt Reynolds, had what amounted to cameos, not real parts. This is all Atkinson, all the time, and if you like that, then this is the film for you. If not, run away screaming. "}{"Title":"In one word Awful.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I must say that I loved the Mr. Bean episodes on TV, but the movie just does not match up at all. Since I was a fan of Mr. Bean on TV, I was eager to go see the motion picture. However, I found out that it was so bad that I actually had to walk out in the middle of the movie. Take my advice, stick to the TV episodes and skip by all means the Movie. "},{"Title":"Bean The Ultimate Disaster Movie...... Literally","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" God I Hate Bean. Two minutes of the television show just sends me in apoplexy. He's utterly annoying, the humour is lowest common denominator. So those nice people at Working Title decided that we needed a movie, 90 wholes minutes with the everybody's favourite buffoon. Great, and worse, it was a hit. The lowest common denominator worked and the movie stormed the box office all over the world the east Europeans were especially keen you'd have thought they had suffered enough what with the communism and now Eurovision.I have nothing but respect for someone who can make people laugh. But Rowan Atkinson.... please. His rubbery face and the obvious double takes are irritating in the extreme. He also manages to make this horrible noise throughout his portrayal of Bean, something akin to a grunt really. The comedy, for what it is, is cheap and predictable. There's only so many times you can laugh at an idiot fall over or walk into something, come on, this character is obviously mentally unstable. There, I hope that's wiped the smirks off your faces.The movie itself has no plot except sending the idiotic man to America. There is also no character for us to get to know. The audience don't laugh with Bean; well i don't, they cruelly laugh at him.We are also stuck with a sequel Bean on Holiday or what ever it's called.So, if you have any depth of compassion in your soul, avoid Bean like the black plague, honestly, it's for the best. "},{"Title":"Bean doesn't amount to a hill of beans on big screen.","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  What a disservice to a great character!  The nutty TV charm of Mr. Bean is  left behind in Merry Olde England in this transfer to the big screen.  The  script would have to be improved to qualify as slight; the jokes, such as  they are, are abominably crude, painful and ugly; the only scenes that  remotely feel like real Mr. Bean take place at an amusement park.  The rest  is junk.  Spare yourself -- especially if you haven't seen the TV show.   See the TV show instead! "},{"Title":"Did anyone actually read this script before shooting the movie?","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I won't spend a lot of time writing up this review since the writers of this film didn't spend much time thinking of a plot. I think that the writers of this movie better get new jobs, and fast! I mean how hard can it be to make a funny movie based on a popular TV show? Obviously, very! There was not one scene throughout the entire movie that made me laugh. The writers of this film have the worst sense of humor, if not any. The actor himself who portrays Mr.Bean tries so hard to make you laugh that you look beyond the character and start laughing at how pathetic he looks. Since he can barely speak a word of English he has to rely directly on facial expressions and jokes. Rather than having an at least remotely funny scene with him locked in an apartment room (the TV series), he gets a turkey stuck on his head (one word, pathetic). This may sound funny, but it is ridiculously stupid.This movie has nothing to offer other than an utterly sad portrayal of a hilarious TV series. Here are some words of advice if you are looking for a hilarious film, this is not it (see Theres Something About Mary). If you are looking for a movie with a brilliantly funny star, this is not it (see Patch Adams), and if you are looking for a combination of the two, this is clearly not it! This film can hardly be called a comedy. Almost half way through the film I wanted to shoot myself let alone the director. If there is anyone in this world who wants to see this film, you are just as sad as the movie itself.  "},{"Title":"Bean","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" He first appeared on TV in 1990, and in 1997 he finally got be the star of his own Ultimate Disaster Movie, from comedian director Mel Smith. Rubber-faced genius comedian Rowan Atkinson as Mr. Bean works in The Royal National Gallery as a lazy caretaker, and when his bosses want to fire him, the Chairman (Sir John Mills) defends him, so they instead send him on a trip to America to be the professional scholar for the Grierson Gallery of California to see and talk about the new purchase, Whistler's Mother. Unaware of his accident-prone personality, David Langley (Ally McBeal's Peter MacNicol) allows him to stay at his house, and his wife Alison (Pamela Reed) and kids move out for not getting rid of him. Along the way of waiting for the painting, Bean and David live up the joys of America, and Bean obviously causes all the havoc. Then when the painting does arrive, Bean destroys it, and David pretty much breaks down. Bean saves the day three times though, when he restores the painting, gives a good speech about it, and wakes David's daughter's after a motorcycle accident. Also starring Harris Yulin as George Grierson, Burt Reynolds as General Newton, Larry Drake as Elmer, Chris Ellis as Detective Butler, EastEnders' June Brown as Delilah. This is a fantastic comedy film for anyone who likes slapstick, a lovable bumbling simple minded hero, and if you have the DVD, the deleted scenes are good as well, including Bean driving his green Mini through Harrods. Another Bean movie followed in 2007, Mr. Bean's Holiday, after which Atkinson announced it was the last time he would play the character. Rowan Atkinson was number 18 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 24 on The Comedians' Comedian, and he was number 8 on Britain's Favourite Comedian, and the film was number 53 on The 100 Greatest Family Films (although the list may be confused with The Great Escape). Very good! "},{"Title":"What a difference from the series!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ok, let's face it.This movie sucks. The expectations were high since the TV Series was excellent - so funny.What I expected from this movie was to see the tv series turned to a movie with lots of different stories, but instead, they decided to make it one story, a story where Bean is sent to the United States as an Art Expert.It was better if they invested on more episodes of the TV Series, that's all.Vote  15/100. "},{"Title":"This movie isn't even worth seeing ~!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was so terrible that it wasn't even worth seeing! The director really over did it. It wasn't funny at all. There were wholes all through the script. On all of the scenes that were meant to be hilarious were some of the most dull scenes I've ever seen in my life! "},{"Title":"Complete crap","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  this movie sucked. I wish I had more to say but there was nothing funny about it at all. From what I had heard the show was funny but this was the worst movie I have ever seen. And I actually tell people that when talking about movies.  "},{"Title":"A dumb movie with dumb actors","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie isn't even worth seeing ~! The actor is WAY over exaggerated ~! The funniest part is at the end when he does his finger thing. But that's not even funny. So if you haven't seen this movie yet........ don't bother. "}]