[{"Title":"A Surprisingly Good Film","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"54 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Let me say immediately that I would recommend this film to almost anyone but the most literal-minded.  This film will be different things to different people.  It can be a macho thriller, a subtle romance, an ironic look at ourselves, or a combination of all these things.  The great thing about this movie is not so much the plot, but the individual situations and scenes.  What is meant to be portrayed as paranoid behaviour by Mel Gibson's character, Jerry Fletcher, becomes quite funny when the viewer recognizes his or her own self doing similar things, but in a context that is supposedly normal.  Jerry's having a padlock on his refrigerator and a combination lock on his coffee will bring a smile to the lips of anyone who has to deal with numerous computer logons and passwords to gain access to even the most mundane things in our computer-dominated workplaces.   Likewise, the writers and director are spot on when they show poor paranoid Jerry going to separate mailboxes to post his various letters, while many of us here in the on-line world will routinely use pseudonyms, proxies, remailers, etc for the very same reason that Jerry takes his seemingly abnormal precautions, i.e., to avoid potentially prying eyes.   So, who's paranoid?  I thought this was very insightful.  As for overt humour, perhaps my guard was down, but I laughed until tears came to my eyes when Jerry tossed off joke about a man who had only three minutes to live.  Mel Gibson's delivery of the punch line was perfect.  As for pathos and those human moments, scenes in which Jerry would gladly die for just a brushing kiss from his worshipped Julia Roberts might bring  back memories of anyone's naive, tender years and momentarily make your heart ache.  And a scene in which Jerry is unable to explain why he compulsively buys copies of  the same book over and over again is very poignant, indeed.  Mel Gibson put a lot of energy into what was obviously a demanding role and, as usual, Julia Roberts lights up the screen in every scene she's in.  The film might be a fantasy, but it's the sort of fantasy many of us can appreciate. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"63 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie could be classified into different genres - suspense, romance & thriller.  Not many films can say that, or if they can, many do not succeed. Conspiracy Theory, however, did.The first time I saw this, I was on the edge of my seat.  It was very suspensful.  I won't go into details if you haven't seen it, but it's really one of the best suspense films I've seen.This wasn't a completely romantic film, no.  In fact, I wish it would've touched on the romance more than it did.  Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts had great chemistry.  Although nothing really happened between them, the audience could clearly see Jerry's (Mel Gibson)love for Alice (Julia Roberts.)Now, the plot.  Jerry Fletcher has many wild conspiracy theories - including one that NASA is trying to kill the President with earthquakes.  He's a cabbie & tells lots of people his ideas.  But the one person he seems to tell the most to and thinks can help him is Alice Sutton, an attorney.  He saved her months before the movie takes place when she was mugged.  He seems to get on her nerves, but she puts up with him.  He goes to her office all the time.  He's obviously in love with her, but she doesn't feel the same way.  Well, somehow they (CIA, FBI, you know they) find out about Jerry's crazy conspiracies & they go after him.  He and Alice are in danger.The acting in this movie was terrific.  This may be Mel's best.  His portrayal of a crazy cabbie was so good and believable.  It's not really like any other role he has played.  He did it so well & the audience sympathized with him completely.  Julia was good too.  Her role wasn't really difficult to play, but she made it believably nevertheless. Patrick Stewart also stars in this.  He made a great bad guy.Overall, this movie was great.  It was very suspensful & the acting was outstanding.  "},{"Title":"Slider!!","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"42 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is a steady paced well made, twister of a drama, with sharply laced comedy around the perimeter. I was told by a woman that I worked with when this came out before I saw it, she said, You're like Jerry Fletcher. That guy Mel Gibson plays in that new movie, Conspiracy Theory. The thing that I didn't tell her was that...I had driven a taxi just the year before I met her. Oh, this is just getting too close here now. Okay shall we...I had absolutely no idea what she was talking about, but I went and saw the movie. I don't think totally so, but maybe some small similarities could be possible...I guess. So I was talking to someone when I drove professionally and realized there was no one in the back...so what!The casting was beautiful, all the players were superb! The plot was right on, the twists, that would occur, here and there kept you guessing and hopeful. The action was brisk and well set, propelling and then slowing to a place of horror for a little while, then back 'on' again moving fast! No matter what the opinion of the average movie-watcher-Joe, Gibson always has a different feel. It doesn't seem like he is a movie star, more rather a real solid guy, it seems that he is who he is portraying. There is a certain style that he has that seems like he could be related, or someone that you would like to hang-out with and enjoy a beer. Julia Roberts shines in this. She cares, she is real and it comes through from the time they meet on to the departure and before the next meeting. Hey, there's a thought, Mel and Julia could take another 'pairing' of roles together.This was a truly wild ride with a very different ending. Worth Gibson fan's or Roberts fan's time. This is a must see if you enjoy a solid story with racy action and a wonderful plot that moves along and then slightly twists toward the end. Recommended excellent (*****) "},{"Title":"Monk Or Oliver Stone?","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"51 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Now that the TV series Monk has become so popular, maybe a few more people will check this film out. Mel Gibson's character isn't exactly like Monk - more like a super hyperactive and politically paranoid Monk. He fits right in with Oliver Stone and the rest of the conspiracy freaks. Stone, in fact, would like this film since it gives credence to these paranoid fantasies and gives several cheap shots to conservatives along the way.Political propaganda-aside, this is a fun movie to watch and the most fun might be Gibson's house, which is too incredible to describe here. Mel is fascinating to watch and really makes this movie what it is with his outrageous character Jerry Fletcher. Julia Roberts gives a solid performance while looking about as good as she ever looked. Patrick Stewart is very effective as the bad guy. He reminded me of Laurence Olivier's Nazi villain in Marathon Man.An involving story that holds your attention for the full 2-plus hours and looks nice on DVD. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson wonderful, chemistry with Julia Roberts tops","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The thing that stands out for me in this movie is the wonderful (and underrated) performance given by Mel Gibson.  His part calls for an uneasy balance between a paranoid psychotic and romantic leading man and he treds that fine line beautifully.  Despite all his craziness, he is totally likeable and his relationship with the Julia Roberts character is wonderfully complex and believable.  Julia Roberts also gives an excellent performance and the chemistry between the two leads is perfect.All in all, I loved this film and didn't understand why it was so underrated by the critics. "},{"Title":"What an underrated movie!","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"33 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Mel Gibson gives a great performance here, as well as Julia Roberts! The story is really good, and the movie has some great plot twists. The only thing I disliked was the fact that Patrick Stewart didn't have a bigger role...The movie also has quite some funny moments and lots of action. This definately is one of Richard Donner's best films to date, due especially to the outstanding performance of Mel Gibson! If you haven't seen it yet and if you're looking for an intelligent, well-acted movie, this is the one! "},{"Title":"Difficult to get into ... but worth the wait in the end.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I found this film really hard to focus on, there was Mel Gibson playing a paranoid crazy guy, being dragged off by government/non-government 'spooks' and having some sort of weird obsession with Julia Roberts.  But as the film unfolded, and the storyline, a complex one, began to unravel it all started to make some kind of sense.  My favorite part has to be the self destruction of his apartment, that was quite imaginative.  Before I saw this i was expecting something along the lines of Lethal Weapon, being the same star, and same director.  But it was so completely different from what I thought it would be and it actually ended up being a better film as a consequence. Mel Gibson played a completely different character than what we usually see, which worked to his benefit and Julia Roberts proved with this film, that she still had star power.  Definitely worth a look.   "},{"Title":"Great, A splendid cross of 12 MONKEYS and PAYBACK","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"    If you liked PAYBACK and 12 MONKEYS, you will love this film. I have one thing to say about this film... Mel GIbson.  He plays a paranoid, noble, apparent stalker, who has intelligence and wit,but lacks ability to express himself fully.  Can't say more because it might ruin the movie.    CONSPIRACY THEORY IS A MUST SEE.  It ranks in my top 25 category  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite mystery/thrillers","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A great movie to watch.......is that sentence a conspiracy against you to see this movie? Did the government tell me to write this? That's what it's like through the eyes of Jerry Fletcher. A taxi driver who sees conspiracies in EVERYTHING, even in money. The opening scene with the people in the cab is great, all the conspiracies he warns them about...It's great. From Richard Donner(Lethal Weapon 1,2,3 and 4), come Conspiracy Theory, a movie that teaches you to trust no one. This movie deserves about 7.1 stars I'd say, not 6.4, like IMDB has. the voters must not have really paid attention to this movie because it's great.   The plot is conspiracy freak Jerry Fletcher(Mel Gibson), for some reason can not seem to stop watching over Alice Sutton(Julia Roberts), and he is always telling her about his new conspiracy theories, and she never has the heart to tell him to just go away. So one day Jerry ends up being kidnapped, and put in a torture room, where he is being asked questions by Patrick Stewart(X-Men)(I won't tell you what his name is in the movie because it might ruin a little bit). After he escapes and tells Alice, who thinks he's crazy, they both end up finding themselves in a grand conspiracy, that leads to one of the best climaxs I've ever seen. Mel Gibson is perfect as the paranoid Jerry Fletcher, who has locks even on coffee cans in his fridge(which also has a lock). Julia Roberts does a pretty good job as Alice Sutton as well. Patrick Stewart was good as.....I'm not going to tell you but he was good. And The movie had an excellent script, and the characters interacted wonderfully together. It's a great film, and I'm glad it wasn't filled with loads of F-words like other R rated movies. It's actually a good film for kids I'd say 12 and older, it's really not all that violent. I thouroughly enjoyed this movie and I definately recommend it to you. 4 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Romance, Suspense, Conspiracies, Good Acting, Superb Directed!","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, there was some emotional moments. Gibson's acting is the best on the world. He plays a cab driver (Jerry Fletcher) in love with Julia Roberts(Alice Sutton), he has theories about conspiracies. He puts his theories on a newsletter called Conspiracy Theory, they're never right, so no one gives a damn about it. But now, one of his theories is right, but he doesn't know which one and the only person he trusts is the person he loves.In terms of romance, Consp. Theory was better then Titanic. How? Let's see In Titanic, DiCaprio meets Winslet, three days later, she strips for him and they have sex in the back seat of the car. Is that love? Or teenage sex? In Conspiracy Theory, he met Alice for six months, he's in love with her, but he's shy, he doesn't just meet her and sleep with her. And what's more romantic? The guy dies and she stays alive and stays sad for the rest of her life (Titanic)? Or they both live and live happy ever after (Conspiracy Theory)? I'll give a 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"The charm of ambiguities","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Quite a very good film. It is a thriller and the main character looks and sounds psychotic at least, if not schizophrenic. He definitely speaks of some kind of persecution and he lives right at the heart of a conspiracy and we discover very fast he is the one who is trying to undo it. The film becomes very complex little by little and we are confronted to various security agencies fighting one against the others to capture that man and the main names are CIA and FBI. What makes the film even more complex is that the man is in love, and we know that from the very first moment he is tom-peeping onto her, with the woman who works for the Justice Department, third official security force in the picture. The point is to understand why these people are after him and why he is after the Justice Department to which he wants to speak. What is the secret in that man's head and mind? The film is a perfect thriller because of the action but also because that action is not for itself, for the sake of itself, for its own sake. That action is treacherous because we do not know whether we have to support those official security services or the woman who is kind of an innocent witness trapped in the middle of a mud pile or the man who seems to be justified in a way to run away because of the violence the security services put on the table. The end will be tricky in many ways but the film will remain one more film on the danger of the industrial military complex and the divided loyalties of the security services in such situations. Some of them are after all maybe not so bad. Maybe we can sleep in full peace and in one piece, trusting the faithfulness of some security agents who will reprieve the bad reputation of their agencies.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"breathtaking film, outstanding performances you only wish it won't happen to you.","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  We have all thought that certain incidents that we can't explain or the explanation we were given was inadequate, could be because of a greater secret plan or conspiracy, i.e Elvis death, Princess Diana's accident or JFK's assasination  are some of those mysteries. Well in this film Mel Gibson sees a conspiracy everywhere and tries to pursuade Julia Roberts, that certain 'incidents' weren't quite as they seem. His whole behaviour though tends to be slightly psychotic and therefore no-one really pays attention to him. Except for Julia, who's not quite sure what to believe. Until the day that Mel is abducted by Patrick Stewart and then gets away, only to show up in the justice department where Julia works, all covered in blood. When Julia hears his story she starts wondering for the first time '...what if....' The story becomes faster and faster and now Julia is a target too.Outstanding performances, great script, brilliant direction.WELL DONE! "},{"Title":"Nice surprises along the way of the movie","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Surprises are always being strewn around along the way to the end. You never know who's is and who's out, who's good and who's bad until near the end. Keeps you guessing and then surprises you. You start thinking Mel Gibson is a bit mad and paranoid, but realize that he might be saner and smarter than you are as the movie progresses. Quite an intelligent plot and though I'd like the ending to be a bit more 'happy' than it is, overall, it is one to enjoy. "},{"Title":"The visions of Jerry F.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Jerry Fletcher is a cabbie in New York. He´s mad  about conspiracies. He´s got his own little  magazine called The conspiracy theory, but nobody believes his weird visions. One day, some strange guys attack Jerry, but he can escape. The only  person he can trust is Alice, a district attorney.  He knows that one of his theories has become true. Mel Gibson and Richard Donner, the director of  the Lethal weapon-series, did it again. They´re a dream team! But this time the focus is not on the action scenes, it´s more the psychological  thrill that rules - when you see the black  helicopters over New York, it gives you the feeling of being watched over. Jerry Fletcher was a tragic hero to me, really - similar to the Martin Riggs character in Lethal weapon, who lost his wife in a car accident. Here it´s the relationship to Alice (Julia Roberts) which gives the movie  the emotionality - Mel and Julia were a wonderful couple.  Conspiracy theory sometimes reminded  me of The fugitive, but also of Hitchcocks North by northwest. Speaking of  movie classics,  there were some nice hommages in it the nose-bite (Chinatown!) and the assault on Jerry (The marathon man!). Besides, Carter Burwells soundtrack  is a must-hear and gives the movie a very special  atmosphere. After the few times I´ve been watching  it, this is one of my absolutely favorites.  A breathtaking thriller!  "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Films","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is a wonderful suspense, mystery, thriller film that will keep you on the edge of your seat until the end. The plot is full of twists and turns plus a lot of action.Allice Sutton (Julie Roberts) is batted back and forth between Dr. Jonas (Patrick Stewart) and Jerry Fletcher (Mel Gibson). It is hard to trust either man, but she finds herself caught in a web of lies in which she has to pick a side, and we don't know the truth of the matter until the end of the film.While the film is full of action, my favorite moment in the film is where Jerry Fletcher begins to cry about his multiple volumes of Catcher in the Rye.I have never been a big fan of Julia Roberts, but she does an amazing job performing the character of Alice Sutton. Jerry Fletcher I still believe to this day is Mel Gibson's best role ever. He does an amazing job performing a paranoid New York cabbie. Patrick Stewart (who is one of my favorite actors by far) is Dr. Jonas who is the only one who knows Jerry's true history.After I first saw this film about ten years ago, it became my favorite film, and though opinions change over the years, it still remains among my most favorite. It is full of so many twists and so many angles on the truth, you're not sure who to really believe until the end of the film. It is one of the most suspenseful films I have ever seen. (Not as in scary suspenseful, but as in you don't know what will happen next). "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson Goes Crazy","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Movie superstars love to indulge themselves in vanity projects that reflect this eccentric facet of their personalities. In the cinematically polished, but complicated amnesiac mystery-thriller Conspiracy Theory, Mel Gibson impersonates a flaky New York cabbie named Jerry Fletcher. Although he imitates the formula action hero he limned in the Lethal Weapon movies, Conspiracy Theory qualifies as a vanity project because Gibson plays an everyday citizen instead of a crusading cop. Moreover, Jerry is not tightly wrapped. Forrest Gump and he might have hit it off okay. Jerry's prone to fits of anxiety and paranoia. Sometimes the least little thing will touch him off. As Jerry, Gibson acts perfectly rational one minute but totally loony tunes the next instant. If incarnating such a Bohemian character were not enough, Gibson models his hare-brained hack on the sarcastic Warner Brothers character Bugs Bunny. At one point, Jerry compares his antics to the Road Runner, but at heart he's clearly a Bugs kind of guy. Conspiracy Theory, on closer inspection, emerges as a rather lengthy Merry Melody cartoon, with villainous Patrick Stewart sharing some characteristics of Elmer Fudd, Bug's perennial adversary, while Julia Roberts appears as a Tweety Bird of sorts.The cartoon comparison seems valid when you consider the outrageous elements in Brian (Assassins) Helgeland'S murky script, along with Gibson's self-depreciating humor. Jerry's cluttered apartment resembles Bug's hutch, and this cabbie has an escape hatch that Bugs would truly envy. Jerry loves to play pranks and he pulls one in the tradition of American Graffiti on the spies who are supposed to track him. At other times, Jerry outsmarts himself like Bug's often does and gets caught. Stewart's first encounter with Jerry is straight out of A Clockwork Orange. Before the interrogation ends, Jerry has bitten Dr. Jonas's nose and is careening about in a wheelchair screaming hilariously at the top of his voice. Gibson's Jerry proves as much a Houdini as Bugs is in his escapades with Elmer.As written by Helgeland, Conspiracy Theory is hard to follow because he throws out enough red herrings to pickle the plot. During the opening credits, we get to watch Jerry blitz his passengers with his crack pot conjectures. For example, he believes the metal pins in new hundred dollar bills are really tracking devices. He complains, too, that Benjamin Franklin on the new bills resembles the love child of Rosie O'Donnell and Fred Mertz, (I Love Lucy's next door neighbor). Or that the fluoride in the water does not promote our dental health but is rather to break down our mental health. Jerry publishes a conspiracy theory newsletter, but only five people subscribe to it. The good conspiracy is an unprovable one, he tells Julia Roberts. Jerry scans the daily newspapers for any trace of a cover-up. Early in the film, Jerry is convinced NASA is going to kill the president, so he visits Federal attorney Alice Sutton (Roberts) to warn her about the plot. At first, Sutton thinks Jerry is a polite wacko, until she starts to see some of his warning signs.Enter Dr. Jonas (Patrick Stewart), an urbane, bespectacled Harvard shrink who desperately wants to lay his hands on Jerry. Stewart plays Dr. Jonas with a Borg in his eye. Stewart's commanding presence lends credence to his villainy. Jerry, it seems, participated as a Jonas experiment in mind control program along the lines of the 1960's paranoid thriller The Manchurian Candidate where the Chinese brainwashed U.S. troops and turned them into assassins. Jonas tried to make Jerry into a killer, but his efforts proved futile. Somehow, somebody else grabbed Stewart's subjects, and he has been trying to catch Jerry since to learn who stole his technology. Meanwhile, another super secret agency represented by Hatcher (Cylk Cozart) has been keeping tabs on Jerry to capture Dr. Jonas. In the middle stands federal prosecutor Alice Sutton who has just been told to stop investigating the murder of his father a federal judge. Although she reluctantly believes Jerry initially, later she comes to hate and fear him.Director Richard Donner and Helgeland are careful to present Jerry as a mad as a March hare hero. Meanwhile, they construct Alice Sutton as the paragon of intelligence and sanity. The character that Julia Roberts plays is indispensable. She proves Jerry is paranoid, but she realizes eventually that his paranoia is justified. Conspiracy Theory is really two stories woven into one. Jerry Fletcher searches as much for his own sanity as Alice Sutton does the murderers of his father. That's the other plot. Alice Sutton's father, a federal judge, has been murdered and she refuses to give up the investigation. Integrating these two apparently unrelated plots together into a smooth, unobtrusive way forces scenarist Helgeland and director Donner to add about a half-hour's worth of story to the film.Since the filmmakers dump all this convoluted narrative onto you with as little exposition as possible, you may find Conspiracy Theory more than a little overwhelming. Conspiracy Theory struggles to be North by Northwest with a sprinkling of One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest. Actress Julia Roberts has more to do than just stand around and look like a pretty woman in Conspiracy Theory. As a hard nosed Federal prosecutor, she gets to shoot guns, ride horses, and talk her way out of tight-spots with the FBI. Gibson and she develop real chemistry when they go on the run. While Jerry gets to play hero in the first part of the film, Alice Sutton gets to dominate the heroics in the second half. Ultimately, all it boils down to is Mel Gibson. He gets to play a resourceful hero and a sympathetic victim. We are rooting for him the entire time, because there is no way Mel Gibson can be a crook. As charismatic as Gibson is as Jerry Fletcher, you cannot mistake his insouciant wit as anything other than a Bugs Bunny gesture. Now, if Mel had only uttered What's Up, Doc? "},{"Title":"Inconsistent","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Conspiracy Theory is a fairly good movie, it's entertaining sure but it did tend to drag in parts for me and felt inconsistent as a whole. Mel Gibson's crazy performance waffles between brilliance and just plain over-the-top and I had a hard time believing any part of the romancy thing going on between him and Julia Roberts as he was just a little too certifiable for anyone to fall for. And while the whole conspiracy theory/Manchurian Candidate aspect was super interesting there were also sections explaining this storyline that just went on too long and ended up being really boring. Enjoyed Patrick Stewart as the bad guy 08.13 "},{"Title":"Which Theory Is True?","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Mel Gibson is most sympathetic as conspiracy theorist Jerry Fletcher, who lives in a ultra-secure, booby trapped apartment where he publishes his newsletter critical of the government. Ironically, he loves government employee Alice Sutton(played by Julia Roberts) from afar. One day, their worlds collide when one of Jerry's theories seems to be true, as he becomes the target of assassination, and Alice helps him to go on the run from the unknown government forces. He thinks that Dr. Jonas(Patrick Stewart) will help him, but it turns out that was one conspiracy he didn't anticipate...Entertaining thriller is well directed by Richard Donner, with a good pace and reasonably believable story, though it does go on a bit too long, and becomes a bit too convoluted, but otherwise this film works well, and some of Jerry's theories may not be so nutty anymore... "},{"Title":"Conspiracy And Paranoia","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Conspiracy Theory is an action thriller film that features two of the Hollywood A-list stars namely Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts.The original screenplay,written by Brian Helgeland,centers on an eccentric taxi driver who believes many world events are triggered by government conspiracies, and the U.S. Justice Department attorney who becomes involved in his life.It was directed by Richard Donner.Conspiracy Theory centers on the themes of conspiracy and paranoia.Jerry Fletcher is a New York City cab driver who seems to have absorbed every bit of crackpot information passed along as suppressed news that's surfaced on talk radio or the Internet in the past 20 years. Jerry's heard 'em all and believes most of them, and even publishes his own journal of forbidden information, with a subscription list that now totals five people. In short, Jerry seems like just another New York City lunatic, and while he spends a fair amount of his spare time following Alice Sutton, a government attorney. Alice regards him as harmless; he once intervened while she was being mugged, and he's been acting like her benign if whacked-out protector ever since. However, one day Jerry is kidnapped and worked over by CIA operatives; he is convinced that one of the theories he uncovered must be for real -- but he has no idea which one. He tries to get Alice to help him, and before long both are drawn into a dangerous web that leads to a startling revelation of just how Jerry got this way.The movie is definitely not short on entertainment.Mel Gibson gives a fine and comic performance as Jerry.He is able to carry the film and make it interesting from beginning to end.Julia Roberts is also worthy of mention and provides outstanding and brilliant acting as she shares great chemistry with Gibson.Unfortunately,the romantic aspect between the two characters looks implausible considering that Gibson's character seems lunatic and paranoid.Also,some parts of the story are far from realistic especially the traits that Jerry has considering that he is always ahead of the government,police,FBI and even the CIA.But nevertheless,one might say that it is just a movie and the story provides suspense and tension inspite of the wit and humor inserted in between scenes. "},{"Title":"What if all those crazy conspiracy theories end up being true.","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Now this movie is just brilliant. It is exactly the type of movie that I just love. There so much happening in the background and you are never sure what really is happening. The theme of this movie is the truth will set you free, but what really is the truth. The movie leads you to believe one thing and then confronts you with something that destroys everything the you had built up, only to knock this down as well.What really is true? You will never know. You follow the main character through out the movie &#x96; and this character really knows a lot. On the outside he appears to be a nut with all of these conspiracy theories but then a layer is pealed off to reveal a little more about this character. What does this character really know? Who is he &#x96; well the movie may tell you, or it may not.You know who the bad guy is, or is he really the bad guy. The only certainty is Julia Roberts' character. She seems to be legit, or is she. Yes I am being ambiguous for this is the whole aspect of this movie. Ambiguity reigns and as you dig deeper in to look for the truth, the more questions that are raised.As such this movie is brilliant. It is in the similar vein to the Usual Suspects. It creates a story only to tear it down and leaving you wondering what happened. It is the ultimate conspiracy theory. The conspiracies that Mel Gibson's character brings out seem to be ultimately wild &#x96; yet they do seem to make sense.Mel Gibson's character is brilliant. He is like a child with huge amounts of knowledge. At first is appears to be a simple cab driver with a tonne of wild ideas; and then the layers of his character begin to be peeled off. What does he really know? The character doesn't know the answer to this question. One thing that is very definite is that he really brings out patterns. He can see a pattern in almost everything and the patterns he pulls out really makes one think &#x96; are these really conspiracies.One brilliant aspect of the movie are the little tricks and gadgets that are used. They do not dominate the movie; but they are there to show us how intelligent this character really is. The Firewall and the Beer Bomb are two examples. The beer bomb is where a bottle is balanced on the door knob and when the knob is turn the bottle breaks. The firewall is a much more brilliant thing for it will utterly destroy the apartment without damaging anything else. If it is brilliant and clever tricks that you are looking for then this is a movie to see.Patrick Stewart plays the bad guy &#x96; or is he a bad guy. Stewart is a brilliant actor; unfortunately his seven year stint in Star Trek has dulled his edge. When I see Stewart on the screen I immediately think of Captain Picard. This, to me, can really destroy a really good actor. Mel Gibson is seen as Mel Gibson; Julia Roberts is seen as Julia Roberts; but one cannot help seeing Patrick Stewart as Captain Jean-luc Picard. There was one gripe I had with the movie, but I cannot tell you because if I did it would spoil it. It is one the really would have made it absolutely brilliant; but in a fallen world nothing is brilliant.Remember the words of the movie &#x96; the truth will set you free. "}{"Title":"A sweet nugget","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The very title of Conspiracy Theory suggests a Big Movie about Big Conspiracy Theories, à la JFK.  And CT surely includes enough elements of popular conspiracy theories -- CIA mind control, black helicopters, U.S. government plots to assassinate its own President, and Manchurian Candidates -- to do Oliver Stone proud.But Conspiracy Theory isn't a Big Movie -- it's a small, sweet, and more than slightly quirky nugget of a movie.  Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts are just right as the half-psychotic conspiracy theorist and the skeptical-but-compassionate U.S. attorney.  Their enmeshment in the conspiracies and with each other make for great tension and drama.  The supporting cast is great too, particularly Patrick Stewart's Dr. Jonas, who's as evil as any character ever on celluloid yet just as charming as Capt. Jean-Luc Picard ever was.  The story strikes a happy balance between action and the deepening relationship between Gibson's Fletcher and Roberts' Sutton.  And Carter Burwell's music, rich and spiced with just enough camp, makes this nugget delicious indeed.In the end, the conspiracies are only the fabric of Conspiracy Theory, and not its heart at all.  In the context of the film the conspiracies are real, but it doesn't really matter whether they're real.  Jerry *thinks* they're real, and that makes his battle -- against the conspiracies and his own flashbacked confusion -- heroic.  Ultimately CT is about courage, and about love emerging from the strangest of beginnings.  And even those aren't to be taken too seriously.  Conspiracy Theory has moved to my short shelf of perennial favorites, a movie that leaves me heartened, hopeful, and grinning. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated Story","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie was run down by the critics and people seem to come away with the thought that Jerry was crazy and finally one out of his many theories was real. Maybe that is part of the conspiracy.When I first saw it in the theater, I would have agreed with most of the reviews in general. However, after watching the DVD now that I have studied and researched many of the conspiracies mentioned by Jerry throughout the movie, I know that most have been proved to be true conspiracies and not theory. This is what makes the movie more interesting to me, that information released later has backed up most of the theories.The lesson to be learned is that Jerry was never crazy. He was injured, and unfortunately he was set up to have problems nearly impossible to prove. If no one had believed enough to listen to him, there would have been no story.The question is why do viewers still come away with the belief that Jerry is crazy, and got himself into trouble when he was doing about all he could to deal with his post traumatic condition, and was picked up just for discovering some CIA offices by being suspicious.The movie has a lot of twists and turns, and maybe a few too many toward the end, but I was amazed to find that most of the conspiracy theories mentioned are now known and documented as true. "},{"Title":"An extremely well made film!","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 1. The story is unique, exciting, and well-constructed. You don't know whether Jerry Fletcher (Gibson) is really a kook, psycho, or all of the above until the very end. It is an inspired moment when we finally find out. True 'surprise endings' are rarely well-done in Hollywood, (not since THE STING), and this one rocks. 2. Mel Gibson's acting amazes me again. I was never a Gibson fan until TEQUILA SUNRISE, when Mel dropped his Aussie accent and impressed many. 3. The unlikely romance between Jerry and Alice is breathtaking. That a total loser like Jerry can overcome himself and win the heart of this woman inspires us all. You will cry at the end. 4. Finally, the production and SFX will impress even the most jaded moviegoer. It is peculiar how fast we became bored with gigantic SFX and CGI technology, but these action sequences are really well done with a flair that relies on ingenuity rather than just throwing money at the audience. Give it a shot, it is a great action thriller! "},{"Title":"Interesting, but uneven!","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Richard Donner's 'Conspiracy Theory' isn't without its share of interesting moments & has a solid cast that deliver, but overall, its an uneven! The Writing isn't always tight & never makes much use of its brilliant concept.'Conspiracy Theory' Synopsis A man obsessed with conspiracy theories becomes a target after one of his theories turns out to be true. Unfortunately, in order to save himself, he has to figure out which theory it is.'Conspiracy Theory' begins tepidly, I wasn't engaged in its initial moments at all. However, the film grows on you gradually & maintains a certain pace till the very end. I'd like to single out the dramatic scenes & also the portions involving the menace (A Solid Sir Patrick Stewart), that stand out. But, the writing isn't consistent or tight. It falters at places & even though its not boring, it never achieves anything extraordinary either.Brian Helgeland's Screenplay is a mixed bag. Sometimes its super, sometimes not very appealing. Sharper Writing would've made 'Conspiracy Theory' a knockout! Richard Donner's Direction is excellent, as always. The legendary filmmaker has handled this political thriller with command. Cinematography & Editing are average. Action-Sequences are realistic.Performance-Wise Mel Gibson is convincing in his portrayal of a man obsessed with conspiracy theories. Julia Roberts is sensational. She shines all through. Sir Patrick Stewart has never been so creepy before. He nails the part of the evil villain. On the whole, 'Conspiracy Theory' ranges from being good to strictly average. At best, A One-Time Watch! "},{"Title":"Interesting idea for a paranoid thriller","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Jerry Fletcher (Mel Gibson) is a paranoid NYC cabbie. He sees conspiracy theories everywhere and is willing to tell everybody about them. He has a troubled past and is obsessed with Justice department lawyer Alice Sutton (Julia Roberts) whom he rescued from a mugging 6 months ago. Then he gets kidnapped by spooks, tortured by Dr. Jonas (Patrick Stewart) and it's a matter of figuring out which theory of his got him into trouble.This movie wants to be and NEEDS to be a paranoid thriller. The audience has to question Jerry's sanity. However it never shows that he has hallucinations. Therefore it's never questioned that those things actually happened. Also his escapes come off as really silly and extremely unbelievable. I kept wanting the inner dark gritty paranoia conspiracy 70s drama to rise up but it's constantly stuck in a 90s action movie. There is an interesting idea of a movie. However there is light tone in the movie that is perpetuated by Mel Gibson's jokey performance and the FUN action scenes. This is not dark enough. If it wants to be a fun action movie, the lead should really be Julia Roberts. Mel should be the wacky co-star. My last complaint is the awkward attempt at romance. They have no chemistry at all and are better off not even going down that road. It cheapens Jerry's protection of her. The movie just wears down until the story becomes meaningless. "},{"Title":"patsy","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I've always been a fan of Conspiracy Theories so I figured I would check this one out,, it's above average,, based on the acting between our stars, Mel Gibson, Julia Robert,, and Patrick Stewart,, I was hoping for an actual conspiracy,, instead we get the old,, CIA, mind control stuff, rogue killer programmed to assassinate someone,, which isn't that bad, but some of the theories in the movie like the Oliver Stone --George Bush one,, I was like wow OK.. Mel's character, Jerry Fletcher is majorly paranoid, insanely crazy as one of his theories actually turns out to be true, problem for him is as he has so many now he has to figure out which theory he is right about,, he get's help from a young lady he saved from a mugging 6 months ago,, so he is like her guardian angel so to speak,, very interesting movie,, once you get by all the covert military mind control stuff. "},{"Title":"My theory- this movie is OK","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" As long as there's been man, there's been conspiracies. For example....-Do aliens really exist? -Did man walk on the moon? -Was JFK really shot in the head? -Is Elvis still alive? -Are Phil Smyth's substitution patterns really a secret code he's sending to the Chinese Government?Conspiracy Theory, starring Mel Gibson (star of What Women Want) and Julia Roberts (star of Mystic Pizza), join forces to star in this movie about a man who is full of conspiracies...and one day seems to stumble upon one that is real. Before long Jerry(Gibson) is running for his life. Luckily he gets some help from a Justice Dept worker, Alice (Roberts), a long time crush and listener to his crackpot theories. It becomes clear though that there's more to this discovery, and the web of mystery becomes an intricate as a spider's web.Not bad, help my interest and got me through a quiet Fri night. Loses points for the woeful score. "},{"Title":"It works against type.","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Trying to write a review of this movie is difficult without adding any spoilers, but I'll give it a try.Just like Mel is cast against type, there are many things about this movie that go against type. The hero isn't really the hero and the bad guys aren't really bad guys. At least some aren't. And for a dark movie with lots of mystery, it is amazingly light and amusing. The dark lighting is well balanced against the energizing music.For a thriller and a who-done-it, this movie just makes you feel good all the way through.Watching Mel here shows the broad range of his talent. Its fun to see him in a role where he is not the perfect man, with the perfect smile, super cool, with all the martial arts and macho skills. I kind of think of this as a companion movie to Payback. It has the same feel and tone. And you just want to root for someone here that in real life you would just dismiss.I like this movie and recommend to anyone who appreciates a well-crafted movie.  "},{"Title":"I'm surprised, A fantastic movie.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fantastic! It's one of the best movies I have ever seen. A good combination of action and romance. Mel Gibson, Julia Roberts and even Patrick Stewart did their best to Richard Donner make his great movie. Also music sounds comfort. I really recommend everybody to see this movie. and the final scene took me to crying mood.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all time.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was really a surprise for me. I knew and i heard that this movie is marvelous but i wanted to find out by myself. Honesty, the movie is great! Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts steal the scenes and the plot leads you in another world full of action, passion and romance. Go see this film. It's really worth it. That's all i want to say. Just the truth! "}{"Title":"Tell me what you know!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This film is one of my all time favourites despite doing poorly at the cinemas, I believe there are more things going on around us than we are aware of.I am also a big fan of Mel Gibson after seeing him in the Lethal Weapon movies and Richard Donner the director here did those films as well so the crew was excellent.For those out there who knock this film for being unrealistic I say this how do you know, since it is set around a premise which by its very nature nobody knows anything about how do you know how realistic it is.7/10 "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable, satisfying movie","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  It's an action film, a mystery, a thriller, and a terrific romance all rolled into one, not overdone, set in the actual world of conspiracy theorists.  I saw it on cable, I'm going to have to rent it again to show my wife.  I measure thrillers by the number of bruises she puts on my arm; I think this will be a ten bruiser!Jerry Fletcher is a cabbie deeply into secret conspiracies, political assassins, the CIA, the FBI, NASA, etc. -- about as deep as anyone could get.  And when he publishes a newsletter, things start happening to him...Beautiful Julia Roberts plays Alice Sutton perfectly -- she is exactly balanced between believing Jerry Fletcher and not believing him.  Does she tolerate him because the script says she has to -- the obligatory Hollywood romantic interest -- or is there a reason?I didn't see any gross logical or science errors in the movie. There are indeed some disturbing aspects to conspiracy theories, but if you don't believe them yourself, you're not required to; only that Jerry believes them. Has the CIA ever assassinated key political people? Do black helicopters really hover silently and deliver men on droplines? In Jerry's world they do; we get to feel that sinking feeling if they came for us.You'd think Hollywood would be running out of ways to escape the bad guys, but Jerry pulls some great moves -- he's very dangerous, oddly so for a fumbling hilarious borderline psycho.But who is he really?  That's the kicker, and Alice must find out.  "},{"Title":"Atmosphere beats plot.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  When renting the Conspiracy Theory, I had a one and a half year old kid with me in the video store. While desperately trying to stop him from reaching for every accessible piece of candy, choosing a movie was really just a matter of finding an eye-catching box as fast as possible. The faces of Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts did the job, and I was not to be disappointed.The story of an obviously mad taxi driver, Gibson, trying to get a well situated beautiful woman, Roberts, to share his conception of the American government as being just about based on far-reaching conspiracies is, though intriguing, hardly convincing. This lack of credibility in the story is however well compensated by the lead actors; if the incredible plot would actually unfold in real life, Gibson and Roberts would definitely be there. This movie is definitely worth watching, not for its story-line which tries, but fails, to surprise, but for the charming atmosphere around the main characters, peaking with their short visit to Jerry's (Gibson's) apartment. I award it seven pleasant and rather humorous stars!  "},{"Title":"Great Storyline!","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know if I'm just slow or what, but the movie kept me guessing all the way to the end on what's gonna happen next.  Jerry Fletcher is a very lovable character...and I certainly give Mel Gibson 10 stars for his GREAT acting in the film.  Cheers! "},{"Title":"One of the most touching love-stories ever","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Before watching Conspiracy Theory, I expected to see another big action comedy from the Silver/Donner/Gibson-Team. I never thought that it would also be one of the most touching love-stories ever.Certainly, the relationship between Alice and Jerry is not the main aspect of the thriller, but it is greatly impressing. The rest is hollywood-entertainment at its best the Lethal Weapon - proven action, Jerry`s crude theories and much humour (including insider gags and a cameo by Danny Glover) as well as real suspense and thrill. The romantic part of the film deals with the emotions of two lonely people, Mel Gibson as the confused and paranoid taxi driver Jerry, and Julia Roberts as a sad and restless lawyer called Alice. Shy and prude, both search for something that frees them from their unbearable situations. And a super Soundtrack supports these scenes and makes them very effective.If you liked the film, you may be interested in the following recommendations Payback, action-thriller by Brian Helgeland with Mel Gibson and much black humour; Enemy of the State, paranoia-thriller by Tony Scott with many stars and a lot of action; Maverick, comedy by Richard Donner with Mel Gibson and pure fun.  "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson!!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Mel Gibson turns a grade four movie into a seven.  He does this with sheer grit, remarkable intensity, and incredible (especially in a cliche-ridden action flick)consistency.  One goes through this movie with him in the same way one went through a Janis Joplin performance--on a very high wire. Certainly memorable--his madness, his beauty, his human-ness (how can we forget all those very personal apologies for his defensive violence).  And certainly his toughness, not this canned romance stuff, should have marked the final scene "},{"Title":"Conspiracy Theory, making paranoia fun...","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  At the beginning of the movie, we make friends with Jerry (Mel Gibson, Lethal Weapon, Bird on a Wire) while he shares with us his suspicions and beliefs we begin to put these theories into consideration which he has concocted. Then we meet Alice Sutton (Julia Roberts, Pretty Woman, My Best Friend's Wedding) of the Justice Department who Jerry befriends. As Jerry begins to have confrontations with the people behind his theories he and Alice get drawn into a world of government cover-ups and assassinations where Alice begins to pick up leads to her father's murder.In this film Richard Donner illustrates paranoia in a somewhat satire attitude while at other times in total fear and distrust. Gibson portrays his role well as does Roberts in her role of desperation.This is by far one of my top ten, a must-see, and a new classic.9/10 "},{"Title":"Good movie and good actors.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  It's a very good movie with great actors in the leading parts and the story is thrilling and intense.  "},{"Title":"A Great Movie!","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Wow, this was a great movie -- I was so glad to see Julia Roberts and Mel Gibson finally team up.  The plot was engrossing and there was enough action to keep you on the edge of your seat.Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson wins over Julia Roberts to his conspiracy theory","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Conspiracy Theory is Hollywood at its best, combining capable stars, thrills, romance, with a well-written and well-plotted script under sure direction. I enjoyed it thoroughly.Mel Gibson does a terrific job as the taxi driver who has many conspiracy theories and then turns out not to be a kook but to have the best of reasons for getting pulled in to a real conspiracy.Julia Roberts shows her acting chops by effortlessly playing a government security employee who finds herself completely enmeshed with Gibson, not least because of his motivation to protect her and how that came about.Solid entertainment that does not require much effort to enjoy. "}{"Title":"Excellent movie!!!! A Classic!!!!!!","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I thought this was a highly original film with great acting, a great score, and lots of action and suspense. Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts were both excellent. This is the type of film that I could watch over and over again. It may have been a little under-appreciated at the time of its release, perhaps due to the fact that it dealt with conspiracy theories. However, with the passage of time, many of these theories have gained more acceptance with general public, making this film perhaps more relevant today than when it was first released. I think this was one of Mel Gibson's best performances and also a very intelligent performance by Julia Roberts. Thumbs up!!!!! A Classic!!!!! "},{"Title":"A memorable thriller, but also a slightly disappointing one","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This romantic thriller was made over a decade ago, years before I was old enough to watch R-rated movies, and by the time I rented it just yesterday, I still didn't know much about it. However, I did know that the co-stars were Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts, two Hollywood movie stars I had been familiar with for a long time. I also knew that it was directed by Richard Donner, who directed the Lethal Weapon quadrilogy, which Gibson also co-starred in. I had seen all four of those films, and thought that overall, it was a good franchise. So, I rented Conspiracy Theory because I knew it was another film directed by Donner and starring Gibson and it also looked like a promising thriller. Still, I wanted to like it more than I did.Jerry Fletcher is a New York taxi driver and dedicated conspiracy theorist. He can think of conspiracy theories for anything, and constantly talks to his passengers about them. He even writes his theories in his own newsletter, which is sent to only five different people in the mail. The taxi driver has a crush on Alice Sutton, and woman who works for the Justice Department and whose father was murdered, but she doesn't know about Fletcher's feelings towards her. One day, after he is kicked out of Alice's office, he is soon captured by a group of CIA agents and finds himself in a mysterious place where he is tortured by a CIA doctor named Dr. Jonas! This sends Jerry into a fit of insanity, and after he bites the doctor's nose, severely injuring him, he manages to escape from the building. It turns out that at least one of the New York taxi driver's many conspiracy theories appears to be true, but he can't tell which one it is! The beginning shows the main character ranting to various passengers in his cab about his conspiracy theories, and this is a fairly shaky beginning. Soon after that, there's a flashy sequence showing Jerry's frightening memories, and I found this part to be a little rushed and unfocused. A lot of the film can probably be described that way. That part is followed by a cheesy and overlong scene with the taxi driver watching his love interest through her window, singing on her treadmill. Despite all this, it still looks like it's going to be at least a fairly decent thriller around the beginning and it is at times, but it's not consistent enough. The early torture scene didn't do much for me, and it even features frightening memories of Jerry's flashing before his eyes again, with the same problems as the first time this happens. Another thing that doesn't help is that Jerry's constant conspiracy theories can get tiring. Fortunately, there are definitely some good thrills and action, and Mel Gibson puts on an impressive performance as Jerry Fletcher, though his character here is no match for the likable Martin Riggs in the Lethal Weapon series. Julia Roberts as Alice Sutton and Patrick Stewart (another actor I've been familiar with for a long time) as Dr. Jonas are also memorable cast highlights.At 135 minutes, this 1997 thriller is a fairly long movie, and later in the film, it didn't seem as flawed to me as it did for a long time before then. It might improve after a while, and Gibson's character might eventually get easier to sympathize with. I may have been worn out during the second half or so, and get the feeling I could have gotten just a BIT more out of the film (at least closer to the end) if I'd had a bit more energy. For that reason, I feel I could almost give it a 7/10 instead of a 6. On the other hand, I don't think having a high energy level would have hidden this movie's severe flaws from me, flaws which make Conspiracy Theory somewhat disappointing. Even if it does improve along the way, I would say it definitely takes quite a while to do so. This movie is by no means horrible, and could be entertaining if you like a good romantic thriller and are old enough to see the violence here, but it still didn't meet my expectations. "},{"Title":"Paranoia in Concrete.","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A strictly mediocre thriller about a political conspiracy of some kind. The two stars, who must have commanded salaries great enough to entitle them to better material, are Mel Gibson as a happily paranoid New York cabbie, and Julia Roberts as the Justice Department agent who first scoffs, then believes, then loves.The plot is similar to that of Three Days of the Condor. Some nonentity who specializes in finding conspiracies everywhere finally stumbles upon one that counts and is haunted by the villains AND the faceless instruments of acronymic government agencies who believe that he's dangerous for one reason or another. If it weren't for Julia Roberts, Mel Gibson would be babbling exclusively to himself.I don't know about Gibson. As a man, there are things about him I find admirable -- getting caught while drunk and strung out on drugs, for instance -- but as an actor he seems bland, and I generally wind up feeling that this is the wealthy Hollywood celebrity, Mel Gibson, enacting a role. And what a role. Half the time he's breathless with speech pressure and the other half he's hallucinating because he's been injected by Patrick Stewart with some kind of mind-bending substance with a name like Hexachloropromazinalpsychobenzodiazapine.Julia Roberts is a little more convincing but her role is so familiar and so devoid of originality in its execution that it's almost painful to watch her, despite her appealingly fragile bone structure and wraparound smile. There's also that tiny vein running vertically down (or up) her forehead.It could have been a more engaging movie if there had been a strong supporting cast, but in fact there isn't.At the end -- get this -- at the end, Gibson is trying to hold the struggling Stewart two feet underwater with a mop. Patrick manages to draw his pistol, cock it, and shoot Gibson in the chest multiple times -- from underwater. Not to be outdone, Roberts blows Stewart away by shooting HIM through two feet of water.Well, that wasn't quite the end. Carrying his couple of ounces of lead, Gibson collapses to the floor. Roberts hysterically hugs him, screaming out for an ambulance. Fade. Roberts in dark glasses is standing over a grave in a lonely cemetery. The headstone reads Mel Gibson, Hollywood Actor, Beloved Madcap. Roberts dabs at a tear, murmurs, I'll miss your face, and trudges away.I'm thinking, Whoa! This movie has had all the intricacy of one of those connect-the-dot drawings in the Sunday paper. You're supposed to wind up with a pencil picture of a clown, and here we have the mask of Tragedy? However -- well, I won't give the last shot away, but we have nothing to worry about. "},{"Title":"Very solid and interesting piece.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Just had my first viewing of this film and going into it having no idea about it's content I feel I've been well rewarded. A splice of genres from director Richard Donner backed up by two central performances from two of the biggest names of the 90s. I think the overriding thing I take from the film is the story itself, it's whole conspiracy theme and dark shadowy shenanigans make the film never less than interesting and it compels you to stay with it no matter what contrivances come your way.Starting out with a first reel leading you to believe that it's a comedy first and foremost the film then shifts to such a high gear it kind of submarines you to the point that you feel you have to rewind to see if you are not watching a double bill !, the pace is up and down and twists pop up at set point markers, but it works well because the story is an engrossing one and I feel Donner has done pretty much a perfect job with the material at hand.Julia Roberts is a safe choice as Alice Sutton, the role calls for a safe approach, say your lines with credibility and feed off the leading man, she does this with no problems at all, but she really is playing second fiddle to Mel Gibson's ball of energy performance as main protagonist Jerry Fletcher, it's a twitchy and potent turn from Gibson that I feel is vastly under praised in view of his career output. The supporting cast do not fare so well with Patrick Stewart particularly robotic as the..... is he the bad guy, isn't he the bad guy role, but the film culminates with a good ending to seal the deal and I really think this film is one that will get better with further viewings, 7/10. "},{"Title":"I'm only paranoid because they want me dead.","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie is worth watching to get a good laugh at the kooks that go around believing all this nonsense. You all know one. Maybe you are one. They, like Jerry (Mel Gibson), can find the most outrageous explanations for their beliefs. But, as Jerry says A good conspiracy is unprovable. I mean, if you can prove it, it means they screwed up somewhere along the line. How convenient! Julia Roberts, who had not had a hit since The Pelican Beif when she did this, went on to greater fame in Notting Hill and Erin Brocovich. She really played a classy role and kept the lid on Mel, who seemed like he was going to explode at any minute.Patrick Stewart was perfectly cast as the evil Government operative who was out of control. "},{"Title":"Very intelligent and subtle","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" First I have to state, that I'm a great fan of thrillers, especially one containing a clever conspiracy (You know how rare it is to find a CLEVER conspiracy in movies). This is one of my favourites. I like the whole cast, especially Patrick Stewart who delivers a great (I think one of his best) performance as the slightly cracked CIA psychiatrist.The Conspiracy in this movie is not a world threatening or out to gain world domination. It is a former CIA project to train the perfect killer. Now the psychiatrist responsible for this project has gone renegade and uses his killers for the most bidding.Jerry is a NY taxi driver and like any of them a little bit crazy. He is a firm believer in his many conspiracy theories. Somehow he seems to stumble over something, because suddenly he is targeted by CIA kidnapping and murder attempts. His sole ally in some way is district attorney Alice Sutton, the woman he loves more than anything. She's the daughter of a murdered judge.During the movie are many escape scenes in which Jerry almost every time succeeds due to clever planning and weird genius.I like that, though containing many action scenes, there is not a lot of over the top shooting and exploding going on. Most action scenes are escape based involving running, hiding and driving.Add to this the superb cast, the clever plot and some crazy (but agreeable) conspiracy theories and you know why I gave this movie 8/10 stars. My advice Rent it, buy it, watch it! "},{"Title":"See inside the life of a paranoid weirdo","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Mel Gibson plays a very unique character - a paranoid weirdo who believes that everyone is out to get him and everything that happens is part of some vast conspiracy. Julia Roberts plays a Justice Department worker who for some reason, Gibson's character likes to tell his far-fetched stories to. Patrick Stewart makes a believable bad guy - though it's still hard for me to see him and not see Captain Picard! There are enough twists and turns in this movie to keep you guessing, but not so many that it's hard to follow. A few places had some hard to believe moments, but not so much that it detracts from the movie much. This movie really kept my attention with a good story and intermittent action scenes.Gibson's character really makes this movie stand out to me. Little details like the way he locks everything in his apartment (the coffee is in a locked container in his locked refrigerator inside his six times over locked apartment) really make him a very interesting and real character to follow.Picard's character and a couple of the other 'bad guys' in the movie are a little less developed and their roles are not as well explained. This only detracts a little.Conspiracy Theory isn't on my best of all time list, but it is a very enjoyable 2 hours. Worth a watch.7 of 10.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly moving and involving romantic thriller","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I have to confess that I have quite a soft spot for this film. Its taken a while for it to grow on me but I really do like Conspiracy Theory. Its a glossy thriller with the requisite action,'funny' lines and intrigue but there's just something else which makes it memorable. The chemistry between Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts is great and they both give excellent performances. They kind of play inverted versions of each other. Gibson is manic and eccentric, never stopping for breath while Roberts is more muted (Pelican-Brief style). What gives Conspiracy Theory more of an impact than your average Richard Donner blockbuster is the emotional edge. The final half hour plays more like a tragic love story than an action thriller. You'll be surprised at just how sad the film is (Julia Roberts is the 'best fake crier in the world). And the final scene is bound to leave you with a goofy smile on your face. Flawed and not for everyone (as proved by the horrid reviews) but its up there with the best for me. All together now...I love you baby and if its quite alright..... "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy for the 90's(!)","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)Forgive me, but I liked this movie. I was seduced, I guess, because objectively speaking this is just your usual phony thriller, with chase scenes beginning in the first reel and continuing throughout, with the little guy as hero, and a convoluted plot worthy of a wanna-be thriller writer retired from the CIA.Mel Gibson plays a New York City cabby addicted to conspiracy theories, but (of course) it turns out that just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not out to get you. And boy are they ever! I felt every second that this was a stretch for Gibson, yet I think he almost made it. I admire his ability and his supreme confidence that he can play anybody. (He didn't do a bad job as Hamlet!) But here I think he is just too handsome and balanced and just too, too normal looking to make us believe he is a paranoid stalker. I mean, how many women would be worried if Mel Gibson was stalking them? Still the plot, properly understood, allows for a normal man to end up in his situation since he was brainwashed and drugged.Julia Roberts as a justice department lawyer is beautiful beyond any telling of it, and she does have a face for the silver screen like no other. Hollywood, as Norma Desmond told us, is about faces, and director Richard Donner had the very good sense to put the camera tight, very tight, on Julia Roberts' face as often as possible and keep it there. She is especially good at projecting a wide range of emotions, including love, without saying a word, and I would say that is what has made her the great star that she is. Her face is so sexy that the five-second scene where she hops out of bed in her loose-fitting pajamas was pure eroticism.There are a number of clever bits in the movie, including our paranoid hero keeping his food locked in canisters, locked in the refrigerator. I also liked the part where Roberts gains entrance by telling the hospital orderly that she is with the Treasury Department, and for ID hands him a hundred-dollar bill, allowing him to quip, This IS from the Treasury Department. Good too was Gibson caught by a network hook-up to a price scanner at the book store compulsively buying a copy of Salinger's Catcher in the Rye. (Shades of a future when, through the Web, our every purchase will be known to whoever cares.)With Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts as the stars, the subplot has got to be romantic, and it is. In this sense the movie is as silly as Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn ever got, and just as satisfying. "},{"Title":"Not very convincing, but great entertainment","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I liked the movie. Some great details like in the movie theatre, screening Ladyhawke, a forgotten movie by director Donner. (Not a chance in h*** that it's still showing )The story is a bit, well actually quite a lot over the top, but the acting is good. Now I'm one of those big Mel Gibson-fans, so I generally like his movies, but I still think this one is well worth seeing, even though you're not the biggest Mel Gibson-fan.The reason for seeing this should not be because you want an insight into conspiracy theories, but because you want to be entertained. This is good handywork. Richard Donner rarely fails to bring the action and fun to the audience, and if you can stand an all American flick with more muscles than brains, and more fun than ... well, brains again, go see it. It's worth the two hours you spend watching it! You could in any case do worse. (For example watch Ladyhawke...) )   "}{"Title":"We are living in a secret police state, get used to it.","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw previews of this movie I thought this was another stupid pointless summer blockbuster.  Buy my friend watched it and it was pretty good.  This was pretty enjoyable overall.  Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts are surprisingly good and Patrick Stewart delivers a decent performance as well.  The movie is about a very unusual man played by none other than Gibson who takes a liking to a certain woman who works for the federal government, played by Roberts.There is not much of the movie I can talk about without giving the plot away, but none the less this movie is very entertaining and will definitely make you wonder about our society and some of the interesting things that are often discussed and thought of, but there is little in terms of conclusive proof.  The movie is a typical action movie with a lot of twists and some decent surprises.This isn't a great movie and it is in some ways a typical Hollywood film in it's style and acting, but it manages to be pretty cool otherwise.  But I was surprised by the depth of this movie.  I wished at the time this movie came out that Patrick Stewart would have been in more films.  He is doing the X-Men series right now, but he could do more.  Roberts is not nearly as repulsive as she is in some of her other movies like My Best Friends Wedding.  SPOILER  I liked the ending.  It was not an unhappy ending it was not a happy ending, it was just an ending.   While I thought the movie was very good and very interesting I didn't think it was all that suspenseful.  The production value, the acting, the writing, and the overall quality was good, but this film was listed as a thriller, but I was rarely scared or thrilled.  The movie definitely was not predictable as a lot of Julia Roberts' film are, but not thrilling.Bottom line  this is a good movie to watch, not great.  The supporting cast is quite good and I love the conspiracy theories here.  This movie is a different twist on an otherwise pretty Hollywood film.  Sit back and enjoy, and make sure no one in the federal government knows that you are watching this movie.   "},{"Title":"Mediocrity Theory","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Oddly compelling but ultimately absurd tale of man (Gibson) kidnapped for CIA experiment involving mind control for the purpose of committing covertly sanctioned assassinations. His bizarre experience leads him to justice department attorney (Roberts) whose federal judge father (Bert Remsen in flashback) was slain by a brainwashed assassin. But when CIA mind control project boss (Stewart) discovers the potential for the secret to be revealed, he employs covert tactics to prevent the leak.Gibson is way over the top in his portrayal, a babbling nutcase with obsessive compulsive disorder and an extreme persecution complex. Roberts is suitably stony-faced, but just doesn't look convincing in her characterisation. Patrick Stewart is perhaps the most watchable aspect of this film, as the shady and clinically brutal CIA assassin trainer. Special mention to Cylk Cozart as one of trustworthy agents who manages a couple of mild chuckles when he feigns unconsciousness after misguided attempts to knock him out miss the mark.There's simply too many plot holes and contrivances to suspend disbelief for the mammoth two-hour plus duration. It's one of those movies that compels you to hang on in anticipation of some great revelation or moment, alas, it never eventuates. The climax is rushed and disappointing and the film's sing-a-long conclusion is embarrassing. No great shakes, just an immense waste of time. "},{"Title":"In New York anything can happen","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In this movie we see Julia Roberts playing a single lawyer, and Jerry (Mel Gibson), a taxi driver, is in love with her. Jerry always looks after her, he wants to protect her if anything happens. But his life is much more interesting than you might think! He lives in an awesome apartment decorated with United States flags and has everything under control. He reads hundreds of newspapers searching for possible conspiracies, and he writes a Conspiracy Theory Bulletin himself alone.The soundtrack in this movie is excellent, with a beautiful song Can't take my eyes out of you that you will remember after you see the movie. New York is a great place for this film, since it has plenty of interesting locations and the streets are clean and glamorous. In the ending credits take a look at the beautiful woods of Connecticut and enjoy the American natural landscape. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson is really a poor actor","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Not sure what happened but after the wheels came off of Mel Gibson's reputation, it seems everyone has had a better look at his films with a fresh look. For the most part Mel Gibson is a horrible actor. If he's not playing the part of Lethal Weapon Marty Riggs or some martyr who endures ungodly pain, he's got nothing. This film could be worse but Gibson's melodrama at certain parts is so forced so as to leave it with a terrible rating. Gibson does his crazy man Riggs mode in parts of this film and Patrick Stewart, Julia Roberts do what they can to save this mess.In short, Jerry is obsessed with a government agent. He has theories, conspiracy theories. The big question is whether it's all a big conspiracy theory and will she believe him? Well... what do you think? Which way will this movie go? I dunno!!! Predictable and, without spoiling the forced acting at the end, I can say that it's one of those nothing else is on cable movies. It's completely forgettable and, worse, it's not even a fun ride to get to the end. Patrick Stewart is good but wasted, given awkward lines that he does his best with and a resolution which is really unsalvageable. If you must watch, make sure you multitask so you won't regret the time investment. "},{"Title":"A pretty intriguing government secrecy thriller!","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is pretty intriguing thriller based on the secrets of government conspiracies. Cab driver Jerry Fletcher (Mel Gibson) spouts off plenty of conspiracy theories to his customers and, unfortunately for him, one of his theories proves right and he finds himself a target of evil government spies.The movie starts off a little slow but picks up speed when Fletcher is captured by CIA agents and is interrogated by the main villain, Dr. Jonas (Patrick Stewart), which leads to a game of cat and mouse as Fletcher dodges the bad guys left and right. Caught in the middle of all the chaos is Alice Sutton (Julia Roberts) of the U.S. District Attorney's Office, whom Fletcher has a crush on and ends up working with her to allude the spies and solve the mystery behind the conspiracy.The script is interesting and you will find some of the same plot elements of the The Bourne Identity in the movie. The acting was pretty good, as I thought Gibson and Roberts make a great team and had great on-screen chemistry, and I thought that Patrick Stewart made a formidable villain.Overall, a good government thriller that one will find engaging.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Gibson's Conspiracy.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Conspiracy Theory (1997) Dir Richard Donner / Cast Mel Gibson, Julia Roberts, Patrick Stewart, Cylk Cozart, Sean Patrick Thomas Intriguing thriller about corruption and the inability to communicate. It stars Mel Gibson as a cab driver who sees conspiracies everywhere and types them in a newsletter. He takes them to a lawyer played by Julia Roberts who accepts his unscheduled appearances because he saved her from muggers. He speaks without taking a breath, and his apartment is one big escape hatch. The villain is played by Patrick Stewart and he is the reason behind his paranoia. Clever despite an ending that isn't overly satisfying. Directed by Richard Donner whose partnership with Gibson has succeeded three Lethal Weapon films. He also made Superman The Movie as well as The Omen. Gibson is superb as a man smitten by fear but tries to expose it. Roberts is strong as a woman unaware of elements in her past particularly her father's death. What doesn't quite work here is where both roles are positioned in the conclusion. Patrick Stewart's villain is a let down in what can easily be summed up as a cardboard imitator of Laurence Olivier's sadistic Nazi dentist in Marathon Man. Other roles are not exactly broadened beyond paper thin either. Theme regards fact and fiction and the ability to tell the difference. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"A good conspiracy is an unprovable one.....","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Jerry Fletcher is a man in love with a woman he saved from muggers a while ago and now watches her from afar, like a pseudo guardian angel. She works for the government, but Fletcher is an outspoken critic of the government. He has conspiracy theories for everything, from aliens to political assassinations. One of his theories finds itself to be accurate. But which one? Some dangerous people want him dead, and the only person he trusts is the woman he loves....The thing with this film is that Gibson is doing his usual kooky schtick that we all know and love from other Donner movies and the action comedies that made him such a big hit in Hollywood after Mad Max. But, kooky and mental health problems really don't mix, so you find yourself never really warming to his character, because even though he says he isn't, Jerry is a potential threat to Alice, because the man is unpredictable, so the film is pretty unsure of what kind of genre it falls into.The thought of Gibson and Roberts starring in a film together must have sounded like a license to print money in 1997, but it's easy to see why it didn't hit big at the box office. If Donner had gone a little darker, and made it a full on thriller, it would've done much better, because it has dark elements, but Jerry is portrayed as a lovable dolt who's misunderstood.Roberts is okay as Alice, and really comes into her own during the final act. Stewart plays Basil Exposition here, used only to explain story arcs and plot points to us via Roberts, but he plays a good spook.But the Donner sheen is there, and any film featuring the Gibson and the director is worth watching, I just wished the studio had gone for the dark route, done a straight up thriller and got rid of the tagged on happy ending. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Missed Opportunity that is Mildly Entertaining","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In 1997 Art Bell was Starting to Climb to the Top of Late Night Talk Radio and When the Show Reached its Peak a Few Years Later the Only Radio Talk Show Host that had More Listeners was Rush Limbaugh. It Should be Noted that Both Made Their Name on Conspiracy Theories.Art Bell is Still Around After Retiring a Number of Times, and Rushbo, Well You Know What He is Doing, Still Spouting Conspiracies, but Bell has been Replaced with the Indefatigable Alex Jones as the Supreme Leader of the CT Sheepal. Anyway, the Mel Gibson/Julia Roberts Movie is a Missed Opportunity, Dumbed Down and Played Mostly Tongue in Cheek. The Decision to Have Gibson Play Jerry as a Looney Tune did the Movie No Service. Julia is OK and Plays it All Perfectly Straight.But the Film Really Doesn't Settle Into Any Consistent Tone. It Bounces Around, Like Jerry, from One Idea to Another and One Style to Another. Some of it Works, Not Surprisingly the Serious Scenes. But When Gibson Overacts to the Point of Farce, Things Spiral Out of Control and the Film Loses it's Bona Fide.OK, Maybe Folks Can Go Along with this Fluff Film, Because the Majority of People Think that All Conspiracy Theory Advocates are Wacky Packs, but Think Again. Some Conspiracy Theories Turn Out to be True or Mostly True. Just Do an Internet Search.But Back to this Mediocre Movie. Overall, it is Worth a Watch but Prepare for Some Disappointment. Fans of the Two Leads will Most Likely Like it More than Most. But Anyone that Pays the Least Bit Attention to World of Real-Life Conspiracy Theories will Cringe.Note...Don't play a drinking game when the name Jerry is spoken, that would be dangerous. "},{"Title":"Funny Manchurian Candidate parody","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Turn on the silencer on the black helicopter is my favorite line. There are many others. Urban legends, hoaxes, conspiracies all is true, or at least, close to truth (which leads to freedom).Much better than in his own movies, Mel Gibson gives reliability to his character. I liked him very much, as I liked the other male actors. Julia Roberts is not at her best. Script is really funny, a bit too long maybe. Anyway in the end we have no clear explanation about Jerry compulsive need to buy The Catcher in the Rye. They actually trace him through the (hard-to-believe) monitoring of bookshops. If so, they should have chosen a less popular book, since it is read in almost any school!1997 seems very distant from a cell-phone-size point of view ) "},{"Title":"A good conspiracy is an unproveable one.","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I probably should stop thinking about this film too much or I might talk myself into disliking it. There's a lot of disbelief to suspend in this one, the biggest one occurring when Jerry (Mel Gibson) stopped his car on the bridge with Alice (Julia Roberts) along, hopped across the divider, and found an abandoned car up on a jack that looked like it was ready to go just for him when he got there. If you were a gambler in Vegas, what odds would you take on that one? Then there was the whole business at the stable when Jerry began remembering or mis-remembering the circumstances of Alice's father's murder. He started out thinking that he did it, that he might have done it, and then in a moment of clarity, knew that he didn't do it. How was Alice supposed to figure out which version was correct? But she did it - remarkable! I guess what you have to do here is go with the flow of Jerry Fletcher's wild and random musings until the whole back story of Dr.Jonas/Henry Finch (Patrick Stewart) plays out. His diabolical experiments in mind control with Jerry as his prize specimen was a well constructed plot device, as Jerry in turn is followed closely by Lowry's (Cylk Kozart) shadow organization.I imagine there are conspiracy theorists who approach Jerry Fletcher's level of paranoia, and it must be a tough way to live. The film would have raised a whole lot of eyebrows after the fact if one of Jerry's predictions had been the destruction of the World Trade Center. Released four years before 9/11/01, the movie had a couple of clear shots of the Twin Towers during the first half as Jerry advanced many of his astounding theories. "}{"Title":"Who doesn't like a good conspiracy?","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" We always try to look for explanations in the coincidences in our daily lives, trying to find meaning in our little world. But what if one of our crazy theories was right?Jerry Fletcher is a taxi driver who spends his days telling his insane conspiracy theories to his passengers. He sees patterns everywhere and one day finds himself being chased by some shady guys in suits. Apparently he got something right. Mel Gibson does a fine job showing the vulnerabilities of Jerry, and it's pretty fun seeing how he lives his life of paranoia and how much that costs him. No friends, the fear, etc.But the movie also follows Alice, Jerry's platonic love interest, and her determination to find out the truth about her father's murder. Julia Roberts does a great job playing someone who is suddenly thrown in the middle of a crazy man's theory.There are no huge action scenes with big explosions, Richard Donner is contained and try to focus on the tension, which is good. We have the mandatory chasing scenes in which the guy avoids the unrelenting pursuits of the powerful organizations by incredible plans. And we do have some thrills in the form of imminent danger, but the payoff is not worth it in some cases.The story plays with a few twists during the movie, which can be fine for suspense, but it distances the viewer from the characters at times. Who are we following? Who is the protagonist? Jerry or Alice? From time to time, it feels good to see a 90's movie, with its regular people have to go against bad super powerful organizations like 'Enemy of the State', 'Mercury Rising' or 'The Net'. Thinking about it now, there are a lot of movies with this plot. Despite the name that could define the genre, Conspiracy Theory is not the best one there is about the theme, but it does a fine job. It's a little too long, but hey, if you are in the mood for an older (yes 90's movies are old now... I am sad too) interesting movie, filled with phones that look like bricks, you can settle for this one. That is, if you have already seen 'Enemy of the State' first. "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller by Richard Donner","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" CONSPIRACY THEORY, in my opinion, is an excellent thriller by Richard Donner. When Jerry (Mel Gibson) and Alice (Julia Roberts) were in danger or being pursued, I got a little scared. This was because I didn't want to see them get hurt. It was fun watching them outsmart the bad guys, though. If you ask me, Dr. Jonas (Patrick Stewart) was a really slimy fellow. Also, I thought that Alice was a very beautiful woman. To sum this up, the performances were top grade, the direction was flawless, and the casting was perfect. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Mel Gibson or Julia Roberts, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a good time and lots of thrills, so see this movie today. I guarantee you that you'll have a good time, so rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, lock the doors and windows, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Best romance thriller of all time--bar none!","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I say this because in my humble opinion there simply aren't very many great films in the romance/thriller genre ever produced. Perhaps this is because psycho thrillers and romantic themes are almost always mutually exclusive--a highly unlikely combination especially when the romance involves a delusional average Joe who is attempting to romance and court one who is strikingly gorgeous, intelligent and powerful--in other words like trying to mix water with oil. Combining such themes usually doesn't quite gel with a mentally stable viewer, since expecting a moviegoer to live vicariously through the life of one who is frequently experiencing paranoid delusions and is in constant battle with his personal demons and on top of that, trying to vividly imagine how such a person will win over the heart of someone who is way out of his league.So, as unrealistic as this may sound in the real world--Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts make it look all too believable--a difficult feat that not many acting duos could have pulled off convincingly without appearing contrived. The acting range of both actors is a sight to behold. Ultimately, it works because despite everything that is to be desired with regard to Roberts' character Alice--her ability to empathize with Gibson's character Jerry, is in the end, her most desirable trait of all. Sure there are scores of decent thrillers with bits of romance interspersed--yet not very many pure thrillers with romance interwoven throughout the entire fabric of the plot.This film is also quite entertaining because it turns the damsel-in-distress archetype on its head--with Gibson who is supposedly playing the role of the knight-in-shinning armor--yet is in a constant state of distress--while damsel Roberts is the one who comes to his aid during pivotal moments of the film.Without question this is my fave film directed by Richard Donner, whose impressive feature film credits include, but are not limited to Superman, Lethal Weapon quadrilogy, Maverick, Ladyhawke, 16 Blocks, Radio Flyer, Assassins and Scrooged. Only wished there were more romance thrillers on par with this gem. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" First I have to tell you This is one of the most great film ever. But I didn't feel that way at the first watch. The thing is, I saw this film about a 100 times. And I always found new things, hidden things, or just too obvious to spot things in there. I will not start to explain it here, but I'm sure they worked very hard to put together the scenes. Many objects have its own meaning (for example the taxi badge in last scene), and these are not explained in the speeches, you just have to look very carefully. And the rest? The actors made their best. The scenes well developed, the fast and slow scenes have a good rhythmic. The music is perfect for this film. The humor? I found this film funny all the 100 times, so it have to be damn good. And the story? Well, I read the comments here, and I found out, somebody got some familiar ideas. There are many storyline collide in here. But the main story (a mentally injured man try to hold the last bit of his sanity by his love) is great. I understand this is not a technically great film, and there are not raining aliens from every corner, there are no hills of bullets, but you have to feel the pressure of the unknown enemy. We didn't know, how Jerry (Mel Gibson) was applied for the brainwashing program in the first place, but you can feel, it could be you or anyone else. Jerry just a normal guy, and he has no special skills. That makes him so likable. About Alice Sutton (Julia Roberts) plays very nicely. And about the evil, representing by Dr. Jonas (Patrick Stewart), well... The film mostly follow Jerry, and lot of time Alice, and rarely we watch someone else, like as a gunmen of the evil organization, or something like this. But we never see Dr. Jonas, from Dr. Jonas's point of view. We only see him when interact with Jerry or Alice or other character, and from their point of view. The truth is, he never even lie, only dezinform. If you watch the movie many times, it's clear, he never thinks himself, as a bad guy. He got a position, made some success, but sometimes failed and that is unacceptable. So he try to repair his faults. Even, if this mean he have to kill more and more people. Good question who is the real crazy guy in this movie. Therefore, I think Stewart made a great job here. This character is really nicely fit in the bad guy picture, who tortured many person, make them killers. So, if you didn't watched this film yet, do it, at least twice. "},{"Title":"Good (tho violent) action/romance/ teen to adult movie!","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is almost better on the second viewing because you can see the hints of future plot twists. (Start with the helicopter early on...the street repair work...most of the later twists are hinted at but you must look close.) Mel Gibson is the streetwise (tho brain fried) cabbie who has a kinda Man of Le Mancha love from afar for Assistant DA Julia Roberts. Gibson spouts off all sorts of conspiracy theories in a quick montage to various cab passengers....as he drives thru NYC and wonders what the spooks (CIA or the like) are up to.Gibson's character also creates and distributes a tiny Conspiracy Theory newsletter. When four of his FIVE conspiracy magazine subscribers are murdered - Julia Roberts take him seriously. The harmless goofy guy who once saved her life - and who follows her around like a harmless stray dog - is actually on to something. So she starts investigating and yes - the real conspiracy theory villains go after her too! Great villain - some good plot twists - MUSIC tells you what's going on in his head! Tho the government as the villain is a tired, overdone pre 9/11 theme, it's still interesting here. I would give it a higher rating except for the repeat of this worn out theme.It's way too violent for small children. Sound and strobe light effects add to the violence effect.Note It's also interesting to see a man willing to die for a woman, versus merely get her to sleep with him...Chivalry - even NCY cabby style - is not dead. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining little thriller.","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 'Conspiracy Theory', a fast moving little thriller, presents us a Mel Gibson in one of his best '90s roles. Many of you who grew up with Lethal Weapon and Die Hard know there's a healthy dose of comedy injected into the story of most end '80s early '90s films and in that perspective Conspiracy Theory is deliciously old-fashioned in a good way, although it's obviously also the film's biggest weakness. The 'seen-this, done-that' sentiment certainly springs to mind but why change a winning team? Note at this juncture how closely the lead character resembles Lethal Weapon's beloved character 'Riggs'. Conspiracy Theory delivers what it promises, it's an involving thriller with great performances by the lead cast and though it can be accused of a lack of ambition, I see it as an unpretentious no-nonsense film, making us care enough about the character to keep us at the tip of our seat meanwhile keeping the story moving along fast enough for us to overlook some plot holes.Not a genre classic, but I've seen it multiple times and enjoyed it every single time. "},{"Title":"Conspiring for A Very Good Film-Conspiracy Theory ***1/2","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" As much as I dislike Mel Gibson for the repeated bigoted remarks that he has made off the screen, I have to admit that he gave a riveting performance in this film.He portrays a cab driver who is constantly thinking up various conspiracies, and then becomes pursued when one of his conspiracy theories proves to be right.As an attorney,Julia Roberts, who lost her father in a mysterious shooting, becomes involved with Gibson.The film is a good one due to the plot twists and turns. You really don't know who is good and evil in it.Patrick Stewart portrays a man with many hats. You just don't know where he is at until the very end.Roberts comes slowly to believe in what Gibson is saying until it appears that he had killed her father.The ending may be disappointing to many, but was probably necessary due to the clandestine and safety measures for the Roberts part. "},{"Title":"Always in my best 10 !!","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie was incredibly smart, well written, funny and romantic. One of Mel Gibson's best act. Julia Roberts was the best choice for Alice Sutton (I cant imagine somebody else). She was really beautiful in this movie. You cant take your eyes from the movie especially when the ending comes. Well written small details you need the catch. Movie was interestingly underrated, is it a conspiracy? Sometimes I think about that. I do not want to give any spoiler, but this is a must watch movie, you will never regret. "},{"Title":"This Movie is a Trip","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Conspiracy Theory is a tasty blend of a plausible love story mixed with totally outrageous(and funny)suspense thriller elements. Mel Gibson is wonderfully eccentric and sympathetic as Jerry, the hyper-observant, resourceful, New York cabbie who has a very strange past. Jerry sees a malevolent plot under every rock and has made diligent preparations to survive any calamity. He also does pretty well shooting from the hip.Roberts gives just the right nuances to Alice the restrained Justice Department attorney who indulges Jerry's mania, not suspecting that he knows a whole lot about her. Her enlightenment comes in small doses as she discovers that he's not 100% psycho, and that their bonds go deeper than she can imagine. Julia lights up a fire at the end, giving a heart-rending emotional display.This movie is filmed in a claustrophobic, darkly surreal NYC, with constant SWAT Team helicopters hovering about and dropping commandos to the streets. The action scenes are probable, but humorous, like Jerry's wheelchair escape from Dr.Jonas's lair, the spook raid on Jerry's apartment and the Queensboro Bridge escape.The story line is a little murky (what has Holden Caulfield got to do with it?), easier to understand the 2nd time, but in the end it doesn't detract. This film turns out to be more than the sum of its parts, like a light form of Forrest Gump. In the end, enduring, faithful love triumphs over Jonas's Day without Hope. "},{"Title":"It's too good to be true; I can't take my eyes off of you","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Guess who is watching you? Too bad Jerry didn't have a wheelchair for Jonas. Jerry has trouble remembering and yet he doesn't seem to have any trouble at times. Maybe Alice gave him some clear thinking skills. That would be unusual for a man in 'geronimo'. Maybe Jerry has more people on his subscription list now. To bad the movie wasn't made post 9-11. I like his taxi cab chatter. Maybe more people will listen. Why did he lock up his coffee anyway? Hopefully I will read Catcher in the Rye soon. Maybe Jerry rubbed off on me. It was amazing he was always managing ingenious ways for escapes, even some that were by 'accident'. Those black helicopters got annoying after a while. I think Jerry whisked Alice away to another adventure later. "}{"Title":"Hated it the first time....","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It was given to me on tape by my sister in law, who of course bought it because of Gibson and Roberts. The first time I watched it I thought it was one of the worst movies I ever saw. The next time, when I wasn't in such a bad mood, just bored, I watched it again and thought it was great.Roberts was more or less just window dressing, but Gibson was incredible. He took rambling to a another dimension altogether. The wheelchair scene was also amazing!The ending could have been stronger.Wish they'd gotten J.D. Sallinger to play the bookstore clerk. "},{"Title":"Clever and unusual comedy-thriller","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a clever paranoia thriller, from a script by Brian Helgeland (L.A. Confidential, Mystic River). Mel Gibson is alternately hilarious and disturbing as Jerry Fletcher, a confused and paranoid taxi driver in New York who rambles on about government conspiracies about NASA intending to assassinate the President with an earthquake, the new twenty-dollar-bill, and Oliver Stone being the secret spokesperson for George Bush. Julia Roberts holds her own as a woman working at the Justice Department, whom Jerry confides in to tell about conspiracies he's uncovered.Jerry prints the Conspiracy Theory, a newsletter detailing his latest findings. He lives in a squalid downtown apartment that is much like a vault, and purchases The Catcher in the Rye whenever he sees it, although he's never read the book. He keeps his coffee and meals in padlocked metal containers, and has fuzzy memories he cannot seem to conjure up. Until one of his articles in his newsletter catches the attention of Dr. Jonas (Patrick Stewart), who is apparently somehow linked to Jerry's past. Stewart spends most of the film in Jake Gittes mode, after Jerry bites off his nose in his first scene. Dr. Jonas, supposedly a CIA psychiatrist, works along with a cynical FBI agent, and Roberts' boss, Mr. Wilson, in catching Jerry. Jerry can't remember what he did, but he seems determined to protect Roberts' character as best he can.This isn't the greatest movie ever made, but Gibson's skatter-brained performance works in a tragicomedy way, yielding some comic relief, while actually very sad. The scary thing is that there really are people like that, so do they actually know something? "},{"Title":"Mel's 'Little House of Horrors' wheelchair scene deserved Oscar","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Forget conspiracies! There are. 30 minutes in is a hidden gem of a scene where the director pulls out all the stops when Mel gets the third degree interrogation treatment from Patrick Stewart trying to drown him while strapped to a wheelchair while doped up with a mind-bending truth serum.Mel goes right off his head, bites his tormentor, boots him in the bollocks then rolls out into a surreal hysterically funny totally over-the-top 'house of horrors' scene with Mel screaming his head off while crashing down a staircase strapped to the wheelchair.Now all we need is Jamie Leigh Curtis with Mel Gibson pairing up on 'Highway to Hell II' to make everybody's day.  "},{"Title":"This one will be a classic.","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Well, okay, it's one of my favorites. Mel Gibson's character, Jerry, punches right to the heart with me. Not because of the conspiracy stuff, and his general whackiness, but because he is totally devoted to Alice. This is the modern interpretation of the Aurthurian/Celtic knight's tale. It does not matter if the lady knows or not, but he has put himself in her service. Hey guys - aren't there more of you out there to whom this has happened? For me, the last scene, where Jerry watches from afar is a metaphor for those of us who put our hearts and hands in service to our lady. This sounds soooo corny, but the fact is it has happened for thousands of years and will for thousands more. The stories are part of our mythology because they give meaning to the painful experiences of love.   "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has a lot of action, suspense, and most of all, it celebrates the quirky and downright crazy people.  It even has a great romance without sex, which seems to be becoming more and more rare nowadays, especially R ones. This is a must-see for everyone. "},{"Title":"nothing to be suspicious about","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In short Conspiracy Theory is worth two hours of your day, but will not change your life. Having watched the film for the first time today despite its release in 1996, I was at different times of the film moved, intrigued, horrified and excited. Its that type of film,up and down, very difficult to pigeonhole and quite unlike most other films. One second its coolly original in its idea and narrative, the next typical romantic sub-plot (yawn.she'd never have fallen in love with him!and he'd never have survived! ) Part thriller, part action and all suspense, Director Richard Donner unravels his story at a monumental pace, the twists and turns are almost unrelenting and the majority of set-pieces are delivered well without the modern excesses of alternate camera style and hand-held takes- a dark, Kubrickesque wheelchair ride down and a funny hospital escape particular highlights.While it could be argued that this film is dated when compared with other 90s films, it is a case of substance over style with this movie.Yes, the gun fights and clichéd love angle are more Maverick than Seven or Kiss The Girls, and unfortunately Patrick Stewart is as wooden as Schwarznegger in a timber yard (underming the menace of what our governments could be up to)but for what it lacks in modern directing techniques,Conspiracy theory is undoubtedly watchable and entertaining! A factor sometimes forgotten in the psychological thriller/suspense genre (see The Black Dahlia, not a personal favourite) Reasons to see this film would be it unarguable originality (for those who have seen it name similar films that show the plight of the working man against a faceless government?!), the performance of Gibson which reminds us all of his talent in front of the camera (and without an agenda i.e Passion) and the themes of governmental control which are highly relevant in a modern context. Undoubtedly in the UK , the search for the elusive weapons of mass destruction alerted the people to the governments power to manipulate to get what they want.If you like to think about your films, are a fan of Gibson and Roberts (note Gibson ad-libbed much of the script) and enjoy ideas exploring the balance of power, what shady governments could be getting up to , and the issue of who is policing the police, then this film is for you.If you pull your hair out each time a hero manages to kill everyone, outsmart the smartest and still find time to woo the girls I'd suggest that you exercise caution and watch this film with something to bite down on.In conclusion, as a film-fan who enjoys films which grip from start to end I recommend Conspiracy Theory as a good film to watch if you are not expecting a reinvention of the action sequence, a believably evil baddie or undoubtedly one where you can switch off and look at the pretty pictures. I feel it requires thought and deservedly so. "},{"Title":"Reeking Sadness","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Here's a conspiracy theory for you.I agree with all the bad comments about this lukewarm bowl of slimy nothing. The reason this acting/directing/storytelling disaster happened is that art was the last thing important (or at least clear) to it's producers. This is a project, not a movie. Like Reefer Madness in fifties (forties?), the now-hilarious-to-watch propaganda on dangers of marijuana, from McCarthy times and circles, this film is meant to be a public lesson, not art or entertainment ; or better yet, a paid advertisement ; ordered and paid for, obviously, by the same people who ordered Reefer Madness to be made. The whole point of this movie is to show that so-called conspiracy theorists are (at best, benign) neurotic fools, who even if occasionally turn out to be right, it's because of sheer probability laws; or, as on Balkan they say, even a blind chicken sometimes picks a corn. Since this image is already vaguely present in public opinion, this is supposed to enhance it in public eye in times of crisis, when people who ask awkward questions need to be dealt in every possible way; and ad-hominem attacks and public humiliation and resent always work best with masses. If you can do it even preventively, all the better! When stakes are high, big names are employed and paid; but to judge how they actually performed or how well the movie was directed is far beyond the scope of the closed minds that have the last word on it. Thence invariably come results like this, which serve as as a tea-time fun for Sunday afternoons of sensible people when enough time passes that you can look at it as quirky vintage and laugh, and the period when it just made you vomit has safely passed.Edutainment at it's very worst. Scratching the ugly bottom of corny political propaganda. Be sure to watch it! - in 20-30 years. Till then, avoid desperately. PARENTAL GUIDANCE If you find your child watching this video, shoot it. The video.And by the way, if one educates themselves outside the cinema theater and TV box, and pays attention to life, one eventually finds out that most of the so-called conspiracy theorists are in fact journalists, often some of best among them, and not crazy taxi-drivers. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A story about a man who has the answer to something so important but is unable to let it out is brilliant. Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts make a great team. They work so well together. Mel Gibson as Jerry Fletcher is a great idea because Mel Gibson is able to work in many different parts. He is able to deliver a performance that makes you feel how the person he is acting is feeling. In this particular film, he plays a man who is not all right in the head and he protrays it so great that he makes the film as good as it is. Mel Gibson is the reason of this film. Julia Roberts was fantastic in this film as well. I was able to feel the tension between Mel and Julia throughout the whole movie because of how well they acted in this movie. The plot of this movie was great too. Not a lot of people enjoy watching this movie but I really liked this movie. It had everything in it. Suspense, comedy, romance and thrill. It was a great movie and I recommend it to all viewers who like GREAT movies.  "},{"Title":"One of the best endings in movies.","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Now, I am not suggesting that the rest of the movie is any less. In fact, I think that this is one of the best and certainly one of Mel Gibson's best. Casting for this movie was spot on with Mel as not quite the hero, Julia as a strong, determined woman, and Patrick Stewart in one of his best roles outside Star Trek. The supporting cast was also tight and well suited to their parts. This is a thriller in which you never really know what is going on till the emotionally satisfying end. The combination of the dialog, emotion, and Frankie Valli music make this a movie I would watch just to see the last ten minutes.  Unfortunately, like most movies on broadcast TV, this well crafted end is absolutely destroyed by the combination of commercials and previews for other shows that walk all over the dialog and music (very Disappointing).  "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson was a huge disappointment!","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Well my expections were kinda high but the ressult was really a bit disappointing. Mel Gibson wasted his potential if you ask me and sometimes he terribly overacted at some points. I love the opening scene in the cab when he talks, talks talks talks and talks, that´s kind funny, but there are scenes he acts like a moron and totally annoyed me. I am glad Patrick Stewart kind of saved the movie with a really good and creepy performance as villian. He has the right, face, charisma and voice for the part he played. I was also happily surprised that `golden' Julia didn´t annoy me like she often does, she was quit decent in her role, yeah also at some points a bit overacting, but at least she was quit appealing and sometimes even believable. I liked the story, it involves a lot of great twists and a few little surprises. Gibson plays Jerry Fletcher a man who prophecies a lot of consipiracies but nobody really believes him and thinks he is just another idiot who tries to get some attention. but they have to discover that there is much more behind his theories. Well a great story with a lot of potential but the work out was a bit disappointed, mostly because of the mentioned overacting. Donner give a decent job, not too much and not too less action, just the right amount of it so that there is still space for kind of exciting story. The ending ( the very last scenes ) is a bit very kitschy but oh well there are scenes between I really really loved. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Great idea lost in a love mush.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 130min.Gibson shines as the not quite sane New York cabbie, Roberts is less convincing and more often than not a distraction to the story. For $50 million this less would have been a much better movie.7/10 well worth watching. "},{"Title":"A fun exciting movie with a nice surprise ending just short of Sixth Sense and Usual Suspects endings.","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A fun exciting movie with a nice surprise ending just short of Sixth Sense and Usual Suspects endings.BackgroundI am a 24 year old male engineering and computer science student living in SC. I do have a large humanities background.OverviewI have seen this movie twice now. The first time was at the movies and it was one of the best movies I have ever seen. The second time was on HBO and I don't know if it was because I have already seen it, or if this is a movie that needs the big screen to show it off. It is not as amazing as Titanic, or Saving Private Ryan or anything but the interrogation scenes are just hysterical at the theater and are just hilarious at home.Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts were great together. I even enjoyed watching the relationship develop as they began to trust each other. I think the casting of the villain was great too, even though I will always think of him as Captain Picard from Star Trek.The action-adventure elements were outstanding. I loved the interrogation and the apartment scenes. The hospital escape episode is really good also. You will love watching Mel outsmart the spooks time and time again...I enjoyed seeing who was really who, and learning what was really going on. It is not the best movie as far as this goes but it was still good.Thanks. "},{"Title":"An Oscar-worthy performance from Mel Gibson&#133;","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  &#133;is not to be found in this film. Those Lethal Weapon movies have blunted Gibson's acting, turning him into a real scene chewer. Conspiracy Theory is two bloated hours of paranoia with a lackluster plot payoff. As for the ending; AWFUL for several different reasons1) All of a sudden Alice (Julia Roberts) is in love with Jerry (Mel Gibson)? Where did THAT come from?  Plot contrivance, anyone?  The guy is a paranoid schizophrenic and she is an attorney who has been scornful of and disturbed by his Conspiracy Theories for most of the movie, and she is suddenly in love with him?!   Must be because Jerry looks like Mel Gibson&#133;2) (Plot points revealed here, so those of you who haven't seen the movie, do not read further.)  We were made to think, briefly, that Gibson's character had died. And it would have been a better movie if he had. But nooooooo!  We can't have our star play a character who *dies*!!  Or have our actress mournful while the credits roll!  Much better to have that hack ending where we see Gibson alive (and apparently cured of his mental illnesses) while he watches the joyful, lovely Roberts embracing life.  And there she was, only marginally surprised that he was alive after all.  Can you HEAR my eyes rolling?This lumbering mass of celluloid is only for diehard fans of Gibson and Roberts. All others don't bother.  "},{"Title":"Suspenseful yet cool","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  this film is very intence and suspenseful.  But I think this was very good. This is just a great movie.   "},{"Title":"The Conspiracy Behind Crappy Richard Donner Movies","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I kept watching Richard Donner's Conspiracy Theory, praying, pleading to the movie gods that more than once (The Omen) in his overlong career, Donner would create a film that wouldn't collapse under the weight of hysteria and broken promises.There are no gods.Once again, an interesting premise, this time, an ordinary man who suffers from paranoiac delusions of rampant conspiracies (and the hidden causes of his illness), gets lost in the inevitable, the assumption that you, the viewer, will become so invested in the characters and story, that you will forgive (or worse, that you won't notice) the massive incoherence, the ridiculous plot twists and devices, the glaring inattention to logic and physics and chemistry and human physiology.Conspiracy consumers, the great dunderheaded doofi who suck up plots to kill presidents, to keep us from knowing about aliens, and (because of a criminal lack of economic education in this country), to assume gas prices go up and down at the flick of a corporate/government switch will love this sort of brainless trash. I don't buy conspiracies--for the most part--because humans are just too transparent and market forces are too predictable.Wouldn't it have been more interesting if Conspiracy Theory had been about a truly delusional paranoiac who was saved by love? Wait a second--I just described A Beautiful Mind! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable waste of time.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  It was the most nonsensical rubbish I'd seen for a long time.  Mel Gibson must welcome pot-boilers like this, demeaning though they may be.  How can Julia Roberts ever be thought of as a good actress - she only seems to play one role, herself.  And how could any studio possibly contemplate paying her more than $50 per hour (let's be generous), let alone the astronomical numbers I see in the papers. "},{"Title":"True rarity a good Hollywood thriller","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  What do you get when you mix a good script, Richard Donner, Mel Gibson, Julia Roberts, Patrick Stewart and a classic song called Can´t Take My Eyes Off You? You´ll get a topnotch thriller called Conspiracy Theory. I´ve watched it a few times and I actually just bought it on DVD. Most of the action thrillers that come out of Hollywood are pure crap, but every now and then someone writes a good movie and finds someone else to bring it to the big screen.I have nothing bad to say about Conspiracy Theory, it might be bit long but it´s not a big deal. This is just one of those movies in which everything clicks. It might not have been a major box office success, but it´s definitely worth checking out. "},{"Title":"It made me laugh. It made me cry.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The funnest scene in this film was at the end when Julia Roberts is riding her horse and jumping  over logs  with the wind blowing in her care-free hair. Our hero Mel watches her from the side with a self-adulating smile that smugly says Yep. I've finally been involved in another bad film. But what the heh! I got paid so I can go off and make my own films for my own film company ICON pictures. At least I have the integrity to not make Lethal Weapon 4. Unless they paid me for that one too! This film also made me cry. I cried because I was late for another film I wanted to see and had to settle for this one. FREEEEEDOOOOMMMMM "},{"Title":"Mel off form","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A pretty awful film to say the least although it starts off okay but as it progresses gets more stupid and ridiculous. Mel plays a cab driver (!) with a conspiracy theory for nearly every event that has taken place in history. Then he finds out that one of his theories was correct and he is being chased all around the city by some torturous psychopathic thugs from his past. Patrick Stewart turns up in a 'what is this bit all about' role as the chief of the baddies while I am sure the only reason Julia Roberts is around is to try to stop the male audience from walking out halfway through in the hope that they may get a glimpse of flesh! A dreadful climax basically sums up the whole mishmash of a script, but remember what ever you do, take note of the warnings on the box and be careful with those dangerous STROBE LIGHTING SCENES which last for all of 40 seconds, the best 40 seconds of the whole 2 hours 10 as at least you are aware that the television is on! "},{"Title":"I registered just to pan this film!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The plot, acting and general tone of this film is so poor, I had to register just to warn you about it. The story goes nowhere and takes all day getting there! The acting from Julia Roberts is laughable, in fact it's the only thing comedic about this film. Stay away, the blank tv screen is more entertaining than this film! "}{"Title":"Unadalterated Balderdash","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This film has the subtlety of an elephant cutting its toe-nails, the delicacy of a giraffe playing basketball, or even the mindlessness of chimpanzees playing hockey.I cannot for the life of me explain why anyone within (or without) Holywood should go to all the trouble of signing up a couple of superstars so as to waste umpteen metres of celluloid on such a heap of trivial nonsense, considering the quality of anything which might remotely be called honest.Equally unexplainable is how in a country (Spain) more or less considered civilised the main national network should screen it on a Sunday night and call it the film of the week.Here we have one of the best (= worst) examples of Hollywood brainwashing makes millions of dollars shamelessly with what at very most can be called unadalterated balderdash. "},{"Title":"The Mel And Jerry Conspiracy","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Mel Gibson plays Jerry Fletcher, a neurotic, goof ball NYC cab driver, convinced that powerful people are out to get the little guys like him. The problem here is that there is nothing remotely appealing about Jerry. His sputtering, incomplete sentences; his groans; his mumbling; and his exaggerated facial expressions are all extremely irritating. Why should we root for this guy? Further, we are supposed to believe that VIP stealth agents are in hot pursuit of this loser? Not a chance. It is a preposterous concept, and it does not work.Mel Gibson magnifies the problem by overacting the role. The film's first half is consumed with Gibson and his quirky, unlikable character. The film's second half is better because there is more of a story. But the story arrives too late. All I can think about by this time is how much I detest Jerry Fletcher.That's the main problem with Conspiracy Theory. But there are other problems. The characters are all stereotypes ... shallow, and lacking any depth or texture. The second half plot is semi-cartoonish. Sound effects, like honking horns, screeching tires, explosions, two-way radio calls, and gun shots are annoyingly loud. The background music is both annoying and manipulative. And, the film is a put-down of conspiracy theories. The message don't trust conspiracy theorists; they are all paranoid, mentally unbalanced kooks.Mel Gibson was really good in The Road Warrior. What a difference sixteen years makes in the career of an actor. As to the film's message ... if you believe everything you see and hear on mainstream TV news, you probably will like the implied anti-conspiracy theme of Conspiracy Theory. I don't, and I didn't. "},{"Title":"Watch That Rabbit","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"24 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When you consider that Mel Gibson, the chip himself, and Julia Roberts, another classically overrated Hollywood actor, star in this movie, you have to be very wary. They both regularly produce very average movies with very average performances. This was one reason why I was a little surprised by this movie. I quite enjoyed the idea as I think most people do of a conspiracy theory, no matter how far fetched it may be.Mel is a very capable actor, just a bitter individual who lets his emotions take control of the truth. This was one of the few recent movies he's been associated with where he has remained fairly neutral. Julia Roberts was also performing at the higher end of her acting capabilities, and because of this was not a distraction of disappointment which is so commonly a feature of her performances.It's nothing to get excited about, but easy viewing for a quiet night in. "},{"Title":"Another one of those movies that....","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Another Julia Roberts vehicle that ends wrong from the beginning.  Julia Roberts plays Julia Roberts.  Mel Gibson does about the same.  The only actor in the movie is Patrick Stewart (Star Trek The Next Generation, Captain Jean-Luc Picard) and he's the bad guy - wonderful.  It would have been more entertaining and more worth the time to watch Reruns of Star Trek, The Next Generation. "},{"Title":"A bit here a bit there","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This film was a sort of WHAT, HOW, WHY movie, there was nothing different in it at all, and i think if it was not for the lead cast, it would have gone strait to video, Mel Gibson is ok, but i feel he could'nt really get his character right, there was the little boy lost look, then there was the action man hero look, to be blunt his character it seemed did not have the ability or intelligence to know how to make cup of coffee, but knew how to save the world, from evil baddies and be able to free himself from any danger that came his way, (James Bond comes to mind) As for julia Roberts, being one of my favorite actresses can still get a little nudge some of her acting skills were missing, and you could see her reactions coming before she did them, when she got into the car and screamed because Mel Gibson was in the back seemed like it was preprogrammed and looked like she had done the scene about 50 times to get it right. I think the 2 main actors were completely wasted in this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best Movie out there!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my favorite Mel Gibson movie, he's a brilliant actor! The movie itself was phenomenal, i loved every minute of it! This is one of those movies you have to watch every time it's on. Julia Roberts was great, and i believe they did a pretty good job building chemistry between them, considering the crazy situation. Well i love this movie and give it two thumbs up and highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"It's in my top 10","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I think this film reveals Mel Gibson's real acting skills, before seeing this film I didn't care much for this actor. He is perect for his role as the paranoic man who sees conspiracies everywhere, he really convinced me, but I don't think that Julia Roberts played her part well, it just doesn't fit her. I consider it as a classic and I see it's very underrated, but I place it no.5 on my top 10 list.Rating 9/10.  "},{"Title":"No, Jerry, you don't love me!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"   This action flick is too cool for words. It's way better than the last action movie Julia did, The Pelican Brief. Julia Roberts is a goddess. She does astonishing in this film. She almost overacts Mel Gibson in it. Not that he wasn't terrific, too. Patrick Stewart really isn't that great as a villain. He's better in X-Men. The action is vibrant. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"it's an awsome movie  GO SEE IT NOW!!!!!!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  from the great plot to the great cast this movie is one of my favorites ever.  it's thriller outside and outstanding plot inside give this movie the perfect outfit to let u love it. because of this movie im a fan of mel gibson. if u already r a fan of gibson then u must of already seen it but if u havent this movie is great. dispite the fact that julia had just a tad bit more makeup then needed this movie is still great. take my opionion for what u think it's worth but im not crazy GO SEE THE MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Cold as ice hot as fire, mixed? NO WAY!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  My motto is every movie deserves the benefit of a doubt. This motto came well to place when i got dragged to see this movie with a couple of friends i didn´t think much about it, sure Julia Roberts looks good, but until i saw this movie i wasn´t all that sold on her acting capabilities, And even more sceptic was i when i heard that Mel Gibson was in it, putting a nonacting actress together with an overacting actor, can anyone show me a movie where that worked? However, the benefit of a doubt said to me that i should watch it and so i did, was i surprised? YES! It almost felt like Julia had taken some of Mel´s Energy in acting, making Julia just a little hotter and Mel just a little cooler, really what both of them needed... And for once it felt like this was a part that Mel really could live in to with his still high energy, And Julia still not totally defrosted made a perfect lawyer! a really good movie acting wise and even better when it comes to the plot outline, even though some things is a liiiiitle far out there... A certain Da, da (Da, da = watch it and No, no = well you can count it out yourself!) "}{"Title":"gets a bit tiresome","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Gibson is a paranoid N.Y.C. cab driver who dedicates his life to forming conspiracies about the world around him. He's 'friends' with a Justice Department worker (Roberts) who thinks he's out of his mind but finds ways to empathize with his erratic behavior. One day he publishes a conspiracy theory that attracts a lot of attention from some shady government agents, and endangers his life as well as hers. Well-crafted story holds your attention with its intriguing setup and convincing performances from its two stars, especially Gibson who's right on target, but the film runs out of steam after a while and is never fully fleshed out. **½ "},{"Title":"A top notch film with two of the biggest actors in Hollywood","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Conspiracy Theory is a funny, fast paced film telling the story of a man who sees conspiracies everywhere.  Then one day, he finds out he may not be as crazy as they think he is. *Mel Gibson gets 2 thumbs up in the role as Jerry Fletcher.  *Julia Roberts and Patrick Stewert both get thumbs up for their roles as attorney and bad guy respectively.  *The surprise of the film is Cylk Cozart as Agent Lowry, an FBI agent who attempts to put the dots together.  Also, the musical score is excellent.  "},{"Title":"Big stars, but dosen't deserve to many","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't care for this thriller to much.  You would think with the combo of Mel Gibson & Julia Roberts they would go for the sure fire winner, like a romantic comedy or something (as much as I have those kind of movies) but this movie isn't that big of a deal.  Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Jerry Fletcher has something in common with Holden Caldfield but even he's not sure what.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Mel Gibson as Jerry Fletcher, New York Cab Driver and Conspiracy Theory fanatic is at his wacko best.  And you know what they say, Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean their not after you!  The question is can he convince Julia Roberts as Alice Sutton, Justice Department Attorney, that they really are after them before its too late.  Well Mel's great in this and the action doesn't stop. And of course Julia can do no wrong. I love 90% of this flick but but when the Jackbooted Thugs show up it seems like something a bunch of Jr Executives dreamed up because they thought they would capture the 20 -25 male demographic.  So I just ignore that and basque in the rest of the film. Its in my personal film library - watch it! "},{"Title":"My favorite two actors in a great movie","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Even though this movie is a little slow and confusing, it has a great idea and works well.   Your just too good to be true speaks for the movie. Julia Roberts plays her role just the way any talented actor would play it and Mel Gibson is just as good and he is hot.  You should watch the movie for pure enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Fiction is stranger than fact...and vis a vis","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Forgive my summary but this is an unusual film that makes about as much sense as a sentence like Fiction is stranger than fact and vis a vis. This film is romantic, funny, scary and suspensful. Roberts is as good as ever but she's not as good as the two leading stars who I'll come back to along with that thing about fiction is stranger than fact...Most people who normally play the good guys are in fact better at being villians. The opposite might also be true. What if Malcolm McDowell was a good guy... Anyway Patrick Stewart, like Nicholas Cage before him (see my review of Face/Off) before him, proves it. I don't think Patrick Stewart has ever shown emotion in anything but his eyes before and this makes him look exactly right for this part a cold and calculating man. We still haven't heard the best bit...Here is the evidence for the fact I mention above about fiction being stranger than fact Mel Gibson actualy acts in this film. I have only seen him in action or comedy movies for which, lets face it, you don't need to act but here Mel Gibson is seen actualy performing. Anything I say about his strange, funny, likeable character will be pale compared to watching this. One of the best Gibson's best movies. Maybe only the Mad Max trilogy could beat it. 10 out of 10    "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Why? For many reasons.  This is what entertainment is all about.  Mel Gibson once again showing his exceptional diversity and skill as an actor.  Julia Roberts.......just being Julia Roberts and obviously enjoying herself as much as we enjoy watching her.  Patrick Stewart's commanding, yet sinister presence on screen.This movie (possible spoiler!), often lighthearted and frequently twisting and turning, doesn't demand that you take it too seriously, but still cleverly shows that things, people, places aren't always what they seem and with a little digging, we might sometimes be surprised what we might find about them, and about motives.A rousing and perfect mood-setting soundtrack round off this thoroughly entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Gibson & Roberts makes it watchable","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  1st watched 3/15/1998 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Richard Donner) Convoluted plot but just watching Gibson & Roberts work with the characters innermost feelings and bring them to the surface makes this movie watchable. Maybe they'll appear together again in a better movie.  "},{"Title":"My number 143 movie ( contains story )","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Conspiracy Theory is my number 143 movie. it is a good chase between the CIA and Jerry Fletcher ( mel gibson ). Compared to the Fugitive, it cannot stand up to it. The story  Is taxi-driver Jerry Fletcher ( Mel Gíbson ) crazy ? He publishes his conspiratorial theories ( the musicians from Grateful Dead are british spies / the CIA wants to kill the US - president ) in his magazine Conspiracy Theory. All his love goes to Alice Sutton ( Julia Roberts ) that he has rescued a few years ago when she was threatened by thieves. The attractive attorney tolerates Jerry Fletcher, although he is a pain in the neck. But when four of the five subscribers of Jerry´s magazine have been murdered, and when someone tires to kill Jerry and Alice, she starts being interested in his theories...The movie is quite original and well-made. Mel Gibson is good in playing serious roles. All in all, I rated this movie 8/10 and recommend it to fans of The Fugitive, although Conspiracy Theory does never come up to it. If you have any questions, feel free to ask them. "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The only reason I rented this movie, is that I saw Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts on the cover. I love both actors, so it must be a good movie I thought. I was right, although I've seen much better from both actors. Mel's paranoia, was sometimes just annoying and the love between Julia and Mel wasn't that greatly filmed. The story is good, because it makes people use their imagination.What was really irritating is that Patrick Steward played the bad guy and I only know him from Star Trek, so I kept seeing him in that role. It's a pity, but overall it was a nice movie to watch.my rate 7 "}{"Title":"This has to be my all time favourite flick","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Why do I adore this movie?  Well... I can cop out and just say MEL GIBSON AND PATRICK STEWART! HELLO!  But that doesn't cut it.  Conspiracy Theory has some of the most colourful dialogue, music and characters I've seen in a long time.  Mr. Gibson does the 'lunatic' thing very well -- and brings that role to perfection, making you love yet distrust him.  Julia Roberts, whom I believe to be most amazing, is unbelievably great in this movie, and made me (the all time stick in the mud), tear up and cry a couple of times during the movie.  Patrick Stewart (rrreeoowrr -- sexy!) is devious, and as usual, a theatrical genius.  The movie would not have done well at all with any other cast.  The story is brilliant, fun, sad and different, which is nice in an era where we all seem to be getting the same fecal matter wrapped up in different packages more often than not (i.e. Titanic).  Anyway,  I love this movie.  I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"gibson reigns but the story is a bit banal","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  if it weren't for Mel, i would be afraid to even rate this movie. well, maybe it's because i've never been much of a Roberts' fan but no one could argue that the storytelling is weak as well. i've got no objections to the beginning and the plot itself, but i do mind the way the story develops as the audience gets in on the information. as soon as we get to learn some truth the moment is gone and lost forever. i don't buy the whole story and was in fact left cold. "},{"Title":"How can you not see this movie?","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This was the most amazing movie I have ever seen. Mel Gibson gives a star stunning appearance as Jerry Fletcher. Even if you aren't a Mel Gibson fan (But who isn't?) You have got to love this movie. The plot twists right along with Jerry's mind changing experience. The ending will make you cry with despair and then joy. GO SEE IT!! "},{"Title":"enjoyable thriller with hitchcockian elements","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Has anyone observed the Hitchcock-like touches. The opening credits wrapping around the taxi cab position Gibson within a conspiracy of the film-maker's choosing. Reminiscent of the North by Northwest credit sequence, they seem clearly modelled on Saul Bass' designs. Gibson/Fletcher is a man pursued in the mould of Richard Hannay in The Thirty-Nine Steps or Roger Thornhill in North by Northwest. Also, like Hitchcock, there are some set-piece scenes the wheelchair interrogation; the getaway on the bus. Finally, Donner follows Hitchcock in adopting the theme of the good law/bad law. In North by Northwest this is represented in the characters played by Leo G Carroll and James Mason; in Conspiracy Theory it is the CIA/FBI and Patrick Stewart/Dr Jonas. The point is that both are to be distrusted. The photography in Conspiracy Theory works in the same way as in  a David Fincher film (Seven, Fight Club), presenting an exterior universe which reflects the inner psychological state of the hero. The film ultimately lacks sufficient wit to sustain the narrative's general lack of plausibility. However, there is much to commend and by the final reel Julia Roberts' smile has been restored. "},{"Title":"If you hated it, I agree. If you loved it I agree more.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This was a terrific movie waiting to happen. It just keeps waiting. I cannot put a pin on what went wrong along the way. Very good characters, funny dialogue, great acting, lots of action... The problem is probably how the story unfolds. Maybe the script was re-written once too often, or maybe it needed more re-writing. Nevertheless, the ingredients are great. You can love this movie for that. This movie had a great deal going for it, which was not quite realized. You can hate this movie for that.  "},{"Title":"Great...but easy to misunderstand...","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Tongue in Cheek.  Remember that phrase, the first time you watch this movie.  Many harken to Donner's (the director's) other efforts with star Mel Gibson.  You must avoid doing this, at all costs.  The Lethal Weapon movies are of the buddy movie genre, where action is combined with humor. In THIS movie, the approach is decidedly different.  This is truly a tongue in cheek movie and, as others have noted, it also contains a rather sly love story.  I will negatively comment on two aspects of the movie. First, it is over-long.  Ten minutes (possibly more) could have been cut, and the movie's sometimes erratic pace could have been smoothed out.  Oh, and the very final scene is a bit too hokey for my tastes.  But if you remember tongue in cheek and go with that, the movie works very, very well.  In that regard, Gibson was not only a good choice for the main character, but perhaps even a NECESSARY choice.  Gibson is an actor, who within certain genres, he's outstanding.  This genre is one of them. Roberts is, for the most part, good. In fact, the final twenty minutes or so sees her turning her performance into something very vital and solid. Stewart, I believe, actually does his role credit by playing an almost banal bad-guy.  And over the top type of bad-guy would have been jarring and unbelievable in this otherwise strains the credulity genre.  In other words, this type of movie is, admittedly, already taxing to the viewer.  Had Stewart played it less straight, it would have made the believability even more difficult.In the end, I think Donner and cast came up with a unique, fun, thoroughly entertaining genre film.  Simply remember tongue in cheek. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts conspires to steal my heart","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This film really throws the plot twists at you, but at just the right pace to assimilate them. Mel Gibson is going through that phase where he needs to demonstrate his acting range, and he really chews the scenery here. It's been a while since I've seen Julia Roberts, and I had forgotten how she lights up the screen. She is one of those women who are fairly pretty in, say, a still photo, but on a movie screen, or presumably, in person, absolutely put normal women to shame. I wonder how much of this film THEY edited out? "},{"Title":"All assassins and serial killers have three names.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  OK, I haven't liked a Mel Gibson movie since the first Mad Max.  This one finally gives him a role that fits him.  Mel really is a way out conspiracy nut and believes some of the stuff in here.  This insane taxi driver's conspiracy theories make Oliver Stone look like an apologist working for the Shadow Government.  This movie is like the X-files without aliens, complete with those evil black helicopters and unmarked SUVs.  And the casting is perfect - Mad Max Gibson, Pretty Woman Roberts investigator, and evil Captain Stewart.Not something I'd have gone to the movies for, but I watched it twice in a row on cable during the same week. "},{"Title":"Too boring","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  It starts as a good and interesting movie. As minutes go by, you see that nothing is going to change. The movie becomes boring and you only expect it to end. It's a surprise that the Gibson-Donner formula didn't produce a movie the public would expect. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  i like very much about this movie. i watch it alone at home which i rent the tape from the video tape store. it's a great movie. i can't say more because there is nothing to say not because i'm not good in making critics but it so perfect movie.oops before i forget the character in the film was played perfectly esp. Mel Gibson and Julia Robert.well it's a great movie and everybody should watch it. thanks, peace... "}{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is great. I think that Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts did an excellent and amazing job on this movie. I love how it's full of action scenes and at times has some love scenes! I love this movie because it's great!!!  "},{"Title":"A very fascinating and original movie...","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a definite thriller for all spectators.  In the very beginning the plot and how it will develop is unclear, but as the story unfolds, so does the viewer's understanding.  I  believe that this is what holds the interest.  You can never solve the problem before the movie is over, and when you finally do see the solution, you realize that you could not have done any better! "},{"Title":"Only the New World Order could put out this dullness.","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I simply can't buy Mel Gibson as a crazy taxi driver.  Then again, I can't buy Julia Roberts as a prosecutor (or whatever she is).  I might have bought Patrick Stewart as a diabolical madman, but he's only on screen for 5 minutes.  This movie just doesn't work.  This is truly a Mass Appeal movie.  An interesting idea for a cool movie is taken, popular actors are shoehorned into the parts, all complexity is removed or flattened so that Average Movie Goer won't be confused or disturbed.  What you have left is Just Another Thriller.  Don't bother with this one.  Hitchcock would have made a fantastic film with this material, McNaughton just makes a movie. "},{"Title":"Confusing...","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I agree with Ebert on this one. The script does seem confused, as if it has been re-written. The beginning of the film has nothing to do with what happens after wards. The end result is a mix up where none of the ends meet, making the screenplay totally ridiculous and thoroughly unbelievable. Is Jerry really the insecure and paranoid conspiracy freak like in the beginning of the movie or a highly trained special agent/murderer of the CIA? He can't be both. This paradox is present throughout the film and I think it also confused Gibson because it seems he doesn't really know which way to take the character himself.All in all, nothing special, a less than average quality Hollywood production. "},{"Title":"Too bad about Mel","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had all the elements for a first-rate action thriller, except that Mel Gibson never for one moment took his lead role seriously -- and neither did his makeup artist. In every scene he keeps glancing at the viewer out of the corner of his eye, winking, See, I'm not *really* crazy Jerry, I'm good ole Mel Gibson, big-time star, I never sweat, I never forget to shave, and I *always* look great. Too bad, since Julia Roberts does hold up her end just fine. I don't know whether to blame Gibson or the director. Probably both. Still worth watching, if you've got nothing better to do. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Two stories is one story too much","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Jerry Fletcher is the Guardian Angel of Alice Sutton. Why? Because he was brainwashed by Dr. Jonas to kill her father, failed, and full of remorse promised her father to take care of her as Mr. Sutton gets shot by a replacement killer. Dr. Jonas ever since has tried to find Jerry, because he wants to know who else knows about the brainwash programme.Now, this basic story that the viewer gets to know in the end is fine with me. But instead of beeing a true and faithful Guardian Angel, Jerry endangers Alice´s life as he tells her about his relevations about conspiracies taking place either in his mind or in the real world, the viewer is to judge. These conspiracies have NOTHING AT ALL to do with the basic story. Nevertheless the readers of his conspiracy newspapers all get killed, all but Dr. Jonas. Why the heck does Jonas know Jerry is a paranoiac and publishes this newspaper? Why do the readers get killed. Apparantly because Jerry is right. But who kills them? Jonas? No, he only is interested in his brainwash programme. As you see, the basic story does not explain at all Jerry´s paranoia and conspiracy theories. It exists only to bring Jerry and Alice together. But, would a real Guardian Angel do something like that? You be the judge. I say illogical... "},{"Title":"Richard Belzer's favorite film","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I read a book recently by comedian/actor Richard Belzer about conspiracies, and after seeing this film, I'd say he would enjoy this as much as anything.  But for me (and others I'd say), it is entertaining. Mel Gibson brings a very well done performance in another combo with director Richard Donner about a taxi-driver who may be half crazy, but knows his facts, and that he is now a target, along with a woman (Julia Roberts).  Maybe not the greatest script ever (some lulls), but still a must see, mainly for fans of the director and/or stars.  A-  "},{"Title":"Lacking in coherence and tight direction","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The film was from beginning to end unsure of its approach, with no coherent message to convey.  At times it tried to be intelligent comment on the limits of free speech (nicely illustrated by the use of the quintessential 'shout fire in a crowded cinema' argument) but moments like these were few and far between, subsumed in the mass of usual, mindless explosions.  The reference to Oliver Stone as being involved in a conspiracy as a 'disinformation' propagant raised a wry smile however, being the man behind one of the biggest conspiracy theories of them all.What had some promise as a possible comment on mass-media fuelled paranoia and hysteria, counterpointed by the revelation that the conspiracy was actually rooted in truth, in fact degenerated into a confused and convoluted film.  This was largely due to loose direction, but also due to a cut-and-paste script and plot, which might have had substance to begin with but appeared to be the victim of rewrites and amendments to secure the necessary Hollywood happy ending. "},{"Title":"Sucked","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was absolutely terrible. All the actors were awful.  One of the worst films ever.  My score is a 1 out of 10.  The plot was wacky and uninteresting.  The story was stupid and badly planned.  The reason behind the movie was ill-logical and unbelievable. "},{"Title":"Too many inconsistencies.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Basically a formulaic, uneven, overlong conspiracy thriller, despite the occasional quirkiness and some truly intriguing plot twists. Too many flaws and inconsistencies prevent it from being particularly entertaining; some of Gibson's actions are so far-fetched that we can't take this very seriously as a thriller - and it's never clear if we are supposed to or not. Gibson is very good in a difficult, messily written role, and Patrick Stewart gives a calmly effective performance as the villain; on the other hand, Julia Roberts could hardly be more bland - as a result, very little chemistry between her and Gibson is created.   (**1/2) "}{"Title":"Life's too short... to watch this film!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Noisy, silly, absurd, and not in the least bit funny, this felt like one of the lengthiest films I have seen in a long time!  Julia Roberts turns in a wooden performance of an implausible character, while Mel Gibson is just plain irritating.  It MIGHT improve with a second viewing - but then again Life's Too Short..... "},{"Title":"Star Trek Captains Gone Wild!","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Well, Picard doesn't exactly go topless but he was a few blowtorches short of a crème brulee in Richard Donner's Conspiracy Theory (1997).This is vapid cinema at its most Donneresque &#150; you know the pointless violence, unexciting thriller situations and dialogue that make six-year-olds grimace. Here we have a conspiracy theorist (Mel Gibson) that&#133;ohmigawd, is actually involved IN a conspiracy theory! He is inexplicably tracking a member of the Justice Department (Julia Roberts) for seemingly prurient reasons (who can blame him?). After some time did I get the understanding that these two are connected by an event of both their pasts&#133;however, by the time I reached this epiphany (?) I was so stultified by the boringly kinetic action that I really couldn't care less. (Just LET the CIA off 'em, 'kay?) How utterly disappointing that this film doesn't live up to its title &#150; nowhere do we truly get a grasp of the paranoia of a plausible conspiracy theory. Instead, all we have is Gibson spouting ridiculously far-fetched stories of collusion and ignobility. The façade of a conspiracy theory is all that is used as a VEHICLE for the interminable action. Sleep is the new on-the-edge-of-your-seat in somewhat recent action films. "},{"Title":"No...","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I usually like Mel Gibson but his acting in this movie is definitely not flawless. But the biggest mistake is not the acting but the script. Simply horrible. The story didn't seem believable to me. Silly dialog and many ridiculous scenes. Corny. Really bad and weak intro. Over-sentimental, especially the ending. Predictable. Yet another modern Hollywood picture. There are many better movies on the similar concept.2/10 "},{"Title":"'Conspiracy Theory' is another near miss for Richard Donner, but it's worth cracking even so, all thanks to Gibson and Roberts...","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Conspiracy Theory Jerry Fletcher (Mel Gibson) is a lonely New York City taxi driver who lives a very organised, but paranoid, existence. He spends his spare time pouring over newspapers in his high security apartment, looking for suspicious coincidences between the pages, and forming wild conspiracy theories based on them (which he recounts to his unwilling passengers the next day). He is also infatuated with Alice Sutton (Julia Roberts), a woman who works for the government, whose father has recently been killed under mysterious circumstances, and whom Jerry once saved the life of. One day, Jerry is kidnapped and interrogated by a mysterious man (a good Patrick Stewart). Jerry escapes, but soon realises that one of his conspiracy theories may have come true. But he has trouble convincing Alice of this, who has listened to Jerry's musings far too many times to believe any of them.While his creative output over the years hasn't been specifically worth mentioning, Richard Donner is hardly a filmmaker deserving of much criticism; his movies supply solid, if forgettable, entertainment that is worth the price of admission. And yet, at the same time, it's fairly disappointing to watch him try, and fail, to replicate the artistic success of his 1978 hit 'Superman'. 'Conspiracy Theory' tries to coax Donner away from his traditional formula of flying bullets and jokes (seen badly, minus the jokes, in the 1995 dud 'Assassins'), and is ultimately a more highbrow outing for the director than you might expect. But intricate plotting aside, 'Theory' just doesn't know what to do with itself, and it only half accomplishes what it does know how to do.Despite this all, the film does starts off on the right foot, with a first act that determinedly invites the audience into Jerry's specific, unreal world. At this time, one may think perhaps Donner teaming up again with 'Assassins' scribe Brian Helgeland wasn't a bad idea, as 'Theory' offers truly entertaining moments when it lets the audience see how Jerry's eccentric lifestyle brushes against the people of the city, and inhibits his own daily activities. It's not classic Donner, but it's pleasurable in an unchallenging way.Easily identifiable as the moment where 'Theory' stops holding water is when the film tumbles into a cat-and-mouse thriller, which sees our misunderstood protagonist finding it increasingly hard to stay ahead of his pursuers, or keep an easy grip on his sanity. Jerry's journey into his past alone could have been enough to maintain audience interest, but Helgeland can't decide whether his film is more of a romance or a mystery, and he ends up writing in too much of both, including a slightly too happy denouement, and plot twists and turns that, rather than emerging smoothly as the film progresses, seem to be thrown in interstitially and without proper notice. Surprisingly (or not?), Donner is partly to blame as well, as the film sags badly in the mid-section, all too soon falling back on Helgeland's ineffective comic moments, moments that the film really did not need.Thankfully, Richard Donner has star Mel Gibson (in their sixth collaboration) to fall back on. A veteran of Donner's overrated 'Lethal Weapon' franchise, Gibson doesn't fully succeed in keeping the oddities of the character from overwhelming his performance, but he manages to display Jerry's instability with little trouble. Gibson delivers solid work here, as does Julia Roberts, in perhaps her most intelligent role to date. I had a hard time swallowing the actress's lazy smile-acting in the annoying 'My Best Friend's Wedding' last June, but 'Theory' reveals once again her under-appreciated dramatic skills. Together, the two leads muster up an adequately engaging screen spark, and help make the film rousing where Donner and Helgeland couldn't have allowed it to. 'Theory' is another near miss for Donner, but it's worth cracking even so, all thanks to Gibson and Roberts.~ 6/10 ~ "},{"Title":"I too, have a soft spot for this film...","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" ...it's called the Everglades. If you've ever had to sit through a British Norman Wisdom comedy of the fifties - he's like Jerry Lewis without ever producing a single good gag - you will recognise this film as like a Norman Wisdom comedy played straight. Without singing either, though even Norman Wisdon singing is preferable to this. Mel Gibson reprises his legendary 'not quite all there' performance on speed while failing monumentally to be Robert deNiro, and Julia Roberts plays a certifiably stupid senior Federal Law official with a soft spot for short middle-aged lunatics who go into her office lobby (guarded by the world's most feeble security men) shouting every day. Ooh! Did I give the plot away? Patrick Stewart vainly tries to hide behind a large nose bandage, and that's as much as I could watch. Well, Mel, I hope the gravy was good. The film doesn't deserve a 1, but that's the lowest there is. "},{"Title":"Some things you lose, some things you give away","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Let's talk about sadness. Hey, IMDb, let's talk about a type of sadness that lingers that follows along that haunts in bitter eternity across your life. Or, I guess there is this movie, I could review it? Actors got phone calls, which lead to meetings. Those meetings resulted in lawyers receiving phone calls. Those lawyers had meetings and from those meetings it was deemed that this movie could be made. An insurance company gets their cut. Yes, at least one prostitute was paid on a production company credit card, it's cool. Also there is a soundtrack which can still be purchased. At this very moment, you could go on Amazon.com and find a copy of this movie or it's soundtrack. Sadness. "},{"Title":"Dumbed down","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This one has a very clever premise cleverly worked through, and good suspense, but it is let down by being soppified down to the market an unbelievable romance, an unbelievable ending, and too long by 15-20 minutes. Performances are good -- Mel Gibson does this sort of character well -- but they can't save this potentially good movie from turning to mush. "},{"Title":"Watchable Thriller","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Mel Gibson is Jerry Fletcher, a New York cabbie who is full of crackpot theories. Julia Roberts is Alice Sutton, a justice department attorney that Jerry wants to convince, and soon the pair are on the run for their lives as Cryptic Dr. Jones (Patrick Stewart) and his colleagues hunt them down to try and quash Jerry's theory.Although Conspiracy Theory is well cast, well written and well paced; it somehow falls short of being a great thriller. It's just a little light weight in the intrigue and the tension, it's still a fairly decent and watchable movie, just not a classic.6/10 "},{"Title":"Conspiracy Theory","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Mel Gibson is a genius!!! In this movie he, once again, prove his brilliance as an actor. Combined with the best actress, Julia Roberts, it can be nothing else but success!! "},{"Title":"Interesting, but needs some help","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Who would have thought Mel Gibson and  Julia Roberts doing a film together wouldn't  be as good as imagined? Well, it happened.  While many of the elements within the film  were funny and well thought out, the whole  marketing of the film seemed off. First of all,  Mel Gibson was out of place, playing a role  someone like Steve Buscemi or Paul Bettany  should have been in. I've never cared much  for Julia Roberts, so her haphazard performance  didn't concern me. However, I was rather  pleased of Patrick Stewart and his role as  Dr. Jonas, giving the best performance in  the film despite getting less than the  aforementioned superstars. A movie with a  lot of potential that went down the drain. "}{"Title":"worth watching, but nothing special","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Mel Gibson's performance as a paranoid cab driver is the best part of this film. The rest of the cast is good, but brought down by a somewhat cliched story and dramatic lulls. Fans of the two leads probably won't mind though. 2/4 "},{"Title":"So so film about you know what","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I guess sooner or later such a film would be released to satisfy the plethora of conspiracy theorists out there. Mel recites dozens of theories and still there are hundreds not mentioned. The film itself is mediocre, with immense plot holes, but so are the theories, so that should be no problem for the converted. Mel Gibson is his usual self, while Julia Roberts is admittedly better than her usual self. Patrick Stewart is a redeeming value, no doubt about it. "},{"Title":"And the Oscar goes to...","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Spoiler Warning Wow! The same guy that wrote the screenplay for 'Mystic River', 'L.A. Confidential,' and 'Payback' wrote this too? The fact that this trite, obnoxious, ludicrous movie ever got made is a conspiracy theory in and of itself. Earthquakes? There might be an easier way to kill the president. The stultifying ending was obviously tacked on by a studio executive to appease the masses, and the love story is completely inane. Oh yeah, it is tooooo long at 135 minutes. That is the problem with the studio Hollywood system, sometimes, or a lot of times, they like to tinker and add implausibilities; Brian Hegeland's script had to better than this, didn't it? "},{"Title":"Reasonably distracting Hollywood thriller that has stars and budget to cover for the messy and uneven material","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Jerry Fletcher is a New York cabbie who sees conspiracies on every page of the newspaper. He lives in a paranoid fear and has tent to publishing his thoughts in a amateurish newsletter that he sends out to fellow geeks. He has a fixation with Alice Sutton but other than all of that he is pretty normal. However when he is grabbed off the street and tortured he only just manages to escape with his life and get to Alice. Of course nobody believes him but a few things in his story makes Alice have just a sliver of doubt that maybe he isn't crazy. She is quickly convinced when things around Jerry get out of control and it appears that somehow one of his theories has been correct enough to get someone's attentions.At the time it came out the film offered a reasonably relevance social hook and I remember this was my reason for going to see it, although I can't really remember much more about it than that. And it was so that I decided to watch it again recently to see if it was any good. The film I found was a reasonable thriller but a little bit messy and unsure of itself across the whole running time. This is seen in the way that the film never really sets a consistent tone, mixing a genuinely enjoyable conspiracy film with something akin to a normal Hollywood thriller. The story has interesting elements but mostly it is written on convenience and contrivances that never really convince (handy how Jerry remembers so much at one certain point) and didn't engage me. Compare it to Enemy of the State and you'll understand how this doesn't really work when you compare with the pace, tension and paranoia of that film against this one.Gibson mostly overplays his part into the wacky action man that he plays all too often. He occasionally does deliver a touch of character but mostly he overplays. Roberts mostly feels bland alongside him and struggles with the tenuous links the material gives between these characters. Stewart is a classy find but sadly given too dull a character and he doesn't deliver much; I can understand what he was trying to do in being bland with underlying menace but he had too much of the former and too little of the latter.Overall then a reasonably distracting Hollywood thriller that has stars and budget to cover for the messy and uneven material. I'll probably forgot it shortly after writing this but it did fill the (generous) running time well enough despite not doing anything that special or interesting. "},{"Title":"wake up, it´s a comedy","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  and if you never seriously or with tongue in cheek considered the beautiful byzantine intricacy of conspiracy theories, man, have you missed out on one nice head trip...%P... so I give it a straight eight, since it delivered, we  all had a fun evening, one of my buddies saw it the sixth time, he teaches at the Leiden University and this Friday he will be off to Manilla for 10 days to do lectures and workshops on the impact of mobile phones (SMS in particular) on culture in developing countries...which doesn´t classify him as a pinhead, no sir. "},{"Title":"The Paranoiac as Romantic Hero","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In Conspiracy Theory Mel Gibson plays Jerry Fletcher, a New York taxi driver. (The film was directed by Richard Donner, who also directed Gibson in Maverick and the Lethal Weapon series). Jerry is an obsessive conspiracy theorist who habitually who lectures his passengers on his various theories. He believes, for example, that the fathers of Nobel Prize winners are being kidnapped by the authorities and forced to become sperm donors. He believes that NASA is trying to kill the President using a secret weapon on the Space Shuttle that can trigger earthquakes. And he believes that the Jews are responsible for all the wars in the world. Or was it Mel Gibson himself who said that? Strange how life can imitate art and actors start behaving like the characters they once portrayed.The film is not, however, simply a psychological study of an eccentric oddball. It is, in fact, an action-thriller; one of Jerry's theories actually proves to be true; it involves a conspiracy by the CIA and other American government agencies to brainwash people in order to sue them as assassins. I won't try and set out the plot, which is extremely complex and at times confusing, in any detail, but it involves the efforts of Jerry and Alice Sutton, a young lawyer with the US Justice Department, to expose this conspiracy. Alice is trying to find out the truth about the murder of her father, whom she believes may have been killed by the conspirators.This is a fairly standard thriller plot; the genre frequently involves conspiracies by people in high places to commit some dark deed or other. Julia Roberts, who plays Alice here, starred in two other films of this type in the nineties, The Pelican Brief and I Love Trouble, although this second example treated the theme in a more light-hearted way and also included romantic comedy elements.There are, indeed, attempts to inject both romance and comedy into Conspiracy Theory, although both fall rather flat. The main problem with the film, apart from the fact that the plot is difficult to follow, is that, despite Gibson's best efforts to make him likable, Jerry remains, at bottom, a nutcase, and nutcases do not generally make credible screen heroes, and certainly not credible romantic heroes. Alice, of course, ends up falling for Jerry, even though in real life, any sane woman would run a mile from him, probably while telling herself that not every lunatic is actually in an asylum. It is hard to regard as love's young dream the sort of man who is so paranoid that he padlocks the coffee and sugar canisters in his kitchen.There are two ways in which one could make a film about a character like Jerry Fletcher, either as a character-driven psychological drama or as a black comedy. In either case the character would probably have to be dealt with much less indulgently than he is here. A paranoid conspiracy theorist as romantic hero just doesn't work, even if there turns out to be a rational explanation for his paranoia. The film achieves little, other than the presumably unintended achievement of making extremist views seem slightly more acceptable. Both Gibson and Roberts have much more distinguished entries on their CVs than this one. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Conspiracy Theory","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Conspiracy Theory is one of those films that obviously is developed from a one-note idea &#150; what if one of those theories spouted by crackpot conspiracy theorists actually turns out to be on the button? &#150; and then finds it has nowhere to go &#150; nowhere believable anyway &#150; once it has established its basic idea.Mel Gibson plays Gerry, the world's worst cab driver, who spends his entire shift relaying his theories to the poor saps who find themselves in the back of his cab, before knocking off and spending some quality time spying on pretty justice department investigator Julia Roberts. He lives alone in a cramped flat whose walls are littered with newspaper clippings that fuel his bizarre theories about government conspiracies (earthquakes are triggered by NASA satellites in an attempt to assassinate the president, etc.) Gibson isn't really right for the role, and opts for broad comedy, all nervous tics and shrugs like a lightweight, harmless Riggs from Lethal Weapon, that only grow increasingly irritating the more we get to know about him.As the film progresses it transforms from a reasonably intriguing thriller into an increasingly daft story that relies on apparently highly-trained and professional agents omitting to perform obvious duties for its conclusion to be reached. Even then it's something of a stretch, and it requires the film to overrun by a good half-hour. The problem is that for Gibson's character to be considered a crackpot by those around him the true conspiracy he has stumbled upon has to be as far-fetched as all his other theories, which severely strains the storyline's credibility. "},{"Title":"Fantastically Marvelous","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Firstly, i must say how dare anyone criticize this movie. Even if this film did have a rubbish plot it would instantly be made up by the brilliant and amazing performances by that of Julia Roberts and Mel Gibson. However, the fact is there is a superb storyline and if it isn't realistic who cares? It's a movie, entertainment. Many people love the film Scooby-Doo but I don't think I have seen a talking dog lately.Anyway, the plot is great and the acting is so good that you'll wanna watch this film over and over again. The chemistry between Julia and Mel is wonderful. There will be laughter, tears and on the edge of your seat moments that are essential when making a movie. Watch and Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"A missed chance.","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  As so often in cinema, suggestion proves much more sinister than fact. While we are in doubt about Mel Gibson's paranoia, this is pretty intriguing stuff. Then it all comes out in the open and we are left to follow, sheep-like, to the rather trite conclusion. The light-hearted love interest between our Mel and Julia Roberts, curiously filmed to accentuate her uglier features, merely detracts from what could have been a much darker film - see 'Manchurian Candidate' and 'Parallax View'.   "},{"Title":"Waste of money","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A confusing mess about a sinister government agency trying to quiet down a potential problem; a talky cab driver (Mel Gibson). Gibson plays a paranoid cabby who writes newsletters about government conspiracy, he's got 5 subscribers. He's in love with District Attorney Julia Roberts, and is stalking her. When one of his paranoid ramblings hit close to what sinister doctor Patrick Stewart and his cohorts were doing, Gibson and the subscribers to his newsletter becomes the target and must be silenced. He asked the help of Roberts and get her involved in the mess. Frankly, I think the sinister government conspiracy movies have become pretty old and this one adds nothing new. Other than great cinematography, this film have absolutely nothing to offer.  "}{"Title":"Could have been a good one","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The first 20 minutes of this movie are quite entertaining; Gibson portrays one of the usual paranoids believing that the entire government plans to overtake the freedom of the nation and is controlled by the UN already. As there are a number of very disturbed people who really are taking this for granted the movie could have served a great deal on giving us an insight on their lives.But no, of course, Gibson *is* watched, he *is* being kidnapped by some government agency and so on. At that point the movie turns to complete boredom. We all can sense what will happen and the ending in itself screams tested with 200 audiences at you. Even if we leave logic aside and say, ok, he is watched, the story stays low-level; all of the most secure and highly secret agencies can be identified by usually driving black cars with government license plates to make identification even more convenient.It is to say that Gibson did some good acting here; he probably saves the movie from complete catastrophe. Julia Roberts does what she usually does in her serious roles she looks innocent and determined, others would say frigid and hysteric. Patrick Captain Picard Steward's talents are only used to a very limited degree. I wonder if he knew beforehand what he is getting himself into.If you are into conspiracy movies, watch one of the Grisham adaptions or the like. If you go training in the woods already for the day the UN will invade God's own country then go ahead with this one. It will serve your paranoia well and will give a number of psychologists an income for years to come. "},{"Title":"I'm disappointed","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie started out promising, I loved the torture scene, Marathon Man-ish. But then the stupid movie wouldn't end. In fact, it's probably still on right now, and Mel Gibson just over did it. Julia Roberts was blah in this too. Still a cool premise, but cliche ending ruins it.4/10 "},{"Title":"One the best, and most intellegent movie I've ever seen","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  You have to be intelligent, and open-minded, to figure out what exactly is happening in this movie. The story itself is intelligent, smart, and clever. The parts in it are funny, romantic, and suspenseful. If you want a movie, that will make you think, Conspiracy Theory is for you. A 10! Rated R for some violence.  "},{"Title":"paranoia isn't what it used to be","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The book the films of the nineties includes this Richard Donner's effort in the list of the most memorable films which opened in 1997. Its authors may have valuable reasons for this choice but it surely didn't deserve its place in a book supposed to be a reference in cinema. The same work jettisoned the infinitely superior the Usual Suspects (1995)!If the pair Donner/Mel Gibson had shone with Maverick (1994) which refreshed the western genre on a droll note, here in Conspiracy Theory the flame of this collaboration deserted them. By following the way of the conspiracy movie, Donner had certainly contemplated the plan to conceive and to develop his own Mandchurian Candidate (1962) or the Parallax View (1974). But these two works were thoughtful and carefully thought of in their conception and construction. Indisputable major points that Conspiracy Theory can't emulate at all. Partly because of an ill-conceived scenario penned by Brian Helgeland without unity and in which one can hardly detect a unifying thread in its major part. Donner's directorial style doesn't help matters. Going into overdrive to enliven things, his making quickly gets bogged down in the rut of the pure action film with plenty of shoot-outs, fights and chases. They nearly occupy the three-quarters of the film which doesn't really hold up because of its lack of direction and rigor and you have to wait very long before the turns of the story supposed to explain and construe it appear at last. Of course, I have in mind the key dialog between Julia Roberts and Patrick Stewart. But this is a ponderous, sketchy clarification that Donner and Helgeland offer us. The result is a film with a fuzzy plot which doesn't go deeper in its presentation of (rare), noteworthy ideas. Had these ideas been more properly showcased, the film could have had cohesive steps and twists.Conspiracy Theory is also plagued by a mediocre direction of actors and notably Gibson's antics. He overplays probably to make his role of hysterical, paranoid taxi driver credible but it turns to his disadvantage. Beside him, a bland Julia Roberts does what she can to have presence on the screen. But what can you do when you have a crushing partner who has the lions's share coupled with a badly written story?Gibson's escape in a wheelchair is the sole positive thing to save from the slump. That's what some French critics contended. I don't think so. I would tend to favor the scene in which Stewart tortures Gibson. It gives way to a creepy but flashy sequence. Anyway, the style of Conspiracy Theory is the total contrary of the thrifty the Omen (1976), the legion film in Donner's filmography. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Captains Gone Wild!","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Well, Picard doesn't exactly go topless but he was a few blowtorches short of a crème brulee in Richard Donner's Conspiracy Theory (1997).This is vapid cinema at its most Donneresque &#150; you know the pointless violence, unexciting thriller situations and dialogue that make six-year-olds grimace. Here we have a conspiracy theorist (Mel Gibson) that&#133;ohmigawd, is actually involved IN a conspiracy theory! He is inexplicably tracking a member of the Justice Department (Julia Roberts) for seemingly prurient reasons (who can blame him?). After some time did I get the understanding that these two are connected by an event of both their pasts&#133;however, by the time I reached this epiphany (?) I was so stultified by the boringly kinetic action that I really couldn't care less. (Just LET the CIA off 'em, 'kay?) How utterly disappointing that this film doesn't live up to its title &#150; nowhere do we truly get a grasp of the paranoia of a plausible conspiracy theory. Instead, all we have is Gibson spouting ridiculously far-fetched stories of collusion and ignobility. The façade of a conspiracy theory is all that is used as a VEHICLE for the interminable action. Sleep is the new on-the-edge-of-your-seat in somewhat recent action films. "},{"Title":"Gravy for the brain...","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Nutty, paranoid, but amiable New York City cabbie--the kind of movie-eccentric who keeps a lock on his refrigerator door--sees devious schemes within the CIA and slowly gets an attorney from the Department of Justice to believe him. Star-vehicle for Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts has everything money can buy, except real wit in the screenplay and a director with a tight agenda. The film is a bumbling morass of scenes, some good and many awful, yet director Richard Donner treats the whole thing like a live-action cartoon (which doesn't always work, especially when the violence gets rather nasty). Gibson runs around like a crazy lunatic with food on his face, but this is hardly impressive work; when we first see him and Roberts together, it appears to be their first meeting, yet Gibson later says it's their eighth. Roberts, who runs on her treadmill every night with the window blinds open (so Gibson can watch her through binoculars), tries to compensate for the erratic tone by giving her character a grounded, exhausted style of flipness which is winning. However, the villains of the piece are like henchman out of Marathon Man, and an excruciating interrogation sequence goes on far too long. Donner lets scenes ramble just for the hell of it, with Gibson spouting off about Oliver Stone and the connection between mass murderers which is utterly pointless. The picture is a big Hollywood product, packaged like a crowd-pleaser, but the material is as unsure as the players, and the whole thing bottoms out long before the finale. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Mel Gibson overacts his way through the whole pile of rubbish and Julia Roberts is clearly there for the pay cheque. The thinnest of stories with poor dialogue throughout. Gibsons pathetic constant mumbling is overbearing and annoying and Roberts part of the sycophantic token female is a crime against acting.Take away the background music and special effects and it is almost laughable. I cant remember seeing such an awful film. the attempts at romance are so far removed from reality it borders on fantasy.Of the many thousands of films I have seen throughout my life, this is by far the worst one ever.I cant believe Julia Roberts would be happy with her name on this one. For Mel Gibson, it highlights his obvious acting limitations and one dimensional ability in such a way that maybe a close friend should have had a quiet word with him..... "},{"Title":"Conspiracy Theory","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing this film once, and I did recognise bits and pieces when I saw it again, from director Richard Donner (Lethal Weapons 1-4, The Omen). Basically Jerry Fletcher (Mel Gibson) is a chatty taxi driver who has a conspiracy for everything, and has a habit to publish them in a newsletter. Unfortunately, one of these proves to be true, and he is now being hunted by Dr. Jonas (Patrick Stewart) and his team. With the help of Justice Department attorney Alice Sutton (Julia Roberts)m who he has had a crush on since saving her from muggers, he is now trying to find out which conspiracy of his is true, and escape capture of killing by these dangerous men. It turns out in the end that Jerry was subject to a program for an assassination, and evidence links to the murder of Alice's father, thank goodness she trusts Jerry, oh, but she thinks in the end he is dead, but that's what she (for a while apparently) and the bad guys need to think. Also starring Cylk Cozart as Agent Lowry, Steve Kahan as Mr. Wilson, Day of the Dead's Terry Alexander as Flip, Alex McArthur as Cynic and Brian J. Williams as Clarke. Gibson and Roberts do make a good team, and Stewart does make a good creepy villain, so while it may have some cracks in the sense structure, it is a very watchable thriller. Good! "},{"Title":"An All Around Annoying Experience","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I don't exactly know what it is about this movie that makes me dislike it so, but I do so dislike it. It could possibly be Julia Roberts. I have never been a big fan of anything of hers (with the exception of Mystic Pizza). She pounds the audience over the head with smarmy performance after smarmy performance. To see her, in this day and age, considered as a great actress is truly a travesty. Davis, Hepburn, Streep - those are great actresses - Julia Roberts is just smarmy.The usually reliable Mel Gibson is also a big disappointment in this one. His character - which is supposed to evoke some sort of sympathetic response from the audience - evokes only contempt. But at least he's not smarmy.The plot is a fairly predictable sort, with predictable twists, predictable turns, and an ending you can see coming a mile away. There......now I feel better. "},{"Title":"my theories proved","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie right after watching Followed. Conspiracy Theory cost $74 million and Followed $6,000.Guess which one had the better actors the better script and story and held my interest?I find the whole premise of conspiracy theories involving secret US government agencies tiresome and stupid...and adhered to by people who think they are smart but are not. You know the kind I mean. Or by the psychotic who can't help themselves.Who thinks Julia Roberts is pretty? Yuck. And you get enough of Mel Gibson's cuteness and pretty eyes to fill your tank for the next millennium.For me the star system is a joke, there are jillions of unheard of talented actors. Movies in general are dumbed down and boring as a medium as opposed to reading a good book. My quota is about 2 films per week and they have to be good ones...this one is not. My TV could be destroyed and my life would continue...the main reason I watch anything is to socialize with my partner.Watch Followed. "}{"Title":"Not Much Of A Thriller","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Ah yes conspiracy theories , this is where virgins with bizarre politics think there's prime movers hushing every thing up for a big bad event . With the exception of David Icke who does actually speak a lot of sense until he mentions shape shifting lizards from the fourth dimension I have no time for these ridiculous urban myths and hear say , especially in the wake of 9/11 . Maybe this is why I didn't think much of Richard Donner's CONSPIRACY THEORY Or maybe it's because this isn't a very good movie despite its theme . Mel Gibson plays a maniac NY taxi driver . Now let me think what was the name of that Scorsese movie where Robert DeNiro played a maniac taxi driver ? Oh and what was the name of that movie with Dustin Hoffman where a bald English actor tortures him ? You see where just at the start of the movie and already there's explicit connections towards TAXI DRIVER and THE MARATHON MAN which is never a good sign . It should also be pointed out that the plot is rather thread bare and is basically a runaround . If you want a complex thought provoking movie you'll be rather disappointed with this movie Credit where it's due . The musical score does set the right tone for a comedy thriller that doesn't take itself too seriously while Brian Helgeland's script does show Julia Robert's character on a running machine near the start of the movie which is a good example of telegraphing a script . But if you want a satisfying thriller centered around conspiracy theories I'd recommend sticking with THE X-FILES "}]