[{"Title":"Why must Hollywood meddle in things it doesn't understand?","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"92 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     I say this making no pretense at completely understanding the Irish conflict myself (you'd have to ask someone with experience of Belfast for a more authentic take on the situation), but the irresponsible way the troubles were used here as a backdrop to what is supposed entertainment staggers me.  It isn't as if it needed this detail; the terrorist could have been from any unspecified organisation.  In the incompetent handling of sensitive issues that the makers really have no idea of, the production team involved in this really have let themselves down.  Brad Pitt realised this too late and henceforth disowned the film, a fact which made me admire and respect him even more.   For this I wanted to hate the film, and yet found myself unable to.   Beneath the misbegotten attempts at 'political comment', there is a decent little thriller struggling to get out.  Pitt is great as the terrorist (dodgy accent aside) and Ford is as reliable as ever in the role of the honest cop.  Director Pakula keeps the story moving at all times and stages the action well.  Despite all these pluses, I constantly felt uncomfortable at the ways in which the script tried to manipulate my sympathies.  While it's not quite enough to make me downgrade the film on an enjoyment level, it loses big points from an ethical perspective.  Shame on you Tinseltown.    "},{"Title":"Inaccurate","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"84 out of 124 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is just a second-rate thriller which uses Northern Ireland as a convenient backdrop to add colour.  Unfortunately, the portrayal of Belfast and the terrorists and intelligence community is stereotypical, romanticised and hugely inaccurate.  The gun battle at the beginning is just ludicrous and from then on the film becomes a showcase for nauseating Irish-American 'culture,' all blarney and dreaming of the 'oul country.  The acting doesn't help as Ford sleepwalks and Pitt can't maintain the accent.  It is possible to make good thrillers set in Northern Ireland which do not dodge the politics and have sensitivity, but none of them have been made by US production companies.  'Harry's Game' is by far the best example, devastatingly accurate closely followed by 'The Children of The North' and the black comedy 'Divorcing Jack' more recently.  See these and give this Hollywood rubbish a miss. "},{"Title":"One Sorry Mess","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"68 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There seems to be a certain template for making Oirish movies in Hollywood. Add some or all of the following ingredients to your movie script - Aran Sweaters, a sub-Deliverance rural setting, comely maidens with red hair, a village idiot (teeth optional), impromptu céilís and dancing at the crossroads, priests, drunken violence and the obligatory Ooh arr, begorrah accents and you have an Irish film. And if you want some controversy, why not try to tackle the situation in Northern Ireland by adding in some IRA men for good measure. Unfortunately, the Devil's Own has quite a few of the aforementioned clichés in abundance.It is a great shame that with a cast and director of this calibre, they couldn't have come up with something better. There have been very few, if any, decent films ever made about Northern Ireland and perhaps it's time Hollywood stopped trying to put forward its own take on it, especially when it is as cack-handed as The Devil's Own. Not only is the whole movie grossly offensive to Irish people, and anyone else with a brain, but it is a dangerous message to be sending out to gullible Irish Americans. It's time film-makers stopped buying into the idea that the IRA are noble warriors when in fact they and others of their ilk are terrorists, pure and simple.Avoid this like the plague. Brad Pitt's accent is the least of the problems in this film. He just isn't convincing as the cold-blooded killer he is supposed to be - he's far too nice. Harrison Ford is his usual reliable self but too much of the movie is taken up with a largely irrelevant sub-plot featuring himself and Ruben Blades as his police partner. At times, The Devil's Own seems like an IRA film mixed up with NYPD Blue. "},{"Title":"It's not an American stoory, it's an Oirish oon!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"41 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A large part of Brad Pitt's genius as a movie star is his ability to pick scripts. The Devil's Own certainly indicates a lapse in judgment, but to a Hollywood tough guy, an IRA role is irresistible. You get a leather jacket, a ski mask, a machine gun and a cool accent. The Ulster accent is, as every movie star knows, very easy to master just randomly scramble your vowel sounds, say fook's seek frequently--and you're Oirish!But far more laughable than the accents are the action scenes, which are so badly choreographed and edited, it's hard to believe the film is a Hollywood product. First there is Sean and Frankie's shootout with half the fookin' army, which they win. Then they escape because the British forget to watch the back door. Also, there is the mysterious appearance of a vast forest in the middle of downtown Belfast, into which IRA terrorists can easily escape when cornered. Next there is the shootout with Billy Burke, in which Frankie somehow manages to fire three rounds from a double-barrelled shotgun (taking out a sniper who, oddly enough, falls forward from the impact of a shot in the chest), retrieves his pistol and fires the same shot twice--hitting Billy Burke, who for some reason counted to ten before lunging for his own gun.The biggest mistake was in casting Harrison Ford, a lead man who commands $20,000,000 per film, and putting him in a supporting role, which of course had to be rewritten and elevated to a co-lead. The result instead of a film about an IRA terrorist who comes to the States to buy munitions (which is a good precept), we get a film about a New York cop who's got an IRA terrorist living in his basement. Anyone who initially proposed such a story to the studio would have been turned down, and that would have been fortunate for all involved.In fairness to Pitt, he did try to walk away from the project, and in order to save face, ridiculed the movie before it hit the theaters, which suggests that he had more sense than anyone else on the set.  "},{"Title":"Better if you do not expect an action (and especially not a thriller) film","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"56 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a child in Ireland, Frankie McGuire (Brad Pitt) sees his dad gunned down for his involvement with the Irish Republican Army (IRA). As an adult, McGuire has followed in his dad's footsteps. When the IRA decides it needs more firepower, they hatch a plan that involves McGuire going to the United States to pick up a shipment of Stinger missiles. Through American IRA contacts, McGuire adopts a false identity and housing is arranged with a non-involved Irish family headed by New York City cop Tom O'Meara (Harrison Ford).There is an impression that The Devil's Own is an action film. The Internet Movie Database has it listed as Action/Drama/Thriller. Although there are some action elements in the film, this is really a tragic drama, almost in a classical sense, and it's best to approach the film with only that genre in mind. The plot is fairly complex and the film tends to move slowly--much more slowly than a typical actioner or thriller.The heart of the story is McGuire's relationship with O'Meara and his family. All of the other material--the IRA stuff, the mob and terrorist stuff, the New York City cop stuff, and so on, are not the focus. Those elements are present to help establish characterization, to build the relationship and understanding between McGuire and O'Meara, and to provide a justification for the developments in the film, and particularly the conclusion, which all have poignant things to say about the decisions that we make and why we make them.The film largely succeeds if seen from this dramatic perspective. It's not quite a 10, however, as it always seems slightly distanced from the viewer. It's an 8 out of 10 for me.(This comment was originally posted on January 16, 2005 and ended with the above. The following was added much later after reading through some other user comments) We should not forget that even though it takes elements from the real world to construct its story, The Devil's Own is NOT intended to be journalistic or a documentary. There is no claim that it is giving an accurate portrayal of political situations, and it's not intended to campaign for one side or another in a real-world political situation. This is fiction, folks, and should be judged _as fiction_. For that, you should forget about what you know of the real world, and assess the story, images and sounds you experience from your television. Does the story work as a self-contained entity? Are the performances good? Is it visually attractive/rewarding? Those are the kinds of things we should be judging. For me, The Devil's Own succeeded as a drama about relationships, with its poignancy arrived at primarily by making two people from very different worlds, with very different outlooks, learn to see things from different perspectives. That's great if you're very knowledgeable about Northern Ireland in the real world and if you have strong opinions about terrorism. However, your knowledge and opinions on that stuff have nothing to do with this film. "},{"Title":"Attempts to work on several different levels, and works on none of them","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Devil's Own is one of Hollywood's periodical ventures into the murky world of Irish politics. Harrison Ford, who stars here, had five years earlier starred in another such film, Patriot Games. There is, however, a difference between the two films. Patriot Games is an action thriller which simply uses the Northern Ireland situation to provide a motivation for the bad guys; they happen to be Irish Republican terrorists, but they could equally well have been Islamic militants, or Russian spies, or Mafia hit-men, and it would have made little difference to the film. The Devil's Own, by contrast, aims for something more ambitious. The two main characters are Frankie McGuire, a member of the Provisional IRA on a mission to New York to purchase weapons, and his landlord Tom O'Meara, an Irish-American police officer. For about two thirds of the film Tom does not know that his lodger is an IRA man; indeed, he does not even know the young man's real name as Frankie is using the alias Rory Devaney. Tom is only enlightened towards the end of the film when he discovers in Rory's bedroom a bag containing millions of dollars. (Are the IRA so amateurish that they would entrust the money for their arms deals to a man who then leaves it under the bed in someone else's house?) His discovery of the truth puts Tom in a difficult position. On the on e hand he disapproves of violence so cannot allow Frankie to go ahead with his plan to buy missiles for the IRA. On the other hand, he does not want any harm to come to the young man, so tries to protect him from the FBI and MI5 agents who are on his tail. (It is quite possible that the British security forces might set up hit squads to hunt down IRA men, but it seems highly unlikely that such squads would be permitted to operate on American soil with the full knowledge and cooperation of the US authorities). There is also a sub-plot involving Tom's attempts to cover up for his partner Eddie, who has shot dead a criminal who was running from him. Tom tells his superiors that the man was armed, although he had already thrown away his gun before being shot. I felt, however, that this sub-plot was never properly integrated into the main film. I was not surprised to discover that the film went through several rewrites after the original script was discarded, as it had the feel of a film written by a committee. Each member of the committee, moreover, appears to have had his or her own agenda. One member wanted to make an action thriller, a second wanted to make a political commentary on the Northern Ireland situation and a third wanted to make a character-driven psychological drama exploring Tom's ethical dilemma in having to choose between the demands of friendship and his obligation as a police officer to uphold the law. Eventually the chairman, who had the casting vote, ruled that the film would be a mixture of all three approaches.There is, of course, nothing wrong with a film which attempts to work on several different levels. The trouble with The Devil's Own is that it doesn't really work on any of them. As an action thriller it is too slow moving, with most of the action crammed into the opening and the ending. As political commentary it is too obviously slanted towards a pro-IRA position with a misguided attempt to make Frankie a sympathetic figure. (That is perhaps only to be expected from Hollywood, particularly in its pre-9/11 period. Americans who approve of this should ask themselves how they would react to a British film which tried to glamorise Timothy McVeigh or the Unabomber). As a psychological drama it is dull and the Eddie subplot is never successfully integrated with the main action. The film was turning out so badly that one of its main stars, Brad Pitt, wanted to leave the set and was only restrained from doing so by the threat of an injunction. Rather surprisingly, therefore, Pitt's performance is one of the better things about this movie. (His Irish accent, too, is quite convincing). He is certainly better than his co-star Harrison Ford who actually described this film as one of his favourites. Although Tom O'Meara is a role of the sort in which Ford normally excels- a decent, solid family man confronted with a crisis- his performance here is a dull, stodgy one, and not one of his best. Overall, the film is a disappointment, despite its two major-league stars and its major-league director. This was the last film to be made by Alan J. Pakula before his tragic death a year later in a road accident. Pakula was responsible for some excellent films, notably Sophie's Choice, so it is a shame that his career did not end on a higher note. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Good Performances, But It Seems A Bit Dated And Too Sympathetic To The IRA","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Considering that the era of sectarian violence in Northern Ireland has largely come to an end, and the IRA is rarely heard from anymore (the fight over Northern Ireland's status having been successfully moved by the peace process into the political realm) this movie has a somewhat dated feel even though it's not even 15 years old yet, dealing as it does with a young IRA operative (Brad Pitt) who comes to America to buy weapons for use back home. On his arrival, a sympathetic Irish-American judge arranges to have him stay with a local Irish-American police officer (Harrison Ford), who isn't aware of of the IRA connections. Eventually, the arrangement comes to endanger the lives of the officer's entire family.I'll grant that the two lead performances were pretty good. Pitt as Francis (or Rory, as he called himself in America) and Ford as O'Meara both seemed to capture their characters quite well. The first hour or so of the movie was rather slow-paced, but it picked up once O'Meara put everything together and figured out what Rory was all about. I was somewhat put off by what I thought was an implicit pro-IRA sentiment in this. At the movie's opening, Francis is sitting at the kitchen table at the age of 8 while his father says grace before a meal, only to have presumably unionist gunmen break into their home and shoot him in cold blood. It seemed to me that this was almost a way of justifying Francis/Rory's later actions, and it's even said at one point that if I had seen my dad shot dead in front of me ... Sorry, one can't justify those acts. I'll do this because you did that, which means that a cycle just gets started that's hard to climb out of. Both IRA and unionist gunmen should have been ashamed to call themselves Catholic and Protestant, their actions having nothing to do with the teachings of Jesus, whom both Catholics and Protestants claim to follow.Pro-IRA sentiment aside, I still thought this was a rather weak movie, saved somewhat by Pitt and Ford. "},{"Title":"A romanticised view of a merciless foe","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"42 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What is it with American-Irish? Some of their richest and most respectable members have poured millions of Dollars into the IRA, harboured some of their members, idealised the notion of a fight for freedom. Believe me, as a Scot, with William Wallace et al I've always had a certain affinity for heroes. But the IRA are no heroes. They've become Northern Ireland's drug-dealers, extortioners, gangsters. The people of Ireland as whole have had enough of them and their way of terrorising innocent people. May it be the IRA or the UDP, the notion of a Catholic V Protestant jihad has long ago turned into a simple cycle of self-perpetuating violence. These men and women are no longer anything resembling the oh-so glorious Michael Collins, they are terrorists who don't know when to quit and never knew anything but how to fight. These men aren't the Brad Pitts of the world, nor is the British Army an oppressor anymore (considering that over 90% of the locals support the Army, simply because it provides protection). Yet in 1997 we still got the great toss of this movie, showing us how brave Irishmen fight against an onslaught of British stormtroopers and evil S(I)S men. Somehow it seems that America is hell-bent on keeping up the idea of the stiff upper-lip English villain. May it be The Devil's Own, Braveheart, U-571 or most recently The Patriot, Hollywood seems bent on demonising the US' closest ally, both politically and culturally. I may not be a great fan of the English, but even I know what harm stereotypes can do. Perhaps the writer should have gone out to the streets of Belfast and asked ordinary people what they think of the IRA. Perhaps the writer should have also approached a soldier and asked him what it's like to occupy Northern Ireland. Somehow, I have severe doubts that a movie about the post-WW2 SS-Werwölfe guerillas would be quite so romanticised.And this movie has a Riverdance sequence. Oh please.... "},{"Title":"Offensive In The Extreme","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"60 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE DEVIL'S OWN is an extreme film . Extremely bad that is , and also extremely offensive to anyone to have known the sorrow of the  Troubles  . I'm still trying to work out what the most unlikely bit of the film is , the British MI6 agent who's the baddie or the battle scene at the start of the film . I'll go for the battle scene that leaves several Brits and IRA men dead . I was going to type terrorists instead of IRA men but THE DEVIL'S OWN doesn't really consider the IRA to be terrorists , more like feisty freedom fighters who like to take on the fascist British Army in a toe to toe battle that resembles the battle of Mogadishu. Well if you can be bothered to look up the death toll for September 1992 you'll find that a total of 8 people ( That's eight real people - not Hollywood extras ) died in the troubles that month , all civilians . There's also something disgusting about the fact that we see hunky Brad Pitt - Who cannot do an oirish accent at all - playing another IRA man . Why do Hollywood movies always cast a hunk like Sean Bean or Richard Gere as an IRA man ?If you're confused by my disgust at THE DEVIL'S OWN well imagine this  A film starring hunky George Clooney as a freedom fighter for Al Quida who's on a mission to buy stinger missiles to shoot down American helicopters in Afghanistan and it's up to a murderous agent from the fascist CIA to stop him by liquidating the gallant freedom fighter . Do you think Hollywood would produce something like that ? I rest my case "},{"Title":"War Of Pitt Vs. Ford= One Big Mess","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadNobody enjoys Alan Pakula's movies like I do. Klute is one of my favorite movies. Young people do not know the stories surrounding the making of this movie. The release kept being postponed and word leaked out of open warfare on the set between Ford and Pitt and their huge differences over what kind of movie they wished to make. The movie shows the result. As other reviewers have pointed out, we have reflective scenes, action scenes and IRA stuff, as in Patriot Games, all blended together in one big, brainless collage. What is left are some good scenes, in places, but there is no coherence to the movie or the slightest thematic unity. You will watch some scenes and ask why we are watching them play pool? Why are we watching the entire confirmation ceremony of Ford's little daughter? It slows the narrative down to a glacier. We have the two disparate stories, Ford's corrupt partner he must turn in and the IRA story of Pitt going on simultaneously going back and forth from one to the other like a teeter totter. What the result of the war is, you can easily divine how peace was struck. Each of the leads get some of the scenes they wanted and the movie is obliterated.It really is two movies in one. Ford's wrestling with whether to turn his idiot partner who killed an unarmed man, or the IRA story of Sean and his quest to buy Stinger missiles from crooked arms dealer Treat Williams. This goes back to the beginning where Sean and the IRA decide until they shoot down some English helicopters the war is lost. Frankly, the Ford story is boring beyond belief. We get some romance with his wife which again slows the movie down. We and other people yelled pick a movie!! The sad part is the Pitt story is great and every time it picks up steam back to the Ford crap we go. Treat Williams is great as a crooked, sadistic arms dealer who you should never trust. The ending is moving and well done but it will only anger you at the movie that might have been. Frankly, the Ford story bears no thematic congruency with the IRA story and I cannot but wonder if it is here simply to give Ford more screen time. The family rituals dinner, confirmation, pool, walks on the night streets, why are these here? Pitt's parts are the only ones worth watching but the movie defies you to keep it on. Just as your interest in the compelling IRA story unfolds, back to Ford, his squeeze and their eternal social calender. It was in our paper that the original director quit or was fired and was replaced by Pakula. There was plenty of press how neither of the two leads would ever work with the other again. Whatever the soap opera, this is one absolute mess. If you really like the Pitt Irish story, you are going to have to endure plenty of extraneous crap that will really annoy you. If only these two idiots could have worked together what a movie this might have been. I am sorry, I cannot recommend this movie. "}{"Title":"*** Insert Equally Pretentious Review Name Here ***","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"28 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are a number of Hollywood productions that use a foreign political conflict as a cheap backdrop for an action flick to give it a sense of urgency and authenticity -- many of which, incidentally, Harrison Ford chose to star in (I always get confused and mix up The Devil's Own with Patriot Games and Clear And Present Danger, mainly because Harrison always seems to play the same, generic character with the same, generic wife), but this one manages to take the price for most dubious politics AND being dead boring as well.  Quite a number of commentators seem to take the view that hey, it's not a documentary, but I wonder whether their reactions would have been the same if the freedom fighter had been Palestinian (his father has been killed by the Israelis and now he's out to buy Stinger missiles to fight back against the occupation of his home land) or Iraqi ... I dare say that the reception wouldn't have been quite so sympathetic.  As it is, the movie stands for a time before 9-11, when the US position on terrorism was slightly less well defined, if not totally different altogether.But even taken as mere entertainment, this flick fails miserably.  Starting with the preposterous title;  then there is only one blood-guns-and-explosions action scene, at the very beginning (noble freedom fighters vs. the Forces Of Evil).  Next, both the good guy and his opponent are, ahem, good guys, which necessitates the introduction of some more bad guys to keep the plot moving  namely the weapons dealer (boy, didn't they ever try hard to make him look sinister -- I was already expecting a scene where he serves beer to some college kids without asking to see their licenses first) and Harrison's cop colleague;  actually, when he first showed up I thought that he looked somewhat sinister for a good guy --pock marks, greasy hair, Hispanic -- until a bit further in the movie it miraculously turns out that, naturally, he IS a baddie after all!  Director Alan Pakula masterfully rounded this off with some of the most nauseating cinematographic stereotypes in the book -- especially the use of quaint Irishy flutes full blast whenever the subject comes to Ireland, but I also found the scene where the two terrorists play war with water hoses quite memorable.  In a way I'd wager that because the film tries so hard to cover up its sympathies for the militant Irish Republican cause it derails so badly in the entertainment department.But like I said, this movie is quite interesting, if only for historical and political reasons.  Nowadays you it would be impossible to produce a movie which so blatantly justifies terrorism (now that the US have become the victim) or that portrays the British so badly (now that they have become allies #1).  Watch this as an example for how quickly attitudes can change. "},{"Title":"From my review site","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now first of all I am not a Brad hater. I rather think he is quite a good actor. He shows good potential. As for Harrison Ford well the man is an icon. I have hardly ever left the cinema during a film but with this one I did.Now as for why I really dislike this film.....First of all the accents. Oh please! Brad has as much an Irish accent as I do a Jamacian one. I was hoping that they would have asked me to be his voice double but for some reason they did not?? Ok next the story Hollywood has a lot to answer for but their handling of a very volatile situation (to say the least) was equivalent in trying to make a world war 2 movie with Hitler as a tragic hero. I could go on being real political but I am not going to so there.What else? Ehhhmmmm I am not too sure as I walked out after 35 minutes so that is all I have to say.  "},{"Title":"Alan J. Pakula's last film is incredibly disappointing...","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very mediocre movie, and a bad sign-off for Alan J. Pakula (who died a year later in 1998 from a car crash). Listen to Brad Pitt's awful accent for a few moments and you'll get a clear idea that this film is going nowhere.It caused some controversy on release because of its simplified view of the IRA/Britain terrorism and some people (particularly Europeans I suppose) took offense to the fact that Brad Pitt's character is given a motive for what he does... and the film seems to sympathy with him.Brad Pitt hated the film and Harrison Ford and him battled on set over who would become the focus of the film itself (apparently Pitt became upset because the script was re-written and his character was given less screen time).I only recommend it to people who haven't seen many movies. Why? Because then the recycled dialogue, characters, plot, and performances may seem fresh. But as it stands, The Devil's Own is a poor example of mediocre film-making. Or is that a good example of mediocre film-making? Whatever it is, the film is not anything special, and certainly not anything that hasn't been done before. "},{"Title":"Not really very good","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The initial problem I had with this film is the fact that an IRA soldier, in New York to buy and transport weapons to bring back to Ireland, would bunk in with an NYPD Sergeant and his family. That sounds like asking for trouble to me. Not a smart move. I can't imagine the IRA sanctioning a rather reckless move like this. The large amount of money Pitt's character was carrying, and the importance of these weapons making it to Ireland had me shaking my head in disbelief that Rory (Pitt's character) would take such a risk of trying to pull this off right under this police sergeant's nose.Some on this site have complained about Brad Pitt's Irish accent, however I thought Pitt was easily the best part of this film. He succeeded in creating a troubled, but somewhat sympathetic character. It is his performance that I even gave this film a 4. Treat Williams was also very good as the mean, black-hearted weapons contact for Pitt's character in New York.I had enormous problems with Harrison Ford's efforts in this movie, if efforts is the right word. When Ford first burst on to the scene many years ago, he looked like a solid, creative acting talent. However, in recent years, he has taken on this goody-goody, moralistic, cutesy-pie, boy scout character style which he seems to hide behind, and it's just ridiculous, and reflects really lazy acting (see Air Force One and Patriot Games, to name two). It is truly irritating and disappointing, and brought this movie way down in my view.I had trouble swallowing the premise, but Ford's performance just made this cringe-inducing to me. "},{"Title":"Shoddy, ill conceived excuse of a political thriller","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With two such stars as Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt attached to the project, and a political hitch to the storyline involving the Ireland terrorism subplot, The Devil's Own seemed poised to be the year's most powerful and thought provoking, as well as probably very entertaining and income churning action film. Strangely enough, despite all of these advantages aiding the movie, and it still turned out to be just a step above what one could generously call terrible. The Devil's Own sports every possible modern storytelling cliché, the worst being the families shown at home in domestic life, which might as well have been cut out of a magazine they are so clean cut and utterly devoid of any sort of believability or imagination. (the scene with Brad Pitt's character's family as a child is painfully awful, the most unbelievable portrait of an on screen family I have seen to date) It goes without saying that the horribly americanized perception of Ireland and Irish customs is downright insulting, as is often the case, but it seems so much more defined and offensive here. Director Alan J. Pakula seems to be trying to make three different movies in one, and have absolutely no idea as to how to tie them together or maintain any sort of continuity or plot flow. The Ireland subplot is likely meant to provide motivation for Brad Pitt's IRA terrorist character, but seems completely at odds with the story of Harrison Ford's painfully stereotypical troubled, world weary cop character back in the States. The concept of the terrorist just by chance happening to go and stay at the house of the police officer who is hunting him down is just plain unbelievable, and doesn't come off as at all clever and ironic as the screenwriters intended it to be. Instead, it is groan worthy, as are most of the incredibly contrived plot twists and goings on in the story.Even on the acting front, the shoddy storytelling comes across. Despite the two major action stars being lined up, both give completely unremarkable and even downright bad performances, and there is the constant storytelling conflict as to which of them is the main character, as if the writers themselves could not decide as to which character was meant to be the protagonist. The rumour that Pitt had serious conflicts of interest with the director and script and in fact tried to dissociate himself with the film shines clear, as he seems to put next to no effort into his performance (his Irish accent is cringe worthy, one of the worst attempted accents in film history to date, which is ironic considering his hilarious performance as an Irish Gypsy in Snatch 3 years later) as if he just wanted to film his scenes and leave. One can't blame him, as it seems he was the only one in the whole film who seemed to understand how badly the film was turning out to be.But Ford, the other bankable action star seems to at least be putting some effort into a believable character, but his policeman character seems so dull and uninspired that we as an audience find it completely impossible to empathize with him in any way. The supporting characters seem to be extras rented off the street for all the acting experience they seem to have at all, and most supporting characters seem barely necessary for the progression of the horribly weak storyline at all. (one still wonders at the end what was the point of including Natascha McElhone's character - a potential love interest for Brad Pitt left half written perhaps?) It's just another front on which the movie demonstrates how little substance there is to it at all, and how weak and clichéd it really is. Overall, it seems fair to say that you should not consider The Devil's Own exactly recommended - not to those who would rather enjoy themselves watching a movie anyway. For those who have a preference for weak, extremely poorly and disjointedly written scripts with completely archetypal characters, lazy and absent minded directing and even some good old fashioned bad acting, you have found your movie. But there are so many other suspense thrillers out there, superior in almost every aspect, so when looking for an enjoyable movie to rent, it would not seem at all presumptuous to pass on The Devil's Own, leaving it to fall back into the domain of poor movie hell in which it belongs.-3/10 "},{"Title":"An obvious trap","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Given the plot (IRA-terrorism and its liaisons with the US) this film must be judged at two levels. The first level is that of the entertaining value. Pakula borrows a heavy political theme, simplifies all and everyone and makes out of it a 2 hour show, including a bag pipe score and all the other cliches you can possibly think of (My father was a fisherman). At this level, the film deserves 7 out of 10.  In some comments the heroism in this film is convicted. There I agree. We now come to the second level. This is not a serious movie about the IRA and its politics, simply because it's naive and CONSCIOUSLY simplifies complex matters. More over, the whole matter is brought over to the US, where it looses all sharp edges. What we actually see is an action movie with a nice, good looking guy who, for the sake of us all, kills an illegal weapon deliverer. We forget that he (i.e. we don't forget, it's Pakulas way of portraying his main character) actually is a real IRA-terrorist - a brain washed brutal soldier murderer, thinking this is a way of serving justice and truth. Hollywood, in the end, makes them all look bad. Pakula is no exception. "},{"Title":"Alan J Pakula's disappointing swan song","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Alan J Pakula made a name for himself thanks to the stunning thrillers he made in the seventies such as Klute (1971), the Parallax View (1974), All the President's Men (1976). Alas! More than twenty years after the release of these movies and at the screening of the devil's own, this director seems to have lost his talent and inspiration.First, the devil's own features two Hollywood monsters Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford but Pakula badly manages them. You are under the impression that he wanted to balance their respective sequences so that each of them has his own equal part on the screen. A particular moment clearly shows it. The day after Pitt's arrival in the USA, he comes into contact with the arms dealer Billy Burke to purchase missiles. Pakula alternated this moment with a sequence aiming at showing Ford in his role of bold cop. This demonstrative side is useless for the plot. On another hand, Pakula steeped his movie with sentimental romance for Pitt and Ford. Even if this latter point is only a detail, it makes the movie uninteresting by endowing it with a somewhat Hollywood character. It goes to show that counting exclusively on two famous actors to save a movie is not sufficient. It can even hinder its success.The disappointment of the devil's own also comes from the fact that not only is Pakula powerless to try something new but he is also unable to renew the detective movie. He exploits without any major surprise, a few themes with overrated reputation. You can also detect in it a lack of relief the IRA subject is barely sketched out. Then, the relationships between the characters often boil down to a series of looks that speak volume, of pistol shots, of weak dialogs. Let's add that the movie accumulates the stereotyped characters, the predictable sequences. All these shortcomings reveal Pakula's lack of investment in his film.The devil's own is the final movie of a weary filmmaker. It is a pity to see him leaving the cinema on a disappointing movie, (he was to die one year later in a car crash).  "},{"Title":"A shamelessly simplistic film that is offensive in its depiction of the Northern Ireland situation and also a flat and boring piece of entertainment","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"41 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having become public enemy number one thanks to his murders of RUC, Army and Loyalists alike, Francis McGuire is being hunted by the British Army. With his freedom-fighting brothers being executed by the cruel and ruthless British, Francis has NO CHOICE but to illegally travel to America in order to purchase Stinger missiles from Afghanistan to use them to bring about a United Ireland by blowing up British helicopters. Being put up by family man and cop Tom O'Meara, Francis makes his connections but they are closing in on him while Tom also starts to suspect something is up.In America, many seem to have an idealised view of Northern Ireland and perhaps do lots of things in their minds to justify (or just ignore) the terrorism that occurs there but even Pitt saw this film as a mess and the most irresponsible bit of film-making &#150; if you can even call it that &#150; that I've ever seen and trust me when I say that he isn't wrong at all. From the very start, those with any sort of knowledge or understanding of the NI situation will recognise some perversion of facts in the running gun battle that occurs and the way that senior British officers simply execute a prisoner. You could be mistaken for hoping that this was a one-off but the entire film is sympathetic to terrorism and never misses a chance to twist reality, justify it or simplify when it can. In case I'm accused of being a typical Prod and anti-IRA, I would like to point out that terrorism on both sides of the divide is unacceptable and is nothing about fighting for independence or any other such wonderful ideals &#150; in fact in the past few years the victims are mostly within the groups' own community and the action is more about crime such as drugs etc.It is only slightly interesting to view in this the light of events since 11th September and the recent murder of a catholic man by the IRA over a minor barroom squabble. Can you imagine this film being made about a man from the Middle East who turns to terrorism against the West due to events he witnesses &#150; can you imagine such an idea ever being OK'd? Hopefully the recent murders, punishment crimes and the massive bank robbery will have served to show the US that Northern Ireland terrorist groups are no different, regardless of what this film tries to show. The bias and care taken to win the extremist support is even shown in how the film has an entire subplot with Tom's partner and a bad shooting to show how Tom will turn his back on people when it is the right thing to do &#150; thus in part excusing him for eventually having to take a stand against Francis and, by default, the IRA.Maybe it is unfair to rip at this film for being totally irresponsible, insulting and truly offensive to me personally and the thousands who have died and the countless who continue to suffer under the self-proclaimed authority of these groups; no, maybe it is unfair to watch this as anything other than the piece of entertainment that it is. However even on this level the film is rubbish; it drags, has no sense of realism, nothing to emotionally involve you in the characters and a total lack of pace. The action is overblown, stupid and lacking excitement; meanwhile the narrative is plodding in both development and delivery.With all this going on and the rumours of massive onset fights, one could perhaps forgive the cast for being awful but what can't be forgiven is Brad Pitts' accent. It is about the worst I've heard and those who defend it have simply not talked to enough people from Northern Ireland. It's only one of his problems though and he can't make a character that works out of the mess he has been handed. Ford is sturdy and seems to be off in his own little movie for part of the film &#150; in fairness he is probably the strongest bit of the film but that isn't saying a lot. Support from Blades, Williams, McElhone and others all comes to nothing and they certainly can do nothing to stop the rot.Overall this is a terrible film that is not only a poor piece of entertainment but an offensive treatment of a complex situation that involves politics and terrorists. I won't harp on about it but I hope that those who think I'm over the top will stick with me for one more moment. During September 1992 (when the film shows a raging gun battle between the evil army and a band of freedom fighters/IRA) the following people lost their lives in the struggles (ages in brackets) Peter McBride (18), Samuel Rice (30), Charlie Fox (63), Tess Fox (53), Michael Macklin (31), Leonard Fox (50), Gerard O'Hara (18) and Harry Black (27). All of these 8 people were civilians. One of them was a suspected member of a terrorist group and one was a former member of the UVF but the other six had little or no connections (Charlie & Tess Fox were shot because their son was in the IRA). Only one of the 8 was killed by the British Army and, to counter the depiction of the British officer coldly killing the terrorist without any comeback it should be noted that the shooting of McBride by a UK soldier ended with the two soldiers involved being sentenced to life in prison. Be careful of what Hollywood feeds you &#150; have your own mind&#133;these are real people, not an action movie. "},{"Title":"Meaningless","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Meaningless film from the otherwise formidable paring of director Alan J. Pakula and Harrison Ford takes a weighty subject and does nothing with it. Any flick about the terrorist activities of the IRA and the people within the organisation, has the potential to be explosive. Not this pedestrian plot concerning a young activist hiding out in the home of a respectable cop while making arrangements to ship a large amount of explosives back to the mother land.With so little to work with, both Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford have to dig deep to keep the audience interested. Brad's young IRA lad, full of angst and vengeance, is brought to life quite well by a youthful thespian whose future is bright. Harrison Ford only needs appear on screen to grab your attention, and his world weary sergeant is worthy of note. These two struggle throughout the movie to keep the story above mediocre.If you tell a story, have a point. There are few exceptions to this rule; this was not one of them.Saturday, January 2, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"Ford & Pitt team up...","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Meh. Totally forgetable movie, isn't worth much.  Treat Williams in a small supporting role is a true bastard, but there isn't much drama, and the ending kinda sucks.  Only notable for having an early role for Julia Stiles, but I don't much care for her, so I would say don't bother with this. "}{"Title":"What's the Point? Does This Reveal, Incite, Question? Inspire? Horrify? Anything?","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Devil's OwnAlan J. Pakula makes films with strong, sometimes sensational, social content--Nazi cruelty, Irish nationalism, corruption, conspiracy. He doesn't always pull off a masterpiece of cinema in all those usual ways, but they rarely lack for interest, or at least scenes of interest.The Devil's Own is in some ways typical. It is filled with possibilities, and great ones. If Parallax View and Klute have a larger following, and Sophie's Choice the weight of a great novel behind it, it shares with them all an occupation, possibly a preoccupation, with plot, and the meaning behind the plot. That is, events following events, one thing leading to another.Gordon Willis is a great cinematographer, responsible for some of Woody Allen's best films as well as all three Godfathers. And for this last film in his career, he is pressed into service, and makes the fighting and the lulls (there are both, but more lulls) both dramatic and beautiful.But to what end? I found it actually dull--boring--after awhile, and I know it isn't because of sympathy or lack of sympathy, because I have both. It's still a movie, and has to survive even in different contexts--different countries, different living rooms-- regardless of persuasion. And this particular movie also become thankfully historical and past tense--the early paramilitary violence and brutality, hopefully exaggerated for the film because it sometimes seems really chaotic and endless--so has lost a little of its edginess. The conflict in Northern Ireland really is far less destructive than it was, and less a tinderbox.Harrison Ford? Brad Pitt? Well, these seems odd choices for what is a terribly gutwrenching Irish topic. It is action-adventure, and yet it clunks along. Far from worthless, the movie still ironically has less force behind it than it requires. The topic deserves better. "},{"Title":"Brad Pitt concentrated so heavily on attempting to master a realistic Irish accent, that he forgot to act. AND never did actually manage to sound Irish. to sound","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Aside from the fact that the fight scenes are totally unrealistic and that the script conveys a total lack of knowledge concerning the conflict, this films is a case of bad casting. Why chose an American actor incapable of mastering the Belfast accent? Brad Pitt seems so caught up in his attempt to sound Irish that he forgot to act! "},{"Title":"Don't even bother","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was not such a bad movie, up until the ending. The ending is one you are told not to use in Grade 3 creative writing classes, and here is a supposed adult using it in a film.Apart from that, the movie is slow and disinteresting. Save your money and see something else. "},{"Title":"Sad end to a career","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Two good actors turned into two difficult stars and director Pakula was left with little to do but make a boring mess of a film. Neither actor seemed willing to be outdone by the other for screen time or audience sympathy so you're left with no real hero no real villain and no real movie. Neither of these actors are at their best when doing accents, even subtle ones and for some reason the Irish troubles have rarely made for good Hollywood based films. Pakula, like Hitchcock liked to hold shots without cutting and at his best used unconventional framing and odd pacing to great affect. Here he doesn't get to demonstrate much style other than long boring shots where nothing is really going on script wise. A real waste of time and a sad final film for a director who,this time at least, didn't have a chance against the Hollywood star system that has increasingly lead to many films since this one with powerless first time directors directing traffic on set rather than guiding a film beyond delivering flattering angles of the stars whose faces make up all poster art these days. "},{"Title":"Sinfully bad","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this ridiculous nonsense on NBC five years ago, chopped up for telecast, and so bad that two hours of advertisements for furniture at Penney's and previews of Friends (or reading the bloviating message boards for this movie) would have been better. The story is so much pro-terrorist Hollyweird mush with Brad Pitt as a killer-looking IRA gunman hiding out in America while speaking some sort of language loosely based on English and Harrison Ford, grumpy and spikey-haired, wearing a policeman's uniform, slowly--very slowly, mind you--figuring out that there's a bad man living in his basement.Even with the bloodletting trimmed for telecast and the inherent fragmentation of television working for you, not against you, you get the feeling that everyone involved, including the late, great Alan J. Pakula, would rather forget this bloody, incomprehensible, incoherent junk. Once again, the Left Coast has turned a complex, grey-shaded, and achingly tragic issue into a cutesy-wretched, terrorists-are-just-misunderstood, amoral mess.Skip it however it comes. "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This muddle-headed clunker surfaces on TV every once in awhile. Pitt plays an IRA terrorist who comes to America and moves in with -- of all people -- a cop and his family! Harrison Ford started showing his age with this one, and Pitt is woefully miscast as the Irish killer. See him as an Irish gypsy in SNATCH instead. And Ford should not be seen in any films after 1995. That's when he turned into the Old Man who can no longer act. What a sorry mess of a movie. Watch instead Jeff Bridges and Tommy Lee Jones in the hokey thriller BLOWN AWAY. At least that one has Lloyd Bridges, Jeff's late and much lamented dad, doing a crusty Irish accent. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Devil's Own is a pretty boring film. Its more a star turn than a story, and the characters are not that interesting to be honest. Harrison Ford, and Brad Pitt are very good actors, but the movie its not in their league, and it should have been a lot better than it was. If you like these actors, see something other than this film by them, because it will put you to sleep. "},{"Title":"This one includes a major spoiler!!! WARNING","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (Spoiler warning)This movie sucks. It would be very easy to make it good just remove the ending and replace it with something completely different, because it is probably the worst last words in any film in history.As Pitt's character dies, Ford's dito says We never had a chance you and I. AAAARRRRGGGHHHHH! In the Swedish language, we often use butter as a metaphore for cheesy sequences or characters, and this one is so awfully filled with it, it's just stupid.And to think that two of the greatest actors on Earth collide in this awful film. "},{"Title":"All concerned should be deeply ashamed...","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw this film for the first time on television. Despite a lot of stiff competition, it managed to take the top spot in the 'Worst Ever Film About Northern Ireland' league. You'd think that the tortured history of my country would provide great inspiration for Hollywood, but the number of films about Northern Ireland that have raised themselves above the level of dire can be counted on one hand.It's the pandering to the most bigoted elements among the Irish-American community that really drags films like this down. If you were to fill the gaping holes in the political accuracy of The Devil's Own, you'd be left with a just about competent thriller. Pitt's accent isn't that bad, the script isn't the worst ever, but let's face it, this is no classic.Throw in a staggering lack of sensitivity to the issues with which it deals, and you've got one of the very worst films I've ever seen. The so-bad-it's-funny closing line of 'We had no choice, you and I' doesn't ring quite true. Pitt and Ford could have chosen to give this movie a wide berth. I could have chosen to watch something else instead. If only we always made the right choices... "},{"Title":"Thriller With Northern Ireland Backdrop","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm sure that many viewers will point out with venim that the film was inaccurate with regard to the conflict in Northern Ireland, as well as Brad's accent, which, personally, I thought he had put some work into.The film is basically a thriller using the N.I conflicts as a backdrop to generate the pathos for the film; so anyone watching it to see an angle on the troubles will be disappoiinted.However it gave Pitt a chance to show off his ability to be directed and follow staged fight scenes. He was his usual brilliant self at emotional expression.The purpose of his journey to The States was almost glossed over with the film relying on the first few scenes to show why he had such a vengful purpose.The title of the film is fairly misleading, as it serves only as an  extra tag line. This is NOT a deep or meaningful film in any way, nor does it contain much accurate historical fact. The 'morphing' of the young boy after seeing a close family member being shot was a little hurried, but served to get you into the rhythm of the film. As there were very few people actually hunting or chasing him on screen except for Ford, his worth for information/intelligence as far as those around him were concerned was almost nil.... but his intentions were far more sinister.Maybe the point of the film was to demonstrate that to win the cause closest to your heart or carry out duty through conscience or revenge, you may have to kill the person who gets in your way. Either way the wasting of a life comes down to the same thing no matter how it's  done.I realise that it must have been a rather insulting film to those close to the troubles, in terms of trivialisation and attitude, but to repeat my earlier comment, the title of the film was a little misleading, and it may have given rise to higher expectations.However Pitt's accent wasn't that bad, and his mannerisms were clearly worked on, and all in all the film was entertaining.At least the film allowed you to reach your own conclusion at the end, and didn't particularly force any political points on the viewer. "}{"Title":"Hollywood Whitewash for Murdering Psychopaths","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I would like to think that this film could not have been made in the form it takes since 9.11. Now that Americans have a vague idea what it is like to run the risk of being blown apart each time you go into any town centre. A feeling everyone who in the Britain lived with for thirty years, regardless of nationality, age or politics. Anyone in a British city ran the risk of being blown apart by an IRA bomb. Like the truck bombs detonated in London and Manchester by the IRA at about the time this film was set. I certainly hope that it would not now be made since the murder of Robert McCartney by IRA psychopaths forced a few more Americans to question the nature of the gangs they have been funding for decades.Would it be beyond reason to hope that Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford would now, with hindsight, feel less than comfortable with the two set-speeches in this movie in which they more or less state that IRA killers are really helpless victims who have no choice about what they do?Then there is the battle near the start of the movie A couple of heroic IRA killers mowing down soldiers and police in a glorious outnumbered stand. The FACT is that there were never any such battles in Ireland. The heroic IRA never tried to take on the security forces directly. Sure their courageous snipers picked off individual foot-soldiers from a mile range using the Barret Light.50 sniper rifles donated by American supporters. But their only real targets have always been unarmed civilians. Of which they have murdered thousands more than they ever have soldiers and police. "},{"Title":"given the fear of terrorism today....","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...The Devil's Own from 1997 isn't a great film.Starring Harrison Ford, Brad Pitt, Treat Williams, Ruben Blades, and Margaret Colin, the story concerns a Northern Ireland IRA terrorist, Frankie McGuire, who comes to New York to buy weapons. Using the name of Rory Delaney, a judge, Peter Fitzsimmons puts him up at the home of an Irish cop, Tom O'Meara. O'Meara has no idea of Frankie's identity.Rory has brought a ton of money with him and is supposed to make a deal with one Billy Burke (Williams). When he is told by his superiors in Ireland to hold off, Burke gets tough and wants the money. When Tom's house is robbed, his wife held at gunpoint, but nothing taken, Tom begins to wonder about his houseguest. With good reason.Tom himself is having a crisis of conscience when he supports his partner Eddie (Blades) by lying about a shooting.This could have been an excellent film, as it's about two men with completely different moral codes, both believing they're right. Frankie saw his father killed in front of him when he was eight years old, and this started him on the road to killings. Tom has drawn his gun only a few times in all the years he's been a police officer. The problem is that this is muddied by the script being somewhat pro-terrorism.In today's climate, pro-terrorist films with sympathetic killers don't go over well. As someone pointed out, if this had been about someone from the Middle East partly responsible for 9/11 portrayed this way, it probably wouldn't be made.Brad Pitt does a good job, despite some of his accent problems. Harrison Ford is solid but a little boring. The ending was the best part.We don't hear much about the Irish conflict anymore, but years ago, many charities purportedly for Irish children were fronts for collecting money to support the IRA. My sister pointed this out to an Irish friend once, who was about to give such a charity some money, and she said, So what? So what? Terrorism isn't right, no matter which side resorts to it. It's understandable that Frankie/Rory had strong feelings, but there are other ways to deal with them.Kind of annoying. "},{"Title":"A Hollywood Movie about the IRA","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When looking at this movie through the advertisements it sounds like an action movie where a cop (Harrison Ford) is chasing some murderous psychopath (Brad Pitt); that was the impression that I got, and the title doesn't really help that much either for it makes Pitt's character sound like some really evil and sadistic man. He is not.This movie is based around the IRA activities in Ireland and the main character is Brad Pitt. The entire movie is centered around him. The basic plot is that the British are gaining the upper hand because they have helicopters so Pitt must go over to the United States and smuggle some stinger missiles back into Northern Ireland to deal with it.The movie opens with Pitt's father being murdered and then moves to the present day where his character is being hunted down by the British. This quickly dissolves into a huge gun battle in the middle of Belfast where the British are basically using force of numbers to suppress the situation, and even then they fail to achieve their goal.The bulk of the movie takes place in the United States and has very little action. It revolves around Pitt arranging the deal. Unfortunately things go slightly wrong and the deal has to be postponed, which upsets the crime lord who is arranging it no end.There is very little in the way of constant pursuit between Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt. In most cases they are friends, though Ford is ignorant of the true nature of Pitt's character. It is only when the crime lord starts putting pressure onto Pitt that things start happening. When they do, the viewer (or at least myself) starts to have sympathy for Pitt. He is not an evil man, he is just a soldier fighting a war. There is a struggle between him and Ford for we like both but we know that they cannot help each other. The real enemy, and even Ford sees this, is the British. Even Harrison Ford has sympathy for Pitt's character by the end of the movie.The Devil's Own is neither a fast movie nor is it an action movie. The video labels it as a thriller but even then I didn't think much of that. It is hard to put it into a category. If you are looking for a fast action movie, then look for something else. Even though, I still liked this movie and thought that the character development was in itself quite good. "},{"Title":"Big star power but disappointing","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  No question there was a pretty impressive cast, but there really seemed to be something missing from this movie.I'm not surprised Brad wanted to walk on this film, it shows surprisingly good judgement. Basically, when you get down to it, this is a fairly simple tale of conspiring circumstances which just seems to go astray. It starts out somewhat promisingly but, by the end, is nothing more than maudlin.My vote, 6/10. Don't bother with this movie unless you have to or you're obsessed with Brad Pitt. "},{"Title":"Ford blows a tire in this one","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I see a Harrison Ford film, I expect action and excitement. This film falls within the category of if can't fall asleep, watch this one. Ford appears as a cop, but for most of this film is not very important. Not until his home is invaded and the truth about his lodger is known does this film pick up, a little. The lodger is Brad Pitt, and apparently the main character in this film. Trying to watch a Pitt speak and be Irish is kinda laughable at times. What is the whole point of this film, I guess about the IRA and missiles which Pitt wants to buy and take back to his country. If you are having problems and cannot sleep, then by all means watch this film, good night! "},{"Title":"Do not Watch this Movie","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was set up to be a great one. Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford. You would like to think that this had to great actors and a good story line. Well, after 20 minutes your ready to turn this off. It starts out pretty fair but after the first 5 minutes you are ready to go watch reruns of the Brady Bunch. This movie is so boring that you start fast forwarding hoping to get to a part that has a little bit of story to it. This movie is made for the sole purpose of putting you to sleep. The ending to this movie is worse than the movie itself.I waited for some kind of climax and it never came. The only climax to this movie is when you hear the DVD hit the bottom of your trash can. I would rather go to the dentist and get my teeth pulled out than watch this so called movie. I think it is one of the all time worst movies ever made. Do yourself a favor and do anything and I mean anything than watch this movie. "},{"Title":"why?","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" We all know why an American was chosen to play the Irishman in this truly terrible film, but why did they have to pick one who was incapable of faking an Irish accent? I have heard some bad accents in my time, Donald Sutherland and Jonny Depp to name but two, but this guy really managed to live up to his name - his accent was the pits.Brad, stick to what you are good at and leave the accents to others more capable.And Harrison, what can I say? Can't you recognise a stinker when you see one or were you really that hard up for money that you had to do this - oh, silly me, of course I just remembered those magic words - contractual obligation. Sorry. "},{"Title":"bad accent, bad movie?","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i thought that this was one of the worst movies i have ever seen, about northern ireland in particular.  the could easily have afforded a better actor with a better accent.  i laughed so hard when i heard brad pitt speak that i could barely watch the film.  of what i did see, i thought it was rubbish, to put it mildly.  the one thing that annoyed me the most was at the beginning, during the gun fight thing, in n.ireland.  it seemed to glamorise the whole situation and didn't show much realism.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie of 1997","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford is given the worst role of his career, and in turn, reciprocates with one of the most lifeless by-the-numbers performances in the last 20 years. This movie has characters that are nothing but lifeless ethnic stereotypes made large, replete with hamfisted ethnic music piped in at the appropriate times to remind you that the character being focused on is Irish/Italian/etc.And the dialogue! Good lord! Clumsy, empty, cliche ridden speeches, monologues, and diatribes are the norm here. Is there any IRA (you'll never understand!) or cop (You shot a man in the back, Eddie!) that this film dared not explore? If the producers felt compelled to pack this film with so many stupid and hollow characters, couldn't they *at least* have given them something to say? Now I'm not asking for anything profound, but the vapid discourses between these moving mannequins is almost too much for all but the most ignorant i'll-pay-to-see-anything moviegoer to bear.What's more, this film makes the dreadfully common mistake of painting it's good guys in such blindingly friendly tones that they become one dimensional. To wit Harrison Ford as the perfect father, perfect cop, etc. etc. The camera loiters on the friendly sibling rivalry in the house (o, how those girls fight over the bathroom! tee hee!) to show just what sort of bliss Ford's character (a cop who never met a big hearted Irish cop cliche he didn't like) lives in. Execrable.Brad Pitt is unspeakably bad as an IRA rogue, and the supporting cast (such as it is) takes the Patty O'Furniture school of bad Irish accents route, and the results are every bit as miserable as the description. By the time this horrible dirge of a movie sets it's moribund plot into motion, you won't care. Why? Because this movie gives you no characters to care about. I made the mistake of seeing this on HBO. You have been warned! Even if you got your money back, there'd still be almost 90 minutes of your life that you could never recover. "},{"Title":"There's no way around Brad Pitt, sorry","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With a much tighter script and serious re-editing, this could have made either a great political drama or a great action film - except for one thing, which ruins the film almost completely.Although virtually all the actors are miscast in their roles, most do what they can to make the film acceptable if not believable.Not so Brad Pitt. First, of course, there's the accent - a stand-up comedian's imitation of another stand-up comedian;s fake Irish brogue. Unbearable. Then there's that look - the Jame-Dean-wannabe lowered-head eye-brow-hooded glare that say's I'm young and in despair because Daddie's weak or run-off or dead or just doesn't like me (Daddie's dead in this one). Then there's the evident fact that Pitt hasn't read the script nor paid attention to the director's stage-blocking, and so doesn't know what he's supposed to be doing most of the time - and doesn't seem to care.Doesn't director Pakula know what's going on here? He couldn't put his foot down and tell the studio bounce Pitt out of my movie, he's ruining it! - was the money that good and his artistic integrity so meaningless? Could he not at least have insisted on a pseudonym credit? Anything to get out from having to take the blame for Pitt's bottom-of-the-barrel worst-performance-in-a-major-film-since-John-Wayne-in-The-Conqueror hack-job? Really, I have never seen an actor so ruin an obviously expensive Hollywood film. The producers clearly intended this as a tax write-off.I kept thinking of Sean Patrick Flanery and Norman Reedus in The Boondock Saints - whatever you think of that film, there's certainly no question but these two young men gave lively performances in it - and with excellent (or at least believable) Irish-American accents. I suppose they were busy when Devil's Own was being made. (Both could use better agents, BTW, they haven't worked in films worthy of their potentials for a while.) Well, Hollywood just keeps flushing its wealth down the toilet. By now everyone should know that Spiderman 3, despite its record breaking opening week, is predicted to only break even in actual box-office -m but then, what jack-ass producer really thought he could get away with scamming investments totaling more than $300,000,000 for simple comic-book? I mention that because it is so glaringly obvious - and so typical of the Hollywood group-think that has so spoiled potentially good films like Spiderman 3, like The Conqueror, like The Devil's Own.The points here are for the cinematography and the effort of the non-Pitt actors. Everyone else connected with this film ought to be ashamed. "}{"Title":"A Good Story Could Have Been Better","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Many of those who have rated the film seem to focus on the politics involved, including one Scot reviewer who brands the Irish as common criminals. Please. Some of us in America who suffered through generations of white Southerners' self-serving propaganda and lies concerning Black Americans and their struggles for freedom are well aware of generations of British self-serving propaganda and lies concerning the Irish and their struggles for freedom. And at the heart of both is a self-anointed superior group from its position of power relentlessly imposing its will and plantations on an inferior group, and thereby creating the very things it ridicules. As an Irish-American, I see in the Orangemen the same rabid hatred espoused by the Ku Klux Klan, and both were the consequence of British church-state colonialism. (And Scots were among those planted in Ireland to supplant the natives while the Brits were providing humanity the terror blueprint for today's Islamic extremists.) After over 400 years, you'd think enough would be enough. For those who know history, it definitely is.This particular movie, while not great, does present an interesting story of a young Irish member of the IRA on a weapon-buying mission in New York City confronted by a seasoned Irish-American member of the New York City police - during the 1990s. Unlike in Belfast, in New York the Irish ARE the police; there are centuries of history and family in both men's stories. Each now has their own mission objectives, and they are diametrically opposed. Thanks to centuries of British propaganda, the IRA man is a terrorist in America, and the New York cop must therefore regard him as a dangerous threat. Each man remains true to his character, his culture, his heritage and his sense of responsibility. One wins, and one loses, but there is no victory for either. Men of integrity do their jobs, do what is expected of them, for a higher purpose.Both men pay the price; generations and environments and politics have taken their toll. Such has pretty much been the fate of Irishmen everywhere. (The Irish have been quite over-represented in America's police, fire, emergency, military and foreign intelligence services for well over 150 years, since the American Civil War. And, yes, Irish soldiers have often stood with British soldiers in common missions for the greater good.) As a very well educated life-long professional Irish-American soldier steeped in his own heritage and history with a half century of experience throughout the modern world, up close and personal, I know. Such things are never nearly as black and white as pontificating sideline sitters would prefer to imagine. Both men of character in the movie would have earned Melissa Etheridge's dead soldier dirge at the end, hearkening all the way back to Rome's Centurions. While the movie could have presented things better, I salute both men. The Devil's Own, and its ironies, are worth the experience, especially if you're a student of history. "},{"Title":"The Question","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Does the film draw and hold the viewer's attention? Granted, many of the criticisms have merit, and the fact that Pitt panned The Devil's Own before its release gives even more weight to them. Does plot integrity exist? No, the teller of the tale seems to have easily diverted to a Serpico-like subplot to justify one-too-many leading men. The film forces the audience to either keep its eyes open to avoid plot holes (and thus become cynics), or to close them and pretend that those holes really aren't that big (thereby suspending disbelief). Maybe too many Irish clichés? Yes, the wearin' o' the green theme never abates. Does plausibility take a backseat to expediency? Yes, in both plot and action.Still, it held together as a drama. You root for the good guys and hiss at the villains. Pitt's ability to affect the audience speaks to his acting ability. Harrison Ford comes across as, well, Harrison Ford, but then he's not the true protagonist. Still, his presence gives gravity to the moral dilemma of to rat, or not to rat. So, in answer to the original question, the answer is yes. "},{"Title":"think Ireland","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'll give The Devil's Own credit for showing the sorts of things that drove people to join the IRA. It succeeds in that regard. Otherwise it comes across as awkward. Although both Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford play their roles well, Pitt's accent is less than convincing (can't they just cast authentic Irish people?) and Ford seems like the wrong person to cast in this sort of movie. It's an OK movie, but Alan J. Pakula - best known for Klute, All the President's Men and Sophie's Choice - should have made a better one to end his career (he died in a car accident in 1998). Jim Sheridan's In the Name of the Father is one of the best movies looking at the situation in Northern Ireland.As for the current status quo in Northern Ireland, the Good Friday Agreement eased conditions there, but the Unionists continue treating the rest of the people horribly. In fact, the Presbyterian fundamentalists who run the country prevent marriage equality, making Northern Ireland the only polity in the British Isles without it. "},{"Title":"A small disappointment.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film tells the story of a young member of I.R.A. that, in order to buy missiles for the Irish terrorist organization, goes to New York undercover and settles in the house of a senior police. Directed by Alan J. Pakula (the last film of his career) and a screenplay by David Aaron Cohen adapting a story of Kevin Jarre, has Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford in the lead roles.This film is a little disappointment on several levels. Tries to be a thriller but the police are not exactly the good guys and lack suspense, tries to be an action movie but lack action, tries to be a drama but the screenplay is too lost and confused for that. Add to this is another detail the pious image that the film moves from the IRA, which cannot be the villain, despite making run blood throughout the film. Pitt, in particular, is a terrorist so good- looking and friendly that the terrible things that makes almost become forgivable due to his painful and traumatic past. Another negative detail is a deeply stereotyped and prejudiced image the film conveys the Irish. The accent of many of the actors is also bad, too loaded and unnatural. Nevertheless, the film has good things like the performance of Ford, very good at his role of veteran police with problems of conscience, or the central idea of ​​ the script a dangerous terrorist who want to buy weapons and hides in the home of a friendly and innocent American family.For the Irish who know well the problems of Ulster, the film will seem confusing and far from reality. Many Irish will even find ridiculous or insulting the way their nation and people are portrayed. Still, the film is not unpleasant, since we don't expects lots of action or suspense. "},{"Title":"The conflict in Ireland is mostly backdrop as this quickly turns into a second rate cop thriller","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Not a particularly great movie, I was expecting more from this actually as its a bit all over the place. It starts out well enough; shocking, in your face as Frankie's Da is murdered in front of him at the dinner table. Years later we meet Brad Pitt as the grown up Frankie, leader of an Irish terrorist group.There is a big action scene (Hollywood's version of the Troubles) then Pitt escapes to New York, living under an assumed name as he goes about buying a shipment of arms to take back to Ireland. Rory has ties to a politician who sets him up as a border with Tom O'Meara, (Harrison Ford) a noble cop and family man who eventually learns the truth about his lodger.The conflict in Ireland is mostly backdrop here as this movie quickly turns into a second rate cop thriller. Its pretty slow going actually. Brad Pitt muddles his way through with a (surprisingly) dodgy Irish accent and some goofy action, shootout scenes. I will admit to actually enjoying Harrison Ford though, the first time we see him he has a big smile on his face and remains a nice guy which is in such contrast to the grumpy old man we continually see from him nowadays.There is some suggestion of a father/son bond developing between Tom and Rory, a badly executed subplot with Treat Williams as the nasty arms dealer, a romance angle (Natascha McElhone) that goes nowhere and an issue with Tom's cop partner going bad. I did enjoy the ending on the boat, a fair amount of feeling there despite the fact that they'd just shot each other. 7/28/15 Don't look for happy endings Tom, its not an American story, its an Irish one. "},{"Title":"Devil Gets Owned.","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Devil's Own (1997) Dir Alan J. Pacula / Cast Harrison Ford, Brad Pitt, Ruben Blades, Treat Williams, Margaret Colin Film regards the sin we bring into the lives of others. In 1972 Northern Ireland a family prays around the dinner table before a masked man enters and shoots the father dead. Now a grown Brad Pitt will stay in the home of a cop where he stashes cash. The masked men eventually come looking for it leaving the cop demanding answers. Director Alan J. Pakula's final film and unfortunately a dud. To his credit are more compelling films such as All the President's Men and Klute. Harrison Ford stars as the cop hates using a gun and prefers no fatalities. A big flaw regards central characters involved in separate plots. Ford's on duty police work seems routine and unnecessary whereas Brad Pitt is given background and reason for his struggle for survival. In the end it comes down to a mindless shootout that undermines any message. Ruben Blades is cast as Ford's partner who at one point uses a gun, but the role could have been broader. Treat Williams as a villain is laughable and about as lively as a stick figure drawn on a wall. Margaret Colin plays Ford's wife but she is merely a background piece. It attempts to present a theme that regards vengeance and upholding justice but this misfires when the third act fires up. Instead it looks like an episodic crime show. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Works well in many ways, a good movie.","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Purely on an entertainment level, I enjoyed it completely. It's not too long or boring, it maintains good pace and suspense and the acting is fine. I don't even find the Irish accents annoying. It isn't the best movie ever either, but it's a damn sight better than the (slightly) higher IMDb-rated Ford movies Crystal Skull (terrible second-half), Sabrina (bad) and Cowboys & Aliens (absolute drivel). If you are put-off watching it because you don't want to sully you opinions of the two lead stars then don't be! The soundtrack is good too. The worst thing about it for me was that they cast Arthur Dent as the English villain who was out to kill Pitt. Surely all he really needed was a nice cup of tea. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Forget the 'truth' of the Irish problem.Just enjoy the movie on an 'as is' basis.Brad Pitt rarely puts in a 'performance'. Happily neither he nor Harrisson Ford are playing a 'star' in this cops and terrorists caper.Stay at the level of the director's pitch of the movie. Enjoy the plot, the nuances of the characters, the interplay of the characters.And at an enjoyable level without any 'highbrow' attitude.The dialogues are straight, to the point and stick to the story line.This movie is great to 'pass the time' and still commendable for 'decent performances from good actors'. "},{"Title":"Worth checking out at least once","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A thriller about an IRA gunman (Brad Pitt) who draws an American family into the crossfire of terrorism. Frankie McGuire is one of the IRA's deadliest assassins. But when he is sent to the U.S. to buy weapons, Frankie is housed with the family of Tom O'Meara, a New York cop (Harrison Ford) who knows nothing about Frankie's real identity. Ford last appeared in a movie two years before this one in 1995's Sabrina (one of Ford's few financial flops) a remake of the 1954 film with its trio of stars, Audrey Hepburn, Humphrey Bogart, and William Holden. Before that he'd been on a good run with The two Jack Ryan movies (Patriot Games and Clear and Preset Danger) and The Fugitive. Whilst Brad Pitt was starting to become the Mega Star he is hitting home runs with roles in Interview With A Vampire, Legends Of The Fall, Seven, 12 Monkeys and Sleepers.You can see what attracted the stars to the movie as the premise is a good one, however once Ford was cast, it was decided to rewrite the script to make his character more central and the script wasn't finished when they started shooting. Ego clashes, budget overruns and long delays saw Pitt tried to walk away from the project. He settled for denouncing the movie as the most irresponsible bit of film making &#x96; if you can even call it that &#x96; that I've ever seen. Upon it's release. The movies ending was reshot two days before it's release too.As expected Ford and Pitt are the best things in this movie, and the parts where this movie works is because of them. It's a shame this was the last movie of Alan Jay Pakula because I like his work as a Director. Be it Klute, All The Presidents Men or Starting Over and Sophie's Choice he showed himself to be a good director. Worth checking out at least once "},{"Title":"had potential but loses its way","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The latest IRA operation has been a failure and they suspect a setup. Frankie McGuire (Brad Pitt) is an IRA gunman who barely escaped from the battle, and is sent to America with an alternate identity Rory Devaney. Frankie is housed with NY cop Tom O'Meara (Harrison Ford) and his family (Margaret Colin, Julia Stiles...) who don't know Frankie's true identity. The two men slowly develops a friendship until Tom starts to suspect something's wrong with the newcomer.The movie attempts to be a profound examination of loyalties in the Irish conflict. It just does it poorly despite the best efforts of the two leading men. The movie is well known for its troubled production and there's a chance that I've been influenced by it. After an exciting shoot-em-up battle in Northern Ireland, the story rambles on and on as we wait for something dramatic to happen. The dialog is lifeless and bland. The tension fades away until I don't really care about the characters even when something actually starts to happen. "}{"Title":"Ultimately a Waste of Two Great Actors!","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Devil's Own is very much a mixed bag for me. There are some really good things about it, but others that are off the mark to counterbalance them. It has great actors, although some are regrettably miscast. The beginning and ending were quite exciting (especially the beginning) but the middle portion really dragged it down.The movie starts out with an Irish kid named Frankie and his family at a dinner table. A gunman then comes in and kills Frankie's father right in front of him. Then it cuts to many years later. Frankie has grown into a grown man played by Brad Pitt. He is an ex-Irish republican army soldier. He defected and has started a war to change the system there. However, after a big shootout with the military he is forced to flee to America on a boat with a load of cash on hand. Frankie intends to purchase a stock of missiles from an underground dealer named Billy Burke, played by Treat Williams. While there arranges to stay at the home of a cop named Tom O'Meara (Harrison Ford) and his family. Tom eventually finds out who he really is and now the hunt is on.As I said before the movie has a very strong start. With the scene of Frankie's father getting shot and the firefight right after I was thinking that this would be a very deep and action-packed crime drama. Harrison Ford gives a great performance as always. Tom's interaction with Frankie is the highlight of the movie. The ending was also good with Tom finding out who Frankie is and their ideals clash.Tom is very much a boy scout who believes in the system. He believes that criminals should be locked up no matter what, but he also believes in second chances. He does not like to kill or even lie because he thinks it is a betrayal of his position as a cop and his values. It is very black and white for him. Frankie believes that the only way to change things you have to step over the moral line and get your hands dirty. Frankie sees the world in shades of gray. I really liked seeing those to conflicting personalities go at it. I also like that Tom and Frankie had become friends throughout the film and they do not want to kill each other, but their conflicting ideals propel them to. That is great stuff.However, there are issues with the film and they are major sadly. Firstly Brad Pitt was horribly cast in this film. He is a good actor but he just did not fit the part. Frankie is supposed to be Irish. Why did they not get an Irish actor? Brad Pitt is not Irish and nothing is worse than American actors trying to play a character with an accent. His accent is incredibly forced and I could hardly understand him most of the time. Brad Pitt is just cast because he is a big name and nothing else.There is also a sub-villain placed at the end of the middle portion named Billy Burke. He is incredibly bland and pointless. He is basically there to extend the running time.Lastly the middle portion of the film is what really brought the film down. The film started off running then suddenly halted to a slow crawl. The middle is painfully slow and is basically just filler. Nearly half of this movie is filler. After Frankie meets Tom and the family the next forty to fifty minutes is dedicated to Tom going on police jobs that are unrelated to the main plot, Tom's family and Frankie's interaction with them. Every now and then it goes back to the main plot a bit by having Frankie meet with his friend, his girlfriend and Billy the sub-villain. However, those meetings are brief and do not go very far. In short, the plot moves at the speed of molasses.On top of that, the film's tone shifts during the middle portion. With a title like the Devil's Own I expected it to be a very deep and dark film. The film starts out dark and the ending is fairly dark, but the middle is not that dark, at least by comparison. It felt like I stepped into another movie.The only good aspect about the middle is the interaction between Tom and Frankie. Even though Brad Pitt was a bad casting choice Frankie is still a good character and the way he interacts with Tom is pretty good.Overall, Devil's Own does have some good aspects like Harrison Ford, the beginning and ending, and the interaction between Tom and Frankie. However, the middle is a bore, Brad Pitt is a bad casting choice, Tom's family is not that interesting at all, and the sub-villain, Billy Burke, was lame and unneeded. It is not horrible but there are definitely better crime dramas out there. I would have to say skip this one. "},{"Title":"Considering the nature of the movie, and the potential it has, this should have been much better","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With a title like The Devil's Own (even though I have no clue what that means exactly), and an ideal pairing of Ford and Pitt, there's no reason this movie has to be so flat. Some of it is interesting, no doubt, but it doesn't really go anywhere. I expected Brad Pitt's character to be more troubled and mean-spirited. This guy's too calm for the character to really ring true. and Ford's performance isn't anything special, either. I could have done without Pitt's accent, and anything or anyone Irish for that matter, as I have no interest in foreign countries anyways. Treat Williams is supposed to be playing a creep, but I didn't find anything creepy about the role. Except for an interesting ending on a boat, this film doesn't add up to much.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford unknowingly harbors IRA-man Brad Pitt in his house","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In The Devil's Own, it is 1992 and Brad Pitt belongs to the provisional IRA, the main successor group to the IRA. His group historically and in the movie directs violent action against the British still in Ireland, with the goal of uniting northern Ireland completely with Ireland. Since the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, the six counties are largely self-governing, but the movie is set before that time.Pitt is in America seeking Stinger missiles in the black market. The dealer is Treat Williams. He is innocently being housed by a cop (Harrison Ford) who thinks it is simply for a friend of his in the Irish community.The core plot revolves around Pitt's dealings with Williams, which go sour when Pitt is forced to delay payment. This leads to an attack on the home of Ford, who then learns of Pitt's real identity. By then, Pitt has been accepted into Ford's close family life. Ford's dilemma is that he feels obligated to arrest Pitt, whom he has come to like and understand. But finding and arresting him will lead to violence, probable assassination at the hands of a British intelligence operative now in America, and certain death if he is arrested and shipped to the UK for a trial.The film's problems are not in the acting. Ford and Pitt are among Hollywood's top actors, and they bring off their roles convincingly. Also, Treat Williams adds the element of brutality to spice up the show. The problem is the presence of extraneous scenes that build up Ford's home life and his non-violent nature as a policeman, and this includes a sub-plot involving his partner (Reuben Blades). All of this delays the main action involving Pitt until about 1 hour into the film. This slows the film into a presentation of clichés and character-building scenes that do not advance the plot. The story or the screenplay are the main negatives of the movie. Once past the 1 hour mark, the movie proceeds much better into a reasonably satisfying psychological and actual conflict between Ford and Pitt.The damage has been done, however. The writers failed quite badly at an imaginative rendering of the possibilities of the skeletal plot. Ford vs. himself and Ford vs. Pitt are the two elements that needed to be built up much sooner. We did not need much of what was instead shown, and we did need more action oriented around these two men.The result is a pretty much average movie, which means it's not bad but neither is it something really good either. It has its good moments and scenes, but it also drags and goes off on tangents at times. "},{"Title":"The IRA Versus The NYPD","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Harrison Ford & Brad Pitt terrorist thriller The Devil's Own features New York cops, British assassins, IRA gunmen, and examples of modern-day intimidation. Nevertheless, it remains as old-fashioned and predictable as any episode of the western television classic Gunsmoke. Veteran filmmaker Alan J. Pakula, whose credits include Presumed Innocent (1990) and The Pelican Brief (1994), has crafted a serious, above-average, tight-lipped melodrama that buckles more often than it should but delivers an attractive cast in a handsome actioneer. V.I. Warshawski scribe David Aaron Cohen, and Family Business scenarist Vincent Patrick and Tombstone writer Kevin Jarre collaborated on a screenplay that constitutes sheer hokum of an inspirational sort. Although the film sports a laugh or two, The Devil's Own emerges as a dark, tragic saga that Godfather lenser Gordon Willis has enhanced with his moody Rembrandt lighting. Brad Pitt is suitably cast as an Irish Republican Army gunman named Rory Devaney. When he was a lad, Rory saw merciless British gunmen gun down his dad at the supper table. He still lives with this bitter memory. He has grown up and become a ruthless killer who the British are prepared to track the earth to liquidate. The ever dependable Harrison Ford shows up later as Tom O'Meara, an honest Irish-American career cop with a wife, Sheila O'Meara (Margaret Colin of Independence Day) and two daughters. A highly situated IRA sympathizer smuggles Roy into New York City on fake passports and obtains room and board for him in O'Meara's happy domicile. Naturally, Tom doesn't have a clue about Roy's notorious identity. He believes Rory is a construction worker. What O'Meara learns in one devastating betrayal after another is that Rory has come to America to buy surface-to-air missiles to be used against the British. When Tom learns the truth and finds himself pitted against Rory, the reality of the predicament takes on a deeper meaning for him. Meanwhile, Rory encounters Billy Burke (Treat Williams of Hair) and his bunch of ham-fisted thugs who don't share his dedication to the cause. They simply want their loot for the contraband missiles that they have purchased for Rory. Burke makes the fatal mistake of double-crossing Rory.Although we want to believe that all lawmen are as dedicated as Ford's Tom O'Meara, our hero here seems incredibly saintly, a reincarnation of Dodge City Marshall Matt Dillon for the 1990s who turns shoplifters loose after catching them red-handed with the goods. When our hero's partner Edwin Diaz (well played by Ruben Blades) shoots a thief who had discarded his gun, O'Meara refuses to lie on his behalf. Afterward, O'Meara confides to Sheila that he cannot go on being a cop because of the shooting incident. O'Meara possesses principles that are far beyond believable.If Pakula and company err in over sanctifying Ford's straightforward N.Y.P.D. cop, they miss the boat completely with Pitt's renegade gunsel. While he is battling it out with British troops in blood-splattered Ireland, the Rory Devaney character is appropriately vicious. Once he reaches America, Roy treads somewhere between a hard-bitten villain and a tragic victim who constantly cradles Ford's youngest daughter. All of which dilutes the visceral turbulence that the filmmakers do such a good job of stirring up but never resolving. Hollywood used to steer clear of hot-potato political issues, but The Devil's Own appears to weigh its scales of cinematic justice in favor of the underdog IRA. Indeed, this Columbia Pictures Release is a movie with an Irish ending. The British come off looking more villainous than anybody else. Happily, The Devils' Own is not the botched film that Pitt has proclaimed in the press. While the movie ripples with violence, the violence here is used to decide who is morally culpable in a less-than-perfect world. The strategy that the filmmakers used in the final shoot-out to get you to bite your fingernails is well-staged but hopelessly heavy-handed.Men will show up for the shoot-outs, especially in the early parts of the action, while women may find themselves swooning over Pitt and Ford. Ultimately, The Devil's Own is an entertaining but pretentious load of nonsense that looks terrific on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Hypothetical and Moral Imperatives.","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Reuben Blades is the good-natured but fallible cop who is the friend and partner of officer Harrison Ford on the NYPD. The minute he showed up on screen I figured he was toast.The instrument of Blades' demise is Brad Pitt. Pitt is an IRA agent visiting the US to buy some guns and rockets from the ruthless entrepreneur Treat Williams. Pitt is a nice-looking, clean-shaven young man who finds room and board with Ford's accommodating family. Pitt, harboring a pustular hatred because of some politically caused childhood trauma, is gradually drawn into the peaceful life of Ford's household. They have a couple of lovely kids, say grace before meals, go to the same church as Pitt. They're Irish-American too. The only thing is that they haven't witnessed the suffering that Pitt has on the Auld Sod.It's really Pitt's movie. Harrison Ford cheats a little to save his partner's pension but is otherwise stalwart in upholding the law. Pitt, on the other hand, becomes a man of divided allegiances. He admires and respects Ford and his life style. He doesn't want the family to get into trouble. Yet here is Pitt, hiding a fortune in dollars under the floor of Ford's bathroom, about to buy guns so that the killing in Ireland can go on. The moral act, the moral imperative, is to reject the killing and embrace the warmth of family life. The hypothetical imperative is to complete his mission, smuggle the guns back into Ireland, and garner the accolades that are earned by heroes of the movement. That's not a moral act but it lays out what's in it for Pitt.I don't really want to get into it, partly because Immanuel Kant is complicated, partly because space is limited, and partly because I'm not sure I know what the hell I'm talking about. But my understanding is that you can determine whether a course is moral or not by asking what would happen if everyone followed it. Obviously, in this instance, the bloodshed in Ireland stops if Pitt overcomes his personal desire for revenge and stops shedding blood.The conflict and the final shoot out -- among several violent shoot outs -- is inevitable. And the confrontation involves more than just an uptight cop and a reckless revolutionary.The writers, of course, don't want to alienate those Irish-American viewers who are in thrall to what sociologists have called the new ethnicity -- a fiercely sentimental attachment to origins they know little about -- so they have Pitt explain (twice) that, It's not an American problem; it's an Irish problem. Whatever that means.As Ford's wife, Margaret Colin is pretty and nurturing looking. Ford himself, looking old enough to have spent twenty-four years on the police force, isn't any more expressive than he usually is. He's not a bravura performer. He's reliable. Brad Pitt gives an absorbing and likable performance -- a quiet, appreciative, thoughtful, reckless revolutionary maniac -- who brings some unexpected touches to the role. He has more range than I'd been giving him credit for, although he can still turn in a wincingly wrong performance, as in Seven. I've always admired Treat Williams's performances in a low-key way. He's been pretty good in some roles, like Prince of the City, but I think his career has been knee-capped by his having a voice that isn't strong, and that sounds so natural that it seems he's not really able to enact a role. "},{"Title":"The Devil's Own","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" From Alan J. Pakula (All the President's Men, Sophie's Choice), his last film before his death, I saw the trailer for this, and even knowing it was two stars I still wanted to try it. Basically wanted top Northen Ireland IRA terrorist Francis 'Frankie' Austin McGuire (Brad Pitt) escapes to New York to continue his weapons-buying mission. With the support of a judge Peter Fitzsimmons (George Hearn), under the name Rory Devaney, Frankie begins living with Irish-American cop Tom O'Meara (Harrison Ford) and his family. Tom and his family are warming to the new lodger as if he was part of the family, little knowing that he is dealing in weapons with Billy Burke (Treat Williams). While Tom is having to cover up for mistakes his partner Edwin Diaz (Rubén Blades) is making, but of course his situation gets even worse when suspects and eventually finds out Rory's real identity. I missed the last ten minutes, but from the trailer I saw it was Tom doing something with Frankie's partner Megan Doherty (Natascha McElhone) and bringing him in. Also starring Independence Day's Margaret Colin as Sheila O'Meara, Liar Liar's Mitchell 'Mitch' Ryan as Chief Jim Kelly, young Julia Stiles as Bridget O'Meara and David O'Hara as Martin MacDuf. I can see little reasons for the film needed a bit more work, and apparently there were production problems like script changes and Pitt wanting to quit, but I found some of it quite interesting viewing, so it isn't a complete waste of time. Okay! "},{"Title":"Inherently weak","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First problem with this film The director. Alan Pakula specializes in courtroom dramas, he has little expertise in conducting action films, and has demonstrated his limited knowledge of both Ireland and the IRA. Second problem Harrison Ford reprises his Presumed Innocent/The Fugitive/Jack Ryan characters in one ugly mess. Third The entire Irish sequence is just a badly imitated version of every IRA film ever made. Moreover, the accents are awful, and the scenes grossly unbelievable (which would be alright if they were only entertaining). Since there were few Irish people influencing this film, its blatant lack of realism does not come as a surprise. And after The Crying Game, probably the best Irish film of the 90s, (whose success Columbia pictures was obviously desparate to mimic), Devils own is a pale, easy to spot dummy. If I want to see a cheesy show about the NYPD arresting a black youth for stealing condoms, I'll watch one of the many cop/courtroom programs on network television. But if im in the mood for an authentic IRA thriller, i'll stick to Stephen Rea and Adrian Dunbar in Jordan's 1992 masterpiece.   "},{"Title":"Deserved better","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When a movie has at least three credited writers, and you know about some of the uncredited ones, it's probably in trouble, and certainly the last third showed where too many cooks spoiled the broth, as it were.  Still, up till then, I found this not only entertaining but thought-provoking, and I actually enjoyed this more than AIR FORCE ONE.  Harrison Ford is one of the most dependable actors around, and it was nice to see him in a role that wasn't larger than life.  He's presented with a moral dilemma, but a more complex one than he usually faces, and he handled it well.  Pitt is a better actor, in my opinion, than people give him credit for, and I thought he did fine here.  I even thought he did a convincing Irish accent (and I'm Irish-American), better than the German one he did in SEVEN YEARS IN TIBET. And the other actors were good, except for Treat Williams, who started out well but then relied on overacting.  All in all, this deserved better. "},{"Title":"Cast Saves The Film","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A movie about Irishmen,The Devil's Own is an action thriller that stars Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt together with Rubén Blades, Natascha McElhone, Julia Stiles and Treat Williams.This is about a policeman plays Good Samaritan to a visitor from Ireland, only to discover that he has a potentially deadly secret.This was the final film directed by Alan J. Pakula.Belfast-born Frankie McGuire saw his father gunned down by enemy soldiers at the age of eight, and when he grew up he joined the Irish Republican Army, determined that one day his father's death would be avenged. An especially ruthless volunteer, Frankie is responsible for the death of 13 British soldiers and 11 policemen. After a particularly bloody battle, Frankie sails to the United States in a ragged tugboat he has restored; with a huge bundle of cash, Frankie intends to buy a stock of Stinger missiles from an underground arms dealer in America, Billy Burke. Upon arrival in New York, Frankie is met by a judge who is sympathetic to the IRA's cause and who arranges a place for him to stay. Using the name Rory Devaney, Frankie moves into the home of Tom O'Meara, a scrupulously honest cop. Tom is already in the midst of a personal crisis; his friend and partner Edwin Diaz recently shot a man that he knew was unarmed in the line of duty, and while Edwin wants Tom to help him cover up the matter, Tom's conscience will not allow it. When Tom begins to realize that Rory is not simply a man running from the violence of his homeland, he's torn between his sympathy for Frankie's tragic childhood and his desire to see justice served and prevent needless death in Ireland.Although it was it showed ignorance of the history of Northern Ireland and the issues involved are never mentioned,it becomes watchable to a degree due to the presence of Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt.Also,the story was somewhat formulaic,contrived and predictable. With Ford and Pitt,it would have been a disaster. "},{"Title":"Bad assessment of this movie","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The lead review of this movie is vastly unfair. Just because it is written by some one from Belfast who professes to know it all about such topics doesn't mean what he says is relevant for everybody. The fact is that there are interesting relationships between the characters here, you feel empathy for the terrorist character (Brad Pitt), and you feel the pain of Harrison Ford's NYC cop when he partner is killed. The FBI and BI people are in the movie for about 3 minutes -- how can any conclusions be drawn about them? I personally thought it was a tight thriller and it kept my interest the whole time. Ford and Pitt were excellent in their roles. Pitt, despite what the other bloke said, kept his accent quite well throughout. I am a journalist who looks objectively at such things as film and entertainment, I just thought the top review sold this movie way way short. "}{"Title":"BAD PITT!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After the Stephen Rea de You the Soldier's Wife and the Daniel Day Lewis of In the name of his/her Father eccoci again to affezzionarci to the deeds of a terrorist of the IRA. What a magic the Cinema! Of it The shade of the Devil the director Alan J. Pakula (that Ford hadalready directed in Presumed  Innocente ) as  you connect Jordan and Sheridan he introduces us the assassins of the IRA as of the victims of the system. But will it be this way? Is the good one in the film Harrison Ford obviously (you have ever seen him/it in role from bad?), the bad one (for which however all we make the thin typhus to exult when it kills a police officer) it is Brad Pitt. Pitt is a terrorist of the IRA named Frankie Maguire (is not calm it is not the brother of Jerry!), that goes to New York to buy some Missiles for his/her cause and high-ranked friendships they find a lodging to them to house of the police officer irlamdese Ford that lives with 4 women (don't treat him of Harem but of wife and 3 daughters). Pitt is introduced there to the beginning of the film to the usual child (you/he/she had already happened in Wind of Passions and Sleepers), to assist to the killing of his/her father, republican sympathizer, really while the family had been gathering to table. In a word it is for this scene that during the film we are kept to justify the slaughters of our hero.I end (is calm I don't tell you as it goes to end, rather I advise you to see him/it, for me the flims are go seen and to the Cinema above all) extrapolating a good-bad dialogue (Ford-Pitt) obviously become friends and legionaries from the usual drunkenness from Guinness (agreement as beer not as record). Brad to the police officer Harrison «You have ever killed someone?», answer. «In 23 years of career have shot 4 times ...e in air! And you?» Pitt responds, doesn't he/she answer rather (at all you/he/she would have been able to say 106 between danne and children!) telling the history of the killing of his/her father before to a child of 8. Mah? However three stars (of 5) and go to see him/it! You will be however on the thorns for good part of the film. "},{"Title":"Solid Thriller","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Before 9/11, the subject of terrorism was never approached with any real vigor or understanding. For the most part, terrorists functioned as masses of bad guys for the hero to blow away in any number of ways. The Devil's Own, a thriller heavily involving IRA terrorism, was made in 1997. Most likely this film wouldn't have been made post-9/11, and certainly not in the manner in which director Alan J. Pakula made it.Frankie McGuire (Brad Pitt) is a notorious IRA terrorist who has been assigned to go to the US to pick up some stinger missiles. While there, he is staying with a family man (who also happens to be a cop) named Tom O'Meara (Harrison Ford). But Frankie runs into trouble with the gunrunner he's buying the missiles from (Treat Williams), putting both the lives of Frankie and Tom & his family in jeopardy.The acting is solid. Harrison Ford has a pretty limited range, but when he's playing a role within that narrow window, he can be very effective. Tom O'Meara is not a complex part, and Ford is up to the task. There are certain similarities between Tom and President James Marshall from Air Force One, but never mind. I've never been a Brad Pitt fan, but I have to admit, he has more talent than just being able to keep the tabloids salivating over his every move. Frankie (known to Tom and his family as Rory Devaney) is a charming, handsome man, but he's not against showing his brutal nature when the situation arises. He's a nice guy, but he's also very dangerous; Pitt never lets us forget that. Treat Williams is miscast as Billy Burke, the gunrunner. He tries to bring menace to the character by being one of those pleasant villains (the kind who mask their capacatiy for violence with an easygoing attitude). However, Williams isn't able to exude much menace this way. Ruben Blades is unmemorable as Diaz, Tom's partner, but Natasha McElhone is terrific as Frankie's contact, Megan.The Devil's Own was the last film by Alan J. Pakula before he was killed in a tragic road accident. Pakula does does a solid job, although I have to question his handling of Frankie in the beginning. I've read some user reviews that claim that the film portrays IRA terrorists in a positive light, and doesn't do justice to the conflict. While I wouldn't go that far, I find some scenes rather unsettling because of concerns similar to this. Some of the scenes where Frankie and his cohort, Sean (Paul Ronan) are working on delivering the missiles are taken lightly, and are rather playful. This doesn't necessarily hurt the film (it builds sympathy for the character), but I think it was unwise to handle them in this way.For a mainstream thriller, The Devil's Own is not as formulaic as one might think (save for the ending). We're never quite sure how the film is going to end up. But it's not perfect. "},{"Title":"Kind of a complex review. Too much crammed and too little time.","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw The Devils Own last night and still am having a few thoughts cropping up about the film, I mean it is quite difficult to place into an action genre as there was not that much action for the film to start of with. I mean it kind of deals with subject of humanity and family from the view of a terrorist that has suffered great loss and faced hard-ship in Ireland but it fails to explore that on many levels and the film starts of well but starts dragging in the middle and just ends abruptly. It is dealing with a touchy subject of Nothern Ireland and the IRA so opinions are quite divided on that matter. Brad Pitt I guess don't the best he could with his part being part-time IRA and part time romancer, Harrison Ford well acted well but really it was more like a day in the life of kind of thing. To sum it up I would not call it a complete waste but this movie could of been a whole lot more , rather than an action movie or thriller we got a drama with a bit of action thrown in to keep the audience interested. THE DEVILS OWN - 6.7 OUT 10 FOR NOW THIS IS THE SHADOWMAN WISHING YOU GOOD NIGHT AND GOOD LUCK. "},{"Title":"I Could Only Long to be Put Through More Troubled Productions Like This One.","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Justice is the summation of all ethical responsibility, but there are conflicting slants on justice. This reality is at the heart of this ignorantly underrated and dismissed film, which meets just gently with The Troubles. Rather, it searches the sad natural history of violence and how individual and social variables shape our slants on it. This is a film of various different tensions in which nobody is unreservedly right or wrong. Characteristic of Pakula's films, The Devil's Own has a solemn, subdued atmosphere that mutely connotes magnitude and seriousness. Cinematographer Gordon Willis' inimitable use of light and dark is especially effective in a scene where Tom and Rory are caught in the sporadic lights of moving cars, a pertinent image for a story in which honor's moorland is so transitory.An Irish-American judge coordinates for Rory Devaney, an Irish rebel, to lodge in the suburban home of NYC police sergeant Tom O'Meara. This upright cop, his wife and their daughters haven't a clue as to Rory's real identity. While Rory is occupied obtaining Stinger missiles from Treat Williams' American gang boss, Rory discovers himself emotionally enticed by his host family's life. He hasn't known this sense of comfort and peace since childhood before his father was slain before his eyes by a British agent. As the arms deal plods on, ample time is left for the two men to connect, and for Rory to feel remorse facing Tom's morality and virtual pacifism.Meanwhile, Tom confronts the prime predicament of his career when his partner Ruben Blades shoots an unarmed offender in the back and then presumes upon him to suppress it. Tom chooses to retire. But before he can submit his badge, he's dragged into Rory's nightmare when it invades and terrorizes his home.Pitt and Ford give moving and realistic performances as two men whose fanatical dedication to justice puts them on a path to conflict. Instead of stressing epinephrine-boosting action sequences, Pakula fixes the film on the ethical clash between the resistance fighter and the unfaltering advocate of law and order. The action sequences are intermittent but vigorously ringing, with a premium put on the enduring formation of character. At an early stage of their growing personal rapport, Rory tells Tom, Don't look for a happy ending. It's not an American story. It's an Irish one. The two actors have remarkable pull on one another. When they're together on screen, you want to focus on both of them. They don't seek to trump one another, but to enforce one another's sincerity.The Devil's Own unmistakably seeks to build a father-son histrionic between Tom who has no sons and Rory, and it succeeds mainly since it never labors overmuch to labor on emphasis. Their relationship is relaxed and unaffected. A game of pool here, a snippet of conversation there. And Pakula counts on the actors to create a bond without turning to banal dialogue or unseemly bursts of emotion. These are two understated, strong-minded men who just appear to admire and enjoy one another. And when Pitt turns unreservedly cold-blooded when he's forced into a corner, Pitt gives him the disillusionment of a guy who can't meet the expense of a conscience. This point is that it's unfeasible to choose sides, a point distinctive for a Hollywood film, a battle between people whose virtues were decided by their circumstances.Naysayers called the plot incoherent, just a lot of moral grappling, not all of which relevant. Funny how they didn't say that about the character of Mike Yanagita in Fargo, for instance. It's as if it was new to critics that emotional associations with the plot we care about could be made by characters whose experiences outside that main plot course it's important we see first-hand with them to grasp their ethical arcs. "},{"Title":"The Devil had nothing to do with this","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" (Some Spoilers) Having just taken out about dozen British troops in a blotched ambush of his IRA comrades on the run IRA man Frankie McGuire, Brad Pitt, gets in contact with his American connection, in getting the hard pressed IRA much needed arms, Martin MacDuff, David O'Hara, who's now in hiding in the Northern Irish countryside.MacDuff is negotiating a deal with US arms smuggler Irish Billy Burke, Treat Williams, for shoulder held stinger missiles to use against the hated British who's helicopters are causing havoc among the IRA men in the field. It's now up to McGuire and his fellow IRA man and good friend Sean Phelan, Paul Ronan, to travel to New York City and pick up the missiles in exchange for a cool million dollars in US currency. Using the name of Rory Devaney Frankie is set up with a place to stay by fanatical IRA supporter as well as New York State Judge Peter Fitzsimmon, George Hearn, at the O'Meara house on Long Island. As it soon turns out, to Frankie's shock & surprise, the man of the O'Marea house is non other then the highly decorated New York City cop Sgt. Tom O'Meara, Harrison Ford!This very strange arrangement, by Judge Fitzsimmons, soon starts to develop cracks with the honest as the days long, and non-violent, Tom O'Marea starts to suspect that his new tenant, living in his basement, isn't exactly kosher in is looking for honest work, as a construction worker, in the big Apple. Frankie soon gets in deep trouble with his American arms dealer Billy Burke when his Irish connection back in the North of Ireland McDuff ends up getting killed in a raid on his safe-house by British troops and police.In him wanting to back out of the deal Burke has not only Frankie's landlord Tom O'Marea house raided and him and his wife Sheila, Margaret Colin, roughed up but also has Frankie's good friend Sean kidnapped by Burke's goons who after brutally working Sean over end up murdering him. It takes a while for Tom to finally realize who his tenant really is, by finding the bag of arms money he hid in his basement, but by then he's just as deep into this deadly IRA and arms dealing business as Frankie is.To make things even more interesting, as well as complicated, as they already are we also have Tom's cop partner Eddie Diaz, Ruben Blades, get involved in a shooting of a runaway car thief who was not only unarmed but had his back turned, while on the run, as he was gunned down in an alley. This has Eddie's extremely deeply upset partner Tom have to decide-in a King Solomon-like decision-to either turn evidence against his partner who can end up not only being canned from the NYPD but charged with 1st degree homicide at the very least! Or in the case if Tom decides to just keep his mouth shut he'll, an honest and law abiding citizen, have to live with it, in purposely covering up a crime, for the rest of his life.Even though the movie is under two hours in length it feels, in having to suffer through it, more like twenty. I have to say that the robot-like and stone-faced Harrison Ford gives one of his most emotional and moving performances, he even throws up a number of times, in the movie The Devil's Own of his entire film career. Brad Pitt's Irish accent is so alien to anyone who speaks and understands English that you have to have sub-titles-in English of curse- to understand exactly what he's saying in the movie!P.S The Devil's Own turned out to be director Alan J. Pakula last film. Pukula was killed in a freak accident on the Long Island Expressway on November 19, 1998 a year after The Devil's Own was released. "},{"Title":"The Devils Own A Good Action Drama With Some Flaws","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Devils Own is a good action drama with some flaws but the movie is saved by the exceptional performances by Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt as the two leads. Director Alan J. Pakula is admirable in making this movie about a police officer who unknowingly welcomes and bonds with an IRA terrorist who stays with them as a house guest. Ford is effective as the hero Tom O'Meara a dedicated cop because he's believable as the character and Brad Pitt is equally impressive as Frankie Maguire/Rory Devaney the IRA terrorist whose father was murdered before his eyes when he was a boy. The rest of the cast including Margaret Colin, Ruben Blades, Treat Williams, Julia Stiles, and Natascha McElhone in a brief appearance are good as the supporting characters but some of them lack screen time. All of them still turn in solid performances none the less. The movie maybe a bit light on action except for some but it does offer character development, drama, and a little suspense. The pacing was slow at times but the good outweighs the bad in this one. If you can get past the slow pace here and there then I'm sure you'll enjoy this movie. Overall despite its flaws, The Devil's Own is for the most part an entertaining action drama with an interesting premise, some character development, a little suspense, and great performances by the cast (especially Ford and Pitt) who make this film worth the time to watch. "},{"Title":"The movie, not the premise","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First - I'm going to comment on this movie, not it's relationship (or lack thereof) with real-world politics. That's okay - I didn't judge the 'Lethal Weapon' movies based upon their realistic portrayal of police work, either.IRA Terrorist, played by Brad Pitt, stays with a New York family played by Harrison Ford, Margaret Colin, a young Julia Stiles (!), and Ashley Carin. Harrison Ford plays a New York cop, Brad Pitt is in town to buy guns for the lads back home, and this plays out in a drama (not action) film that largely focuses on conflicts, personalities, tough decisions - pretty solid drama fare.The actors do a fine job, the story has enough subplots to keep the viewers interest on several levels, and as horrid as I've heard people claim the script is, it's believable - the movie shows people living one of the tough parts of life.The politics may be awful, the story may misrepresent what's really happening in Northern Ireland - but until the end credits run, you'll find yourself involved in their story.This is one I watch every 6 months or so, just to enjoy seeing a complex story well-told. "},{"Title":"It's a Hollywood movie, not an Irish one, after all","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  IRA gunman Frankie McGuire (Brad Pitt) goes to New York City with a new identity- 'Rory Devaney', that is. He stays with an Irish American family and is to purchase weapons there. The master of the family, Tom O'Meara (Harrison Ford), is an NYPD officer, with a sympathetic attitude but is never aware of McGuire's true identity. When that is revealed, O'Meara is determined to bring McGuire in.The only parts that really move me are the beginning when little Frankie watches his father shot dead by a loyalist paramilitary assassin in front of him and the rest of his family (which was typical in Northern Ireland in the 1970s)  while they are having dinner, and the full-length version (which is only available on the OST album. Crap film, but good song) of the theme song 'God be with You' by Dolores O'Riordan Burton. Apart from these, this is just another Hollywood flick, using the Troubles in Northern Ireland for 'seasoning'. I didn't feel that uncomfortable with Pitt's accent, as I've only been to Belfast once and though I met some locals but I was there for only a week. Well, thinking about it again, I come to realise that Pitt's accent is not all that authentic.This film focuses on the friendship between McGuire and O'Meara but the rest of the story is so typical Hollywood. I'd rather see something closer to the reality. Still, for someone who's not familiar with the Troubles or with the Belfast accents, this flick, to my mind, won't fail to serve certain entertainment value...but, I wouldn't want to use the word 'entertainment' for the Troubles (oops I just have!).           "},{"Title":"I liked this movie!","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I won't argue some of the criticisms that I'm reading in other people's reviews here -- but I really liked this movie. I thought that Pitt and Harrison (and most of the others)did some solid acting in this movie. And I actually thought the accents were pretty decent!The action scenes may not have been entirely plausible, but they still worked overall. I liked the relationship storyline/s, and the fact that not everything was perfect. And it wasn't all predictable.Good movie overall. I would recommend it.I like action movies, I also like good people story lines. I thought this movie contained both. Like a good, easily readable book. "},{"Title":"It Could've Been Worst","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bad script? Definitely. But Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford really looked like they gave their best efforts. The plot at times though dragged and even though I am a huge brad pitt fan, I can't say that I enjoyed this movie very much. Even at the high points, like the confrontation between Ford and Pitt's characters, I wasn't really pulled into it. The plot lacked direction. At first, when it comes in, you think it'll be a cool action flick but as the story goes on it seems like it should've been called, A Day in a Cop's Life. "}{"Title":"Interesting plot, great pace!","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's nothing better than watching a movie where you find an interesting plot brought to life by talented actors leaded by a competent director. That's what we have in The Devil's Own. Brad Pitt plays an Irish terrorist that goes to New York to buy weapons to supply his cause in his country. In the USA he pretends to be a policeman and is hosted by an honest cop, that is, as always, well played by Harrison Ford. His relation with his host turns into a great friendship. Some time later, however, the American man suspects his new friend might be dangerous.This is certainly an unforgettable thriller, one of those you just can't stopping watching. I don't know why I didn't see that at the cinema but I just couldn't lose the chance of seeing it when it came to satellite TV.My rate 8/10 "},{"Title":"Alan J. Pakula gets Brad Pitt's Irish up with Harrison Ford","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt star in this harrowing thriller about an IRA gunman who draws an American family into the crossfire of terrorism. Frankie McGuire (Pitt) is one of the IRA's deadliest assassins. But when he is sent to the U.S. to buy weapons, Frankie is housed with the family of Tom O'Meara (Ford), a New York cop who knows nothing about Frankie's real identity. Their surprising friendship, and Tom's growing suspicions, force Frankie to choose between the promise of peace or a lifetime of murder, according to the film's official synopsis.It would probably surprise many Europeans to learn that most Americans, despite our strong Irish and English connections, have no real attachment to the conflicts in the United Kingdom. Nobody in the Irish part of my family was able to tell me what sides our heritage would suggest we sympathize with - but, we all have opinions about Middle Eastern conflicts, and no cultural connections. The Devil's Own is very successful at acknowledging this fact - both directly (e.g., the early car conversation) and indirectly (e.g., the corned beef and cabbage meal).So, the premise was set, and it was a good one. But, the film doesn't quite work. From the beginning, the focus is on Mr. Pitt, with his cycle of violence motivations depicted very well. But, there is no corresponding setup for Mr. Ford's character; and, this is where the audience is coming from. Moreover, Pitt and Ford never truly connect, on film; merely, they look like two big movie stars acting alongside each other. Pitt performs well, but when his character arrives in New York, the film becomes an Irish Spring soap commercial. Pitt's hairdo is blindsiding.Accomplished director Alan J. Pakula, in his last film, could not have found it easy corralling Irish-accented Pitt, a diminished Ford, studio execs, and a rotating team of re-writers into making The Devil's Own a worthy last film (he died in a car accident in 1998). Mr. Pakula, who worked on several film classics, manages to get some good shots in, though; and, his scenes with Pitt and Treat Williams (as Billy Burke) are highlights.Retired cinematographer Gordon Willis, who picked up a belated Academy Award in 2009, strengthens the picture's streetwise look considerably. Veterans George Hearn (from Broadway), Mitchell Ryan (from Dark Shadows) join newcomers Natascha McElhone (from across the pond) and Ruben Blades (from south of the border) to give it a strong supporting cast. The film's strengths slightly top its weaknesses.****** The Devil's Own (3/13/97) Alan J. Pakula ~ Brad Pitt, Harrison Ford, Treat Williams, Natascha McElhone "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Enough Film, With An Above Average Story, And Fantastic Performances, However Brad Pitt's Irish Accent Is God Awful!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an enjoyable enough film, with an above average story, and fantastic performances, however Brad Pitt's Irish accent is god awful!. All the characters are good, and it has some good emotional moments as well, plus Harrison Ford is simply amazing in this!, and Brad Pitt is fantastic!(except for the accent). It has some very good action scenes, and Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt, had pretty good chemistry together too, plus the ending was quite good and somewhat emotional. While it's a good film it could have been a lot better, however it is quite tense at times, and i enjoyed it for what it is, plus it had a great cast as well!. Apparently Ford and Brad Pitt, didn't get along well on the set, they could have fooled me, cause they seemed comfortable with each other, and had great chemistry together, plus Natascha McElhone was especially excellent in her role here!. The character development was good, and all the characters were likable, plus the finale was good. This is an enjoyable enough film, with an above average story and fantastic performances, however Brad Pitt's Irish accent is god awful!, well worth the watch!. The Direction is good. Alan J. Pakula does a good job here, with cool camera work, great angles, and he kept the film at a fast pace. The Acting is fantastic!. Harrison Ford is amazing as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, fantastic in the acting department, had a really cool character, had great chemistry with Pitt, had some great emotional scenes, and as always was very intense, he was amazing!. (Ford Rules!!!!!!). Brad Pitt is fantastic here,and the only flaw he had was that god awful Irish accent, he had a cool character, had great chemistry with Ford, and i felt sorry for his character, he was fantastic! (Pitt Rules!). Rubén Blades is okay but i'm not a huge fan of his, and he didn't have much to do as Ford's partner. Natascha McElhone is beautiful and did excellent with what she had to do i loved her. Mitch Ryan is wasted here, and does an adequate job at best. Treat Williams is great here, he was quite menacing and did what he had to do well. Julia Stiles( Older Daughter),Kelly Singer(Youngest) Margaret Colin(Wife) all do well. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall well worth the watch!. *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brad Pitt & Harrison Ford both star in this story of an IRA terrorist (Pitt) who hides out in NYC.  A NYC cop (Ford), unknowingly puts him up.  The consequences are not what he bargained for.  The filming of this movie supposedly was full of tension, with Ford & Pitt having different ideas of how it should be played.  That and the fact that it was written with very little finished script makes for less than the sum of the parts. "},{"Title":"A great movie with great acting","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At the time i wrote this, The devil's own stood a 5.7 average. which totally baffled me. Brad Pitt delivers a great perfomance as frankie MgGuire (I love his accent and Ford does not get behind. Some great scenes with the irish folk music and the overall score is good.Their may be some over sentimental moments, but they did not bother me for a second. then why such a low average? I'm clueless...I would say this is a movie almost anyone will enjoy! I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful movie, great acting! It surprises me that this movie has a very low rating, because I think it is very much worth watching! Great acting from Ford and Pitt! Besides that I think this movie let's a person understand what it is like to be an Irish person, what it feels like if your country is in a war. It shows respect for a young guy who is trying to do something for his country (and if that country would be the USA the ratings for this movie would be a lot higher I think). "},{"Title":"Brad's own...No Harrison's...No Brad's...","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Certs used to have a commercial where they said It's a breath mint! No it's a candy mint! Certs is two! Two! Two mints in one! And that's what you get here, two movies for the price of one with two leading men who each deserved a script of their own. The best and worst parts of the movie happen within the first 10 minutes. You're immediately & emotionally drawn in. But suddenly there are unrealistic shootouts that make the stars seem like superheroes instead of flesh and blood. This dual plot/dual treatment with dueling stars who sometimes seem tempted not to pull punches when hitting each other all detract from the film. But in the end, hodge-podge though it is, Ford & Pitt (or is that Pitt & Ford?) succeed in making it an entertaining movie...all of them! "},{"Title":"I thought a pretty good thriller","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" when i saw this film i wasn't sure what to say. first i am not Irish and i don't know exactly whats going on in northern ireland, but i thought the film was a pretty good thriller. first you have your normal plot of a guy, that comes to America to get guns but gets attach to the American family and then twists. i thought almost Brad Pitt gave a great performance and that the movie had a very basic storyline, easy to follow and i think people should watch this film if they are looking for a good thriller not anything political or amazing. Harrison Ford gives us one of his trademark performances. i think this film had a lot of problems making so it was pretty good for the problems "},{"Title":"Average film, over the top responses!","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is a typical Hollywood attempt to make a standard and fairly unoriginal thriller storyline into one with weight and political depth by involving the Northern Ireland issue as it backdrop. Ironically the film is stronger in the scenes where Ford is trying to come to terms with retirement and at times this subplot feels like scenes from a different film. Where the film struggles is rising above its origins as a conventional thriller. To be fair, apparently Pitt wanted to explore his characters political motivations but clashed with either the director or the studio about this. Although some would even call the film offensive for showing Pitts' IRA character as a human being, Pitt had actually intended him to be even more sympathetic than in the finished film. This was due to his research for the part where he found that, what may come as a surprise to some SHOCK, not all Irish republicans who picked up a weapon to defend their community were cold-blooded terrorists! It is true however that the film does tend to oversimplify and romanticise the republican cause and the Troubles in general but in a way that is more naive and silly rather than offensive and the notion that the IRA can be compared to Al-Qaeda is lazy, ignorant and completely misguided. In addition to this, does anyone complain when US soldiers who carry out atrocities in films be it good ones; Platoon, Full Metal Jacket or the awful ones; Rules of Engagement, Basic etc (not to mention in the real world e.g. the wonderfully picturesque Abu-Grayib prison) are portrayed as both flawed and human? Of course not, nor should they and Yes, I am comparing US soldiers with the IRA. In both cases many join up out of necessity- for US troops it is often simply because they need a job, for the IRA many joined in the time of Internment, Bloody Sunday and collusion murders. In both cases it also must be said that many join up to satisfy a power trip or even blood lust. By suggesting there are similarities between the two is not an attempt to justify any violence carried out in New York, London,Belfast or Fallujah but merely an attempt to show how important it is not to get too upset when a film, be it a misguided failure like the Devil's Own, or an original and intelligent film like the Crying Game, portrays an IRA man as a human being with genuine political motivations. For a quality films about Northern Ireland watch Bloody Sunday or Odd Man Out but try not to take The Devils Own too seriously as being offensive, at least not before comparing it to rubbish like of Patriot Games, Pearl Harbout, Collateral Damage or Rules Of Engagment! The US military has been portrayed as heroic despite their often horrible actions throughout the world, not least in the current climate, so why does everyone get upset when few and far between there is a sympathetic IRA character like Frankie McGuire? "},{"Title":"'Don't look for a happy ending, Tom. It's not an American story ... it's an Irish one.' <Pitt as Rory>","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, 'American' stories usually have a happy ending, I suppose. So, what's the real story here, in 'The Devil's Own?'  It isn't the fighting in N. Ireland, because that occupies only a small part of the movie. Nor is it the deal of cash for weapons, because that also occupies a small part of the story. It appears to be the relationship between Tom (Harrison Ford), the 55-yr-old NY cop, a 'by-the-book' cop, and this young visitor Rory (Brad Pitt) from Ireland, placed there through a request from an Irish-American judge. What makes this movie worth watching are the performances by Ford and Pitt. In spite of reports that both of them were disappointed with the movie itself, and Pitt wanted out, both of them deliver fine performances, proving once again why both are among the best working actors. The DVD, borrowed from my local public library, has a fine picture and Dolby 5.1 sound, but no extras save the trailer.SPOILERS follow, please read no further. Rory's father was gunned down at the family dinner table when he was only 8. For revenge he became an IRA fighter, wanted for murder of cops and military men, he flees to the USA with his fake name, the judge gives him millions in cash for a weapons deal, he lives in the basement of the cop's home, becomes a part of their family, bad guys break in looking for the money, Tom finds out who Rory really is, handcuffs him, bringing him for booking, traffic jam, escapes, shoots Tom's partner, goes into hiding, money locked in trunk, gets weapons anyway while killing his nemeses, loads fishing boat intending to sail to Ireland, Tom finds him, tries to arrest him again, they both shoot, Tom is wounded, Rory is mortally wounded, dies on boat, movie ends as boat makes a u-turn in bay.  "}{"Title":"Hard To Rate --- Flawed, But Ultimately Worth Watching","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this film on Netflix. That becomes important only when I say that I cut it off exactly halfway through and went to bed, muttering, ... Why can't they make this thing move a little faster?.I was disgusted with the slow pace, which just seemed to get ever slower as I watched.I am not talking about some guy-flick action-all-the-time reaction. The pacing really slowed to what was, to me, an intolerable crawl in mid-film, using anyone's definition. I was genuinely surprised that Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt would agree to star in such a dramatic plodder.But, days later, I fired it up on my computer again, vowing to plod through the remainder. Mere masochistic stubborness, I suppose.It never got up to a really quick pace from mid-flick on, but the emotional impact just knocked me over.This is a great film, taken as a whole.Be patient; let it play out.Negative reviews are here, some denigrating the lack of understanding of the Irish Troubles.They are wrong; this film does a better-than-average job of, at least, trying to depict the intricate complexity of modern-day Ireland and its Problem.Kudos to the whole crew.Watch this film, be patient, and you'll be rewarded for all time to come.I'm not overstating things. "},{"Title":"Has the potential of the explosive movie","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Released in 1997 The Devil's Own must have been a casting coup and highly anticipated movie. Going by today standards, the movie does indeed manage to hold your attention. The Brad Pitt's past (and IRA link) can be categorised as a sub-plot and can be extrapolated quite easily in today's times.The movie is slow but not painfully slow. Yes, it does manage to grab your attention. Performances are top-notch. Noteworthy are the scenes the two actors develop a rapport and honesty the movie seems to largely focused on it. Of course, one can easily make out what would happen in the end and therefore expect fireworks nothing short of Hiroshima & Nagasaki in the confrontation scenes. Sadly there is a letdown on that front. Coincidences shown in the movie (read that as cinematic liberties) could have avoided by better writing. Brad Pitt Very subtle performances, great body language and of course gets to mouth some good lines. And yes, he makes a sincere attempt for the Irish accent.Harrison Ford Dependable as usual.Natascha Gets hardly any screen space. Largely safe to say, the ladies had hardly anything to contribute.Not too bad for a one-time watch and if you mange to catch it on a telly, nothing like it. "},{"Title":"More than an Irish Tragedy","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The sad backdrop to this mostly well done movie is Ireland- a nation still divided by a history of strife. What makes it so intrinsically sad is the fruitless blood letting that had gone on for so many centuries. Maybe its the curse of CROMWELL or the tortured landscape that makes up this beleaguered isle. Its anybody's guess but it really is NO different than many other parts of this planet. Witness the current ravages of war in Sudan, Iraq or the Middle East as an entity. Then of course we can't forget Kosovo and other recent happenings of diabolical reprisal in other parts of Africa or southeast Asia. Be that as it may, the story was totally unsettling and beyond tragic. But then of course we are the only animal creation who have an unending history of destroying our own specie. One need only ask the question- why didn't God end creation on the 5th day? This movie offers no glimpse of an answer. "},{"Title":"A touching, moving, and absorbing film","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the most underrated movies of 1997.  I saw The Devil's Own later on in it's theater release to see a movie with my sister, and I was expecting your typical Hollywood thriller.  But I walked out of that theater really moved by what I had just seen.  The Devil's Own has some of the best acting ever portrayed by it's two leading actors, and directing by acclaimed late director Alan J. Pakula.   Harrison Ford looked and felt like he was a cop who had worked for twenty plus years in the force who was unwillingly thrown into an awkward situation.  And Brad Pitt, with his very authentic accent, also looked and felt like an Irish Republican whose life was torn by an early childhood incident that would impend his future tragic actions. When these two actors were in the same scene, you only wanted more of these scenes when they went through.  But what really moved the film was the story. The two main characters were so fleshed and rendered out in the film, that it made me want to know a lot more about them outside of the film as well.   To have seen what Harrison Ford's character was doing before the arrival of Brad's, to see how he ran his job and what his daily life was like.  Or to have seen what Brad's character would be doing if he had never met Harrison's character at the end, and instead gone away successfully. But what we got with the movie is fine enough, flawlessly directed by Alan J. Pakula.  He perfectly managed to fit in strong acting with a strong absorbing story, perfectly keeping its material away from all of the other Hollywood mainstream movies.  I'm not quite sure why this movie was so overlooked by the public.  Maybe it didn't have Harrison quoting his usual one-liners, or maybe it wasn't dark enough for the Brad Pitt fans, but either way I am glad to have seen it myself.  I have left this review virtually spoil free because I only hope that one day other people see this film and realize what a wonderful and moving film this was, from the late and great Alan J. Pakula. (RIP)  "},{"Title":"This is a moving and absorbing film with a world wide resonance.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film seems to have given rise to extreme reactions which can be understood given the very controversial subject. But it is a lovely film. It has gorgeous lead actors. Brad Pitt's accent sounds fine to us here in Asia and who cares anyway. His performance was very moving. His character seems perfectly in keeping with the background shown. Harrison Ford is utterly believable. It is a film which will be seen with interest around the world. Congratulations Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford for giving us so much pleasure on the screen.  "},{"Title":"I liked Brad's Nordie accent!!!  good film but sensitive issue","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An an Irishman myself i think Brad Pitt captured the Belfast accent very well. I mean it is very hard for an American to play an Irish role. Being born and raise in Ireland I must admit that the troubles up the north are always on the news and its a never ending struggle, weather your Catholic or Protestant... I enjoyed the film and I liked the storyline. It kept moving and it was very entertaining.I really liked the whole Irish in New York part of the film. Brad Pitt is in my opinion an up and coming star, he puts a lot of effort into his work and he should be credited for his acting. 'Snatch' is a prime example. He once again goes back to his Irishman role and gets the 'pikie' accent spot on. So fair play on the Irish accents. Harrison Ford plays the common role of a straight and clean cop. His partner is slightly crooked and his side of the story takes off. Then there is brad's part of the story who plays an IRA patriot and goes to America to buy weapons. The story is good and the acting is above average so in my opinion as a film lover and an Irishman the film was good. "},{"Title":"Action packed","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this may not have been one of Brad or Harrison's best movies I thought it was very good. First of all Brad was gorgeous and Harrison was wonderful. They are both very talented actors. Harrison has proven that he is at his best in almost any movie situation. And Brad keeps getting better. Although some people may have not been impressed by the accent I thought he did a very good job. I've heard a lot worse from other actors in past & present movies. "},{"Title":"Could have been better but very satisfying.","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While the plot was somewhat predictable the interplay between the characters was excellent.  I was drawn to Brad Pitt's character even though, I knew he was bound to create his own downfall.  Harrison Ford was himself and Margaret Colin was very believable as the female lead.  All in all a worthwhile effort.  "},{"Title":"Great Sad Moviet","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Devil's own is a heart felt Irish story, it twists you emotionally in a way that few films can. You connect with almost every character, and you grow to like them. With the arms dealer as the only exception, you hate him and thats a welcome feeling. Your glad to hate someone, because you spend the rest of the film hoping for a happy ending that will never and can never come.The main Character is a terrorist and a murderer, He is the perfect example of a decent person fighting for what he believe and you feel for him but you never lose sight of the fact that his fight is not noble at.Harrison Ford is awesome. Nuf said.Good Characteer study, Awesome movie, and I'm sad to say like most other Irish films. A total downer. "},{"Title":"Take It From Those That Know","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A quick survey of the reviews here, especially those from the United Kingdom and Ireland aren't exactly thrilled with the way the Irish troubles are presented. And it seems that nearly everybody doesn't like Brad Pitt's accent. I wonder what he did to prepare for the part. When he was in Sleepers playing an Assistant District Attorney, it was reported to me by friends who worked there that Brad spent some time just hanging around the Manhattan DA's office soaking up the atmosphere. It begs the question what he did and where he hung around to play Frankie McGuire, IRA terrorist.Well the truce is holding there as I write these words. We can certainly pray it stays that way. I've always felt that the dirty little secret of Ireland is that the Republic long ago accommodated itself to losing those six counties and rejoiced in the fact it was the United Kingdom that had to deal with the problems. Looking at it that way it does make for the fact that all the violence seems to have been for naught.But The Devil's Own does contain some universal truths. It's easy to make a terrorist if you've been through what Brad Pitt's character saw as a child. The Royal Ulster Constabulary could be every bit as nasty as the IRA was. Pitt saw his father shot down at the family dinner table as a child by masked gunmen. Knowing that we understand why he grew up the way he did. Grew up to become a most wanted person by the British.After barely escaping from a gun battle with the British officials, Pitt gets a mission to go to New York and negotiate a purchase for stinger missiles from gangster Treat Williams. His directions come from George Hearn, who's a wealthy Irish American businessman who sends the IRA money, but never puts his own life on the line.To keep his cover Hearn arranges for Pitt to stay with police sergeant Harrison Ford who is also of Irish background, but has no dealings at all with the politics of his ancestral home. Ford's a very upright and moral individual and he and Pitt form a bond that gets shattered when he finds out who he's opened his home to. Later on Pitt kills Ford's partner, Ruben Blades, during an escape and Ford takes it on himself to hunt him down.Despite an accent that is making real Irish people cringe, both Pitt and Ford give moving performances in the film. I didn't find the film taking particular sides in this except why should the troubles of Ireland be visited on Harrison Ford and his family. If there is a villain in this film, that title should go to George Hearn without a doubt.Friends tell me with the truce holding, the former IRA people finding little outlet for the skills acquired in terrorism now have gone into organized crime in a big way, especially in Belfast. It begs another question if Pitt survived to today, what might he be involved with now.Given people's firm opinions on Ireland, I doubt if it is possible to make an Irish story that will satisfy all points of view. The Devil's Own isn't, but it does make a few valid points and is entertaining as well. "}{"Title":"Embellished Thriller","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you find yourself in disagreement with the facts or presentation of the Irish troubles then this movie may not be up your alley in the first place. The idea is to sketch out a plausible connection between Irishness in Ireland and Irishness in New York. The authenticity of the IRA sequences is irrelevant to the plot of the film except to provide the motivation for an arms dealer to enter a peaceful American home.Although Pitt's accent isn't in the right lilt, it's one of the better fake accents I've heard. Harrison Ford has a nice scene where he is upset about a shooting that occurred earlier in the day. His emotion conveys a sense of loss not for what has happened, but for what he knows will happen.I would not expect non-American audiences to appreciate this film very much, it is somewhat specific to this culture. "},{"Title":"The accent thing... (again)","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've read a few of the fan reviews, and some I agree with while some I don't. But that just the way things go yeh?! Either way, my take on Brad Pitts accent is this...it's not too bad. It's not perfect, but I've heard worse. He's not native to this way of speaking, so even though he's an actor, allowances can and will be made. He hits the accent almost perfectly with some things, and at other times, a certain way he says a word or sentence reminds me of the movie Meet Joe Black when he was doing the Jamaican accent in the hospital. The thing with accents is, it seems to be ALL in how the listener perceives it. If I may break topic with this movie for a mo to illustrate? In the TV show ANGEL, the character 'Doyle', played by Glenn Quinn, spoke with an Irish accent. It was said, in SEVERAL posts, that his accent was FORCED. That it sounded fake. Thing of it is see, he was born in Dublin!! First 18 years of his life were spent in Ireland! So the way I see it, if Brads' accent wasn't perfect, as SOME people think it should have been, well...TOUGH! Even those who are FROM Ireland get shat on for not having a proper accent! There is simply no pleasing all people. If you like it? Great! If you don't? Get OVER it!! "},{"Title":"Not bad for a terrorist/cop buddy movie","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Brad Pitt plays an IRA fighter named Frankie who's come to America to get some weapons and is staying at the house of Tom, an Irish cop played by Harrison Ford who doesn't understand who his tenant really is. Pitt plays the IRA dude very sympathetically and i liked that. Too many Hollywood movies have turned into propaganda pieces for the govt in which anyone who stands up to the LAW is portrayed as a monster. And most American sheep accept that though the cop played by Ford in this flik realized it's not that simple.People laughed at Pitt's irish accent but at least you could understand him though i did get sick of hearing him tell Ford over and over, You're a good mon, toome.Good to see Natascha McElhone as Pitt's girlfriend. She played the stunning beauty in Solaris five or so years later. "},{"Title":"All the same, Mr. Fitzsimmoms, if you're not confused, you don't know what's going' on.","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It amazes me that people look at every film about political situations as if they should be documentaries. This is a film about the relationship between a New York cop (Harrison Ford), and an IRA terrorist (Brad Pitt) in the US to pick up weapons. It is not meant to be a polemic on the Irish situation.Ford plays a cop that cares about the law and about justice. His partner (Rubén Blades) shoots an unarmed teen and Ford actually is the one who gets sick. We are in the police business, not the revenge business, he tells him.Despite the fact that he has killed 20 men, Pitt comes off as his most lovable self. He fits in well with Ford's family.Things fall apart after the weapons deal is delayed and that's when the real action starts.Ford and Pitt were brilliant, although I hated the ending. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some would have you believe.","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A lot of commentators have criticised this film for not being an accurate portrayal of the situation and/or intricacies of the situation in Northern Ireland. I'm no expert and it goes without saying that this is probably the case; but that's not the point of this film and I don't think the director was really trying to say too much about it.The film is about the two main characters played by Pitt and Ford, both introduced in black and white and both of whose lifetime ideals and principles are challenged and blurred by their experiences through the film.We have Pitt, the hardened terrorist whose own father was murdered in front of him when he was a child, who's known nothing but hatred and a distrust of authority through his life and who's suddenly immersed into an alien environment of stability, family and a cop who he sees is both a pretty normal, hardworking and good guy. In this different environment he realises that there's more to life then what he's known and Ford becomes to him something of a father figure.At the same time, Ford a principled, honest as the day is long cop finds himself having to compromise his own integrity in the name of friendship and loyalty to a colleague as he realises life isn't quite so black and white as he's always lived it and struggles to deal with his own indiscretion.Consequently as he finds out more about Pitt he struggles to juggle his professional and personal judgement as he finds a degree of sympathy towards Pitt trying to understand his background and the inevitability of his circumstances. Naturally the two come to a head and in this regard the film is pretty good despite any shortcomings with regards to the accuracy of the Northern Ireland situation.Some of the film certainly appears a little far fetched in places and I'd suspect that it's not so easy to purchase a batch of Stinger missiles from the local small time mobster while the fate of Pitt's sidekick seemed little more than pointless. Sure this might not be award winning stuff, but I don't know why Pitt disowned this film and hope it wasn't done out of political correctness or being overly-sensitive to criticism (I'll settle for death threats).Enjoyable and entertaining thriller/action film that doesn't over do the action. "},{"Title":"This may not be the best film about the 6 counties...","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  But I think it's better than most are giving it credit for. I've actually studied the situation in the north quite extensively and while the movie is not 100% accurate it's not so far off the mark as to make it worthless. I actually find this film to have less inaccuracies than The Boxer which was made in Ireland. In short, I found the film to be enjoyable, not a history lesson. "},{"Title":"People are starting to get on my nerves!","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a movie, it is ONLY a movie! Those who are trashing this movie because it doesn't tell the true story of the IRA are just being ridiculous.The movie doesn't claim to be historically correct. Did Raiders of the Lost Ark claim to portray the Nazis accurately? No. Does Pirates of the Caribbean claim to portray the English accurately? No.It's just a movie. And an entertaining one at that. It's well paced with decent acting, Brad Pitt's accent aside. Ford is better than normal in this one. All characters deal with multiple issues and we get a real feel for how they might feel. It's action sequences are fine. There's just nothing really wrong with the film.Those who trash Holloywood are missing the point. Hollywood makes movies. Movies are for entertainment purposes. This movie is entertaining. Even if you want to get technical, I'm sure there were IRA members that had good in them and felt as Pitt's character does in this one.Guys, if you want an entertaining 2 hour film, this one fits the bill. If you want to know about Ireland and it's conflicts, go to the library.And those posting comments here about the way the IRA is portrayed, lighten up... it's only a movie! "},{"Title":"One of Mr. Pitts' finer roles","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this is one of Brad's best played roles.And just because his accent is not perfect Irish and the movie does not portray Ireland as its really is, does not detract from some fine laid back understated acting from Mr. Pitt. In fact, its uncannily similar to his acting in Meet Joe Black which was critically acclaimed. I sorry I cannot agree that this is a mediocre movie -it isn't. I thought that Brad outshone Harrision Ford. The haunting musical score,the yes, very Irish girl, the sad finale....outstanding And as to the comment of another viewer that the IRA are simple terrorists, all i have to say is a quote one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I read Brad Pitt wanted out of this film, but in my opinion he shows all kinds of strength, compassion for the family and was very passionate about the land of his birth. He was also very adept in his role as an IRA soldier. I feel he is a very good method actor and displayed his personal torment of loyalty to both his country and the family he lived with. Harrison Ford also showed how torn he was in his job and his friendship with Brad Pitt. I thought the movie was well put together. Pitt's ability to control each situation made him stand out in this film. I really enjoyed the Irish music and Rory's closeness to the little girl in the movie. "},{"Title":"A Great Film to Watch!","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a pretty good film. I just saw and was able to go to the message boards and see that most people thought it was a descent film especially having to do with Mr. Pitt's accent. The camera work was quite well done though the editing perhaps needed a little tweaking every once in a while. It had a fantastic story, though not necessarily true to fact, it was a good character study and very well acted by all parties involved. The music was relatively well done and fit the scenes pretty well, though like a typical Horner experience it was not stellar. My favorite part though might just be the lighting and all the detailing of mood it created. I genuinely thought it was a great film and would suggest people watch it. 9/10 stars  "}{"Title":"About the movie, not the politics","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think it's important to realize when watching this movie that it is not making a pro-IRA political statement.  It is also not trying to glamourize the murders of innocent civilians.  It is simply an account of an IRA fighter and the problems surrounding him.  This is a wonderfully done movie, and highly recommended.  Brad Pitt's character, Frankie, is sympathetic in many ways.  Though we want Harrison Ford's character Tom's family to be safe, and to prosper, we have to look at both sides of the story.  The real gem of this movie is how Tom has to look at both sides of the issue, and ultimately do what he feels is right.  It's a complicated, no side is necessarily right kind of film, and it does a good job at conveying all possible angles.  Pitt is excellent in the film (whether his accent is authentic or not- if you're an american, you probably won't know the difference) and portrays his character well.  It's not an American story, it's an Irish one- there's no clear happy ending, and your sympathies are divided.  Though I don't want to give any spoilers away, I will say that the movie is definitely worth watching till the end, and right up to that point the writers stay true to their characters.  On a side note, if you are seeing this movie mainly because you're a fan of either Harrison Ford or Brad Pitt, you won't be disappointed.  Both do an excellent job at portraying their characters in this film, and the violent scenes are interspersed well with more reflective ones.   "},{"Title":"Good movie with some flaws","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I find it funny that the British reviewers use this forum to make political statements rather than address the film itself. Most films about the IRA portray them in a very negative way. This film does exactly that, but many Brits are bothered by the fact that it tries to explain why Brad Pitt becomes a IRA member. How many young boys wouldn't resent, or outright hate, people that break into your house at dinner time, and murder your father in front of your eyes? I think the British reviewers here would prefer that every IRA member be portrayed as an ignorant, mouth-breathing, cold-blooded killer, without a grain of consciousness or humanity.Ok, now to the film. It has good acting, pretty good directing, (except for the action scenes), but misses a great opportunity at an interesting story line. The ending also leaves something to be desired, but overall the movie carries it's weight despite it's flaws. Ford plays a good Irish-American cop that finds out that his house guest just happens to kill for a living. When British intelligence demands he turn over Pitt, his sense of duty wont allow him to do it, for fear that they want to murder him, rather than bring him to justice. Caught between a rock & a hard place, he follows the only course of action his conscience will allow, try to bring Pitt in alive to face trial. The trouble is, Pitt is a trained killer and has different plans, namely to bring back stinger missiles to Ireland to fight the British.The bottom line is that the movie is certainly worth renting, especially if you like Ford and/or Pitt.Two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Being Irish-American, as well as English-American, I really enjoyed this film. I am a big fan of the entire cast. I agree that Pitt struggled with the accent. I understand why many Irish and UK folks would hate this film, but it isn't a documentary. I think that it is wrong to stereotype a man into being the devil incarnate just because he was an IRA fighter. Just because someone hates an enemy group or country (like loyalists and unionists), doesn't mean that person is predisposed to hate EVERYONE and is incapable of love and compassion for someone else (like an American), who is not affiliated with EITHER party. I admit to being much more ignorant about the Troubles than those of the British Isles. I wish I did know more, so I could better understand. This film was non-stop entertainment to me. Sure much of it was far-fetched, but it is Hollywood. I would like to see a neutral documentary on the Troubles, to better understand what all involved went through. I really enjoyed the billiard game played in the bar. Being Irish, my pride was overflowing. I only wish more of the film took place in Ireland. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think that this is a good movie. The accent wasn't terribly good. I enjoyed this movie, the characters didn't seem Irish either (sorry if my spelling of Irish is wrong). I wouldn't mind seeing this movie again. The part about hiding the money was obvious about where it was. Thats all I can think of saying at the moment. "},{"Title":"The truth is- I like this film","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Frankie 'Angel' McGuire (Brad Pitt) is a wanted IRA soldier who is sent to New York City from Belfast to purchase a massive amount of weapons. Through a NY judge, with his new identity 'Rory Devaney', McGuire stays with an Irish American family, the master being Tom O'Meara (Harrison Ford), a sympathetic police officer. Their friendship is quickly formed, but when a group of masked men breaks in the house of the O'Mearas, O'Meara begins to suspect McGuire's true identity and his purpose of coming to America. When he finds out the truth, he is determined to bring McGuire in, but wants to keep him alive, not being executed by either the US or the British government. Maybe somebody was right- Pitt seems too nice to be an IRA gunman...but I've never met one in my whole life, how do I know what they are like? People say Pitt's accent is bad. However, forgive me, I cannot tell, although I was in Belfast for one week and met some locals, I can't see why his accent is judged as 'that bad'. I've never been in a riot or a shooting on the streets of Belfast, I can't say whether the one depicted in this film is true to life or not. Forgive me if I'm being naive, but I like this film. I think it's very poignant, albeit I must admit that I am not familiar with how the IRA do their business in the USA, except that I've read a few books about the Troubles and I have been to Belfast. McGuire's mission is to ship the weaponry back to Northern Ireland, and O'Meara has to stop him...one thing I can tell, this is a typical Hollywood movie, but it's not a dodgy one. It somewhat beautifies the character Frankie McGuire perhaps, nevertheless, this film is far better than many other junk flicks. What I reckon is, this movie has compassion within it. I personally think this film is well made and well acted.Note that little Frankie watches his father shot dead by a Loyalist paramilitary assassin right before him and the rest of his family while having dinner. This was extremely common throughout the 1970s in Northern Ireland, carried out by both sides- the Republicans and the Loyalists, as punishment. The full-length version of the theme song 'God Be with You', by Dolores O'Riordan, which is only available on the soundtrack album, is profoundly moving.The ending is sad. Very sad. Forgive me if I'm being over-sentimental again.            "},{"Title":"Great film for those not familiar with N. Ireland Troubles.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film gives people an understanding about what is happening with the Troubles in Northern Ireland. We are treated to the story of a man who joins the IRA's fight because of what a loyalist paramilitary did to his father 30 years before. We can justify what he does by what he has gone through and we can also justify what the British will do to get him, as he has killed British military personnel and civilians. The film also brings into perspective what the American involvement is in the issue, as it is Americans who are selling the weapons to the IRA. The New York cop who takes in the IRA gun runner has no idea of his past, but when he figures out what is going on, he does what he feels is right, which is turning in Rory. In doing so, he has saved countless lives in Northern Ireland and the life of someone who is close to his family. "},{"Title":"One Of Both Harrison's & Pitt's Best Films","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"15 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford has done a done a considerable amount of movies I have really enjoyed and this is one of my favorites. It has a great story, good acting, nice photography and a pleasing soundtrack. It also has an excellent mixture of violence and lulls, not overdoing either and some excellent suspense. All of that adds up to a good two hours of entertainment. I think this is more of a man's movie. Well, I know it is since there really isn't any romance angle in here, even though the two leads - Ford and Brad Pitt - are very popular with most women.Pitt also excels in here as the IRA terrorist who is extremely bitter, violently so, since as a young boy he witnessed his father's murder. It has to be one of Pitt's best performances.. Ford plays a New York City cop and an honest, good one at that, which is nice to see in a modern-day film in which filmmakers prefer to show corrupt policemen. Another very strong point of this film was the ending. When you read someone writing it was unsatisfactory, don't believe it. Morally, the only objection I had to this film - other than the Lord's name in vain - was too much credence given to Pitt's revenge and violent lifestyle being understandable under the circumstances. No, sorry, but as sweet as revenge is to all of us, it shouldn't be condoned.I love the Irish music in here, especially the final song sung during the ending credits. It's beautiful, so don't just the film off too soon. "},{"Title":"Splendid movie - splendid Brad Pitt","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well done movie! Scary and at times evil. Brad Pitt carries it home on his vastly talented shoulders. That guy is truly up there among the biggest talents. You always know that when Brad Pitt is in a movie, it ROCKS! And this is no exception.The plot is straight forward (Irish freedom fighter buying arms in the USA from the mafia).It has all the ingredients of a great movie - but is blissfully lacking idiotic and un-necessary romantic interludes.The tension is great - especially the tension between Pitt and Ford (Ford plays the good cop) and the dilemma between them is portrayed credibly. OK, the ending may be a bit foreseeable - that could have been done more dangerously and interesting, but so be it.A very good movie and a must see! "},{"Title":"GOOD FILM!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good film not brilliant but i thought it told the story well from beginning to end.  This is a great flick about a Northern Ireland IRA member who leaves NI to go to the US and lives with harrison ford a cop and as you may expect great acting but Brad gets into some terrorism problems and thats where the film really kicks off!Is his friend FORD going to find out what he Brad was or what he is planing to do!well you'll have to see the film to find out7/10  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable well paced film.  Ford and Pitt were superb.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this film to be an enjoyable, well paced thriller.  It had a very plausible plot line and I thought very good performances by Harrison Ford, Brad Pitt and others.  While the accents may have been imperfect, I think that to the average American ear they served the purpose, and they certainly didn't distract from a fine film, which for some reason didn't stay in theaters for long. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as the critics would have you believe !","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was panned and slammed by critics and pundits far and wide, and I distinctly remember a TV interview in which both key protagonists were left having to defend it (and ultimately themselves), amid rumours of an unfinished script and more. Assuming the benefit of the doubt, such hardships may have in fact added to (and certainly not taken away from) the overall result (!) -- which is what counts in the end. The likeable New York cop and father, Ford, is believable as one of the multidudinous descendents of Irish immigrants, while Pitt's portrayal of one fresh off the docks is quite admirable -- at least he doesn't shy away from a challenge, now does he? The worst thing about the film, however, is the title -- a monkey could have named it better. Ah but, ya keep forgettin', it's an Irish story&#133; (Rating 3.5 stars of 5.)   "},{"Title":"it was a good movie","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought the movie was really good because come on!!! unless you live in northern Ireland and have experienced the troubles there is no way you can judge on it i agree at the IRA are terrorists but they play an important role in the political side of northern Ireland people that live in wales , Scotland , England or the U.S.A you might all think that the people that live in northern Ireland Belfast particularly may think that its hard to live in it but its true you do get use to it you get use to driving past bonfires and your car being stolen. You all may say oh my goodness i can't believe the Irish fight like this but it isn't as if the U.S.A don't go to the war but don't get me started in that so i don't think it is right for people that don't live in the troubles and haven't seen there little brother shot in the head e.Tc have the right to pass judgements on the way northern Ireland is !!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Absolutely worth watching, sensitive, with elements of an ancient Greek tragedy and humanistic message","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though many people hated this movie because of the way it has presented (or it hasn't presented) its political-historical background, I just loved it. Is one of my favorites in my DVD collection.The acting is masterly, especially from Brad Pitt. Harrison Ford does a good job, too, as the cop Tom O'Meara, an one-dimensional character, though. Tom is the impeccable, incorruptible cop, who does always right. Brad Pitt is charged with the much more difficult task to render the delicate tones of a more complex, real-life character, as the IRA soldier Frankie McGuire. And he pulls it off wonderfully.Frankie is not a hero neither a common criminal (there isn't black or white here), but just what he says in the film about himself and his mates We are normal people in ubnormal situation. He's not a hero because he has stained his hands with blood repeatedly. He's not a soldier of a regular army and his actions are considered crimes. (Note that -and that's an issue- in all likelihood he would be a hero if he were a member of a regular army, killing by his intelligent weapons the enemies of his country along with some innocent citizens by mistake). He's not a common criminal, since he believes that in this way he defends the rights of his country and since he has not been hardened or anaesthetized enough yet he can still feel remorse for his terrible actions and liking (affection) for a man with different convictions (cop Tom).Frankie has been deprived of a peaceful life and of all of its small joys that we normal people take for granted. During one of his missions he is hosted to Tom's house, where he finds the tranquil, friendly family environment, which allows him to reveal the nice guy he would potentially be under different normal circumstances. A friendship (a kind of a father-son relationship) grows up between the two men. But unfortunately, Frankie was destined to be born and raised in ubnormal situation, trapped in the vicious circle of violence. His bloody duty calls him. And since there is good stuff in him, he will stand for his own principles -whatever they are he believes they are the right ones- up to the end. The same goes for Tom. Given that, their confrontation seems to be inevitable.This is an absolutely worth watching, sensitive movie with elements of an ancient Greek tragedy (since the fate of its heroes is somehow predestined - not by Gods but by the situations). It has top-notch performances, fine direction, an interesting story, an unforgettable score and a decent pace. But its strongest point is its humanistic, misinterpreted by audiences message, which in my opinion is the following 1) The response to violence is violence, a vicious circle from which you can't escape easily. 2) Putting aside all the things that draw dividing lines between us (state interests, religion, racial prejudice etc.) we all resemble each other. We are all human beings with the same primary needs for friendship, love, happiness, with similar feelings in joy and in sorrow. And if we realized that our world would be much much better.I give it 10 out of 10.---------------------------SPOILERS FOLLOW-----------------------------Frankie, I was so sorry for your victims. I was also so sorry to see you die like that. But you knew the big boys' rule You pick up the gun, sooner or later somebody gets the bullet.  "},{"Title":"It was great !","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Devil's own was a great movie.It was well done. Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford did a great job. It had a good plot and I didn't want it to end. Brad did a great job on his Irish accent and didn't make any mistakes . A lot of actors/actresses who have accents in a movie sometimes mess-up and forget,but,he didn't . I recommend this movie to everyone.It had a little of everything in it,truth,love and violence. Thank you guy's for a great movie ! "}]