[{"Title":"A Character Study Illustrating How Nazi's Were Able to Assert Their Power","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"100 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing more frightening that having the Holocaust as part of our world's long history is to know that are human minds capable of creating and sustaining such an oppression. The real horror of Bryan Singer's adaptation of Stephen King's novella Apt Pupil lies in that we have this knowledge. We know that Adolf Hitler possessed the powers of immense manipulation and charisma. This has been so ingrained into our heads that I remember as a child knowing that Hitler was charismatic before I really knew what the term meant. This film is an exploration into the mind of a person who conceivably has many of the same manipulative characteristics. In the progression of the film, we slowly learn why.Before any images actually come on screen, we hear the voice of someone asking if the Holocaust occurred as a result of economic or social cultural reasons. Or was it in fact, human nature? We then realize that the monologue is being given by a school teacher in a social studies class. The principle character, Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro), a member of this class and is fascinated with studying the Holocaust. He spends much time in the library reading books and newspaper articles on the subject. Just as the opening credits finish, the camera zooms in slowly to the eyes of a concentration camp leader. This is the first of many extreme close-up shots of eyes. This distance motif is incredibly effective. The eyes are the window to a man's soul and the psyche that Apt Pupil explores.One rainy night, while Todd is riding the bus, he sees a mysterious man, who he realizes is Kurt Dussander (Ian McKellan), a Nazi war criminal and concentration camp leader who managed to escape from Germany years before. This is when we really begin to see Todd's disturbed mind. He is the kind of person who is so meticulous that he finds fourteen finger print matches of Dussander and builds a file that will be sent to the Israeli government if he doesn't agree to tell stories about the Holocaust that they are too afraid to tell in school. It is now clear that Todd is not so fascinated with the Holocaust because he's racist (the film makes no reference to him being racist). He admires the power, dedication and will behind the driving force of the Holocaust.  He mimics this power in his blackmailing of Dussander.The scenes with Dussander explaining in explicit detail the acts that he performed in concentration camps are quite disturbing in themselves, but what is more disturbing is that Todd seems more detached than Kurt. Most of us would cringe in disgust if we were to sit and listen to the stories that Kurt tells. We get the impression that Todd is thrilled with the fact that he is able to control this man and make him relive his past.In the film's most harrowing scene, Todd brings Kurt an officer's uniform, similar to what he would have worn during the War years, and makes him march. Up until this point, we are led to believe that perhaps Kurt has had some time to develop remorse over the years for his haneous acts of brutality, but when Todd begins commanding him, Kurt fades to the same state of mind of his Nazi persona from the past and we see the man capable of ordering concentration camp personnel to gas hundreds of Jews. The scene is truly chilling and stands out as the most memorable in the film.Apt Pupil is occasionally slow, but never boring. I, for one could not take my eyes off the screen for a second. The power struggles between Todd and Kurt are always intense. The sequence of events leads up to a horrifying scene with Todd and his guidance counselor (David Schwimmer). Here, we learn of the lengths that Todd will take his manipulation. You can't do that, the guidance counselor says. You have no idea what I am capable of doing, replies Todd. This line of dialogue is very effective. We know from having seen the rest of the film that Todd is capable of quite a lot. While not as powerful or intense as Stephen King's novella, the film Apt Pupil gives us a creepy insight to the corruption of power and manipulation.**** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Flawed but has great direction and good performances in an uneasy story","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"45 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Young high school student Todd Bowden uncovers that an old man in his neighbourhood is really Nazi war criminal Kurt Dussander under the name of Arthur Denker.  Bowden offers not to turn Dussander in if he agrees to tell him what it was like to carry out the crimes he did during the war.  However the relationship changes both Dussander and Bowden, bringing evil to the surface in both of them.Having read the short story prior to the film being made I knew that this was going to be a difficult subject to bring to the screen.  The film does a good job but makes many changes that will disappoint those who know the book.  Treating the film as a separate entity it isn't bad but it happens too quickly and doesn't go deep enough.  The plot is interesting but the depth Todd sinks to isn't convincing as half of it is forced on him and the other half he seems to embrace it.  Dussander himself is well crafted but his descent into evil doesn't go far enough to be truly captivating.  The ending is different from the book but I'm in two minds if it works better or not.Brad Renfro is good but I can't help but compare him to the character in the book and see his short fallings.  However he does manage to keep his changes semi-realistic without descending into being OTT or turning into a cartoon character.  McKellen is perfect in the lead role and he manages to be larger than life.  An actor of Koteas shouldn't have done such a minor role but Schwimmer gives a good performance that isn't his usual `Ross' thing again.It's hard not to compare this to the book and beside that it pales slightly.  As a film in it's own right it's OK but it doesn't quite convince and has an uneasy tone to it.  Singer was always going to have a tough time following the amazing Suspects, but here he does pretty well.  The direction is great and features plenty of great shots throughout the film.Overall it is a flawed film because it doesn't go as far as it should nor does it manage to totally sell the characters to us.  However it's worth a watch for great direction by Singer and a good lead by McKellen. "},{"Title":"A psychological thriller","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Bryan Singer (The Usual Suspects and both X-Men features), Apt Pupil is a story of adolescent curiosity and evil intentions. Ian McKellen (X-Men) plays the role of an aged, former Nazi soldier living alone in a quiet town with Brad Renfro (Sleepers) as a young, high school teenager in the search of finding the truth about Nazi life in wartime Germany.Adapted from the Stephen King novella of the same name, Apt Pupil is a psychological thriller with an Alfred Hitchcock-like presence, leaving quite a bit to the viewer's imagination. Much like a game of cards, the action moves back and forth between characters, each trying to take control of one another. While Kurt Dussander (McKellen) wants to keep his past in the past, Todd Bowden (Renfro) keeps probing (and sometimes threatening) to unleash the stories of the reign of Hitler and the torture of the Jews.While this movie is much like other Stephen King-adapted novels in the sense that it doesn't always translate well to the big screen (with all of the little nuances that made King famous), the superb acting and directing makes Apt Pupil a worthwhile venture into the nature of mental wickedness. Both Singer's vision and McKellen's portrayal of Nazi war criminal bring excitement and intrigue to this movie making it a must-see. "},{"Title":"If you read the novella, don't bother","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"49 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I read the novella in high school, and I found it scary, disturbing, and a real grabber - I couldn't put it down until I was done.As for the movie version, I'm sorry to say it doesn't work. While there have been much worse Stephen King adaptations, this is still pretty weak. Someone else here said it's been sugarcoated, and I agree. It's been watered down so much, that character's actions that were easy to understand in the book become Whaa - why did he do that? here. The ending is the worst part - though I can understand why they may not have been able to recreate the novella's original ending onscreen, couldn't they have thought of a new ending that was better than the one they used here?The acting is good, one of the few things that works here.In short if you have read the novella, do NOT watch this movie - you'll be horrified in a way the filmmakers didn't intend. The positive comments here seem to come from people who haven't read the novella. I still wouldn't recommend this movie even for non-readers, but if you must watch this movie, I strongly urge you to read the novella after you've seen the movie. It'll really open your eyes (in more ways than one), and you'll see how much better the movie could have been.  "},{"Title":"Evil Feeding Evil","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt Pupil is a movie of symbolism, it is a movie of metamorphosis, it is not a movie to be brushed off, taken lightly, nor is it to be watched if you want anything even remotely uplifting. It is a thoroughly depressing movie about corruption and the very root of evil. You'll find no plot summary here because you can scroll up slightly and find one. I can tell you Ian McKellen is one of the finest actors in the world and even solidifies that unlikely people like Brad Renfro and David Schwimmer can be incredible actors in their own rights. The movie poses several questions, almost none of which it answers and indeed might not have answers. It is, at it's core, about evil feeding into evil. The boy's evil reawakens the old man's evil, the old man's evil stokes the boy's evil and it continues to crescendo throughout coming to an incredible climax. A fascinating and thoroughly challenging movie. "},{"Title":"A brilliantly concocted mindgame between a Nazi, a boy, and you.","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film is not for the light of heart or of mind.  The story is about a boy who learns that a Nazi war criminal is living right in his metaphoric backyard.  Obsessed with learning more than just what they teach you in school, the boy sets off on a journey to discover How did it feel?  The writing, based on a novella by Stephen King, takes you through the minds of both the boy and the Nazi.  It's a battle of wits with real people being the pawns.  This movie will mess with your mind.  Do not watch it if you aren't up to the challenge.  My hat goes off to Brandon Boyce and Bryan Singer, the writer and director, respectively, who seem to have interwoven the story and the audience.  Never have I witnessed such an excellent display of psychological warfare.   "},{"Title":"Learning to be evil","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King's Apt Pupil, which is part of the novella collection Different Seasons (alongside the stories that inspired The Shawshank Redemption and Stand by Me), is a valid example of how you don't need things to be openly supernatural to have a good scary tale a human incarnation of pure evil will do just as fine, and few images are more effective than those of the atrocities perpetrated by the Nazis during WWII.Okay, minor correction WWII has virtually nothing to do with this story, given it takes place in 1984. There is a Nazi involved, though his name is Kurt Dussander (Ian McKellen), but he's been living quite peacefully in your average American neighborhood under the name Arthur Denker. However, a young boy named Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro from the Grisham-inspired The Client) manages to uncover the old man's real identity thanks to some thorough research and tells him about the discovery. The unexpected thing is, Todd doesn't want to report Dussander to the police. What he really wants is to learn everything - and he repeatedly emphasizes the word everything - about the former Nazi's work under Hitler's regime. Soon enough, the perverse bond between the two starts affecting the boy's grades and behavior, and Dussander isn't unaffected either somewhere deep inside lies the old Nazi, and that part of his personality would like to come out and play.The film's screenplay sticks quite faithfully to the basic idea of King's story and reproduces some of the most famous scenes verbatim (except for one moment of animal cruelty, which had to be softened), although a few subplots are excised, presumably for the sake of length and pace. The downside of that is an occasional lack of detail, especially when it comes to the development of Renfro's character. Director Bryan Singer, who obviously found himself in an uncomfortable position to begin with, having to live up to the success of The Usual Suspects, makes up for this flaw by constructing a genuinely tense and unnerving atmosphere, adding to the moral ambiguity by highlighting the homosexual subtext already present in the book (when Todd tells Dussander to f*ck himself, the latter replies My dear boy, can't you see? We're f*cking each other.).Acting-wise, the limelight is inevitably placed on the leading duo, even if the supporting cast, which includes fine character actors like Bruce Davison and Elias Koteas, is quite strong (with the exception of David Ross Schwimmer, who isn't entirely at ease in a serious role). Renfro's performance is solid and captivating enough, but like his character he is completely overshadowed by the superb, unsettling McKellen, who inhabits the role of Dussander with his usual Shakespearean grandeur. Case in point the unforgettable moment when the old man is forced to wear an old SS uniform Todd got his hands on. McKellen carries out the assignment with the dignity of a great tragic thespian, nailing the scene as one of the essential samples of his film career.Apt Pupil distances itself from The Shawshank Redemption and Stand by Me in that it isn't as accomplished, most notably when it comes to the inevitable book/film comparison. Then again, it tells a much darker story, which asks the audience to root for a psychotic teenager and an aging Nazi. Flawed it may be, but it certainly is interesting (not to mention carried by an astounding McKellen). It is indeed a different season. "},{"Title":"Innovative story!","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I was surprised at how good this movie was. The plot line seemed intriguing, but I was worried that it would eventually fall into one of the standard bad Nazi war criminal found plots where you always know the ending. This story was much more inventive.At its core, the movie is about a high school student who discovers that an old man living in his community is a former Nazi war commander. Instead of turning him in, he approaches the man with a very unusual deal. He'll leave the man alone if he can hear first-hand about all the horrible things that were done. This was the plan at least.The movie needed intense performances - and it got them from McKellen and Renfro. Both are incredibly captivating and scary in their own ways. Coupled with a suspenseful, unpredictable Stephen King story, the movie succeeds well.If you're a Stephen King fan or simply enjoy thrillers, this movie is worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Original, Intriguing","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A teenage boy befriends an elderly man. During countless discussions over many a night, they form a special friendship that manages to bridge their considerable age gap. It would sound like a sweet character study if the old man wasn't a Nazi war criminal and the teen wasn't a Holocaust-obsessed recluse blackmailing his new pal for all the gory details.APT PUPIL scores the highest marks for originality. Nothing ever quite like this has been done before, and it's all quite intriguing. In the beginning, we come close to feeling sorry for the old man despite his past misdeeds. Here is he living out his golden years in peace and seclusion when all of a sudden a pushy teenager threatens to blow his cover. As the tale progresses, we see that the elder is just as conniving as the boy, threatening simply to expose their friendship, forever linking the young man with unimaginable notoriety. What starts out as a bizarre acquaintance escalates into a duel of manipulation.It's not surprising that APT PUPIL is based on a novella by Stephen King. The film bears many of the hallmarks of King's works. And while it's never actually scary, it is thrilling at a psychological level that King reaches best. It's not perfect, but with the skilled direction of Bryan Singer and solid performances by leads Brad Renfro and Ian McKellen, it generally accomplishes what it sets out to do.You don't have to be a horror person or a teenager at a late night party to enjoy APT PUPIL. The film has a unique appeal beyond what its target audience may have been. If you missed it when it was released in 1998 (as many did, based on its limited commercial success), it's certainly worth a look. "},{"Title":"Interesting tale of cat and mouse based on the idea that someone can become obsessed with a certain text.","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The underlying theme Apt Pupil maintains throughout is attention to texts and attention to texts that can inspire and influence but for all the wrong reasons. Apt Pupil does not have a set up; it jumps right into its narrative from the very beginning as close to perfect student Todd Bowden (Renfro) sits there having gone through a lecture on the infamous Holocaust that took place during the 1930s and 40s in Central and Eastern Europe. Todd looks disturbed and yet intrigued at the same time; the opening credits roll after the teacher rubs out 'Jews' written on the chalk board, with the credits doubling up as a montage as Todd goes deeper and deeper into the history of the Holocaust and picks up on lots of information.From here, Todd has had his mind polluted with a text he has done every attempt to read up on and is now in a different sort of mindset but since we did not know him before the film started, it is his psyche that has been attributed to him. Similarly to the American couple who went on a spree after seeing Badlands; similarly to the French couple who shot and robbed a liquor store after seeing Natural Born Killers and similarly to the hoodlums in Britain who dressed up and beat tramps after seeing A Clockwork Orange, media texts and texts in general can inspire and influence. Todd's story is a study of this and it become doubly dangerous when he realises local neighbour Kurt Dussander (McKellan) is an ex-Nazi in hiding.From this intriguing set up comes a film that unfolds at a satisfying pace, delivers shocks and the odd surprise whilst maintaining a healthy amount of suspense. The film spends most of its first third informing us that the Holocaust was a 'bad thing' with its trailing off of stories that Kurt delivers to Todd and its dream sequences that Todd must endure. But at the same time, this only further emphasises Todd's fascination and displays how vulnerable he really is. There are two scenes in which Todd hallucinates about the Holocaust; one of which is when he is peering into a window at a dying Jew who cries out for help but Todd awakes in a cold sweat &#150; he didn't enjoy it. The second of which takes place in the shower when he imagines he is a Jew himself. But he snaps out of it and pants in relief it's over.These reactions display fear and anxiety toward such visions but it is not long before he is treating friends like dirt, participating in animal cruelty and wanting to witness first hand a Nazi drill from the real thing. There are two symmetrical scenes during which both Todd and Kurt partake in animal cruelty emphasising that Todd is perhaps entering the mindset of a Nazi whilst one who has already been there and been one also tries his hand at animal cruelty &#150; disturbingly fitting how it involved an oven. But at this point, Todd has already bordered on the insane since his readings of the subject and the stories of the ex-Nazi have deterred him from the straight and narrow; it echoes the scene in Taxi Driver when Travis pretends to 'shoot' the porn stars on the screen in the cinema &#150; he has seen the filth and the bare bones of the subject first hand and is now building up a fascination; albeit and 'anti' fascination as opposed to Todd's fascination which makes him want to hurt, upset and maim.And so as the film progresses, so does the intrigue and the deception. One of the films more memorable scenes involves a homeless man who for one reason or another gets in on the blackmail and believes he'll be permitted to stay at Kurt's house given a twist that occurs. Kurt may have other ideas and the scene in which he strokes the man's bald head (probably echoing the way he did for the Jews following their head shaving) is tense and unnerving. But the student/pupil relationship takes a bizarre route and Todd buys Kurt a uniform, demanding to see him in it and demanding a performance &#150; I don't think there is much of a homo-erotic 'gaze' that follows but there is certainly a lot more 'I'll look out for you, you look out for me' emphasis and everything gets a little more 'touchy-feely' if you know what I mean.Despite, in my opinion, one of the biggest mis-castings in a film from last decade; David Schwimmer turns up with a silly looking moustache and some tacky looking glasses and plays a school counsellor. His presence adds another ingredient to the boiling pot but just when the game looks up in a forgettable scene, Todd is quite literally saved by the bell. Then there are the lingering close ups of the handshakes, the creepy smile and those eyes behind those glasses &#150; is there something we should know? Apt Pupil is engaging and good fun for what it is but there are some sloppy scenes and some incidental occurrences but what good there is, is either nerve jangling, tense or unpredictable. "}{"Title":"Be afraid, be very afraid.","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apparently this movie was based upon a novel from Stephen King which I haven't read yet, so don't expect any comparing between the book and the movie from my side. What I can do for you is to explain how I feel about this movie and I must say that it left me with a double feeling. The acting and the story were OK, most of the time at least, but the entire concept of the movie didn't convince me once. It even disturbed me, but not in the way that you probably expect.The movie gives us the story of a 16 year old boy, Todd Bowden, who learns more about the Holocaust at school. He gets fascinated by it and starts reading and learning more and more about it. And then he makes a big discovery. He sees a man on the bus who appears to be Kurt Dussander, a Nazi war criminal, who now lives in his neighborhood under the assumed name Arthur Denker. Instead of turning the man over to the authorities he makes a deal with Denker. If the former Nazi tells him what life in the concentration camps was like, he won't tell anybody what Denker's real identity is. What follows is a strange cat and mouse game between Denker and Bowden that will end with a vicious murder...The subject, talking about an old man who appears to be a former Nazi who now lives in America and pretends to be a sweet old man, isn't bad. Even the idea that he has lived an undisturbed life since he arrived, but now his true identity is discovered by a young student is OK. But it is everything after that that bothers me. For instance, why do people in Hollywood always think in stereotypes when talking about former Nazi's? I mean, sure what they did was horrible and it is almost impossible for us to understand why so many Germans knew about it all and didn't do anything, but many of those former Nazi's and soldiers now live a normal life, even though some of them still meet each other and seem to be proud of what they did during the war. (This isn't a thing that I make up, in Belgium for instance the 'Sint-Maartens-fonds' (you could translate it as the Saint-Martins-fund), still organizes the Belgian SS-soldiers who fought in the USSR against the Bolsjewism and I once saw a meeting of former SS and Wehrmacht troops in Austria, only a couple of years ago). But, opposite to what Hollywood tries to make us believe, these people aren't pure evil. I mean, they aren't torturing people during these meetings or creating plans to take over power and to chase the Jews...This movie does exactly that. It shows how Dussander changes into a Nazi again as soon as he puts on the uniform and is ordered to march. And that's only the start. Immediately after, he tries to gas and fry a cat in his oven (I guess the cat has to stand for the hundreds of Jews which Dussander killed personally), and eventually even kills a man...Another problem that I have with the movie is that it shows how Todd starts to study Nazism and the Holocaust and eventually changes into a bad guy himself. If that's true than be very afraid when you meet me, because I read a lot of books about WWII as well and yes I even read books about the Nazi's. Never have I felt the need to kill someone or something, but if you have to believe this movie, than I might turn into a disturbed and hating person myself...If you think that this movie is realistic, than I guess you should try to find out more about WWII yourself and especially about the Nazi's, because I guess it's fear of the unknown, that makes believe that this is a very realistic movie. Oh well, as a character study this movie isn't bad. Just don't take it too serious like I did, than you won't be very disappointed by it. I give it a 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"Not a Very Good Effort","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  With a few notable non-scary exceptions (Stand By Me and The Shawshank Redemption), Stephen King hasn't had much luck having his written work translated to the silver (or small) screen. And as one of today's most prolific and popular novelists, much of his work has been adapted. Not that I've seen all of it, far from it. But most of what I've seen has disappointed.  Add to the list of disappoints, Apt Pupil.The horror in this film is not supernatural, but psychological. It chronicles the improbable story of a young teen who discovers that an elderly neighbor is an ex-Nazi death camp commander. Instead of dropping a dime on the old butcher, he blackmails him! And not for money, but for his insight, insight into the nature of evil. And this from a 14-year old? The story didn't wash. The movie is created well, with decent acting, but the direction seemed to wander. At times I felt that the movie was taking a creepy, dark turn to plumb the depths of human depravity, then it would skip off into something more akin to a murder mystery. Sort of schizophrenic, as if the director wasn't quite sure of the type of movie he was making. I wouldn't recommend this movie.    "},{"Title":"bomb the Nazis","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen King is a genius... I repeat, Stephen King is a genius (that was just for the record, I have to pay tribute to the King before I have the right to continue this commentary).  Moving on, I have to say two words that made this movie great, only two words to describe the main reason for success in this production, the first is Ian the second is McKellen.  You put them together and you get the name of the BEST actor for this part.  He wasn't just brilliant in this role, he literally WAS the role, you couldn't see him as an actor in the movie, he was just too good for that.  You see him as the role.  What more can you ask for from a actor?  The story is extremely original and slick.  (which are rare combinations considering that almost everything has been done by this time).  Whoever did the casting on this movie deserves a kiss on the cheek!  They choose the best people for their suitable roles.  Even these new actors and actresses fit into their roles great.  From start to end you will be interested in this movie.  If you haven't seen it, I suggest you see it.  To all you out there who think that just because it's written by Stephen King it's going to be horror I remind you of this Lean on me, The Green Mile, and Shawshank Redemption were all written by Stephen King. "},{"Title":"Self-Righteous Commentary","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  If anyone has ever read the novella by Steven King, you would know that this movie came right from the toilet.  It lacked not only good acting but also the psychological state of the characters.  The characters lacked depth, which in turn created trite and meaningless interactions.  I could have found more emotions in a comic book character.  Mr. Renfro needs to stick to hickville roles (i.e. The Client), no offense Brad!!   "},{"Title":"Singer's forgotten film","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" 'The Usual Suspects' is one of my favorite films, and 'Apt Pupil' is the closest that Bryan Singer has ever come to recreating the atmosphere and intensity of his prior work. 'Pupil' is a very flawed film, but still an entertaining and insightful one. I haven't read the Stephen King novella which it is based upon for quite some time, so I don't recall all of the differences between the two works.Todd Bowden is a seemingly above average high school student. In 1984, he is a sixteen year old high school senior who is also a star pitcher for his school's baseball team. Basically he is the kind of kid that every parent wishes they had, except that he has a hidden dark side. This dark side manifests itself in a morbid fascination with the horrific crimes against humanity that were committed by the third Reich. An uncredited Christopher McQuarrie opens the film with a fantastically written narration, asking whether the Nazis actions were the result of economic, cultural, or social influences. He then posits that it may simply have been human nature. On the bus home one night, Todd recognizes an old man named Kurt Dussander as one of the famous war criminals he has been obsessively studying. The look of recognition in actor Brad Renfro's eye as the camera pans in is subtly and fantastically depicted. Bowden goes to great lengths to ensure that he has the right man before he confronts him (to include analyzing fingerprints).Todd has no interest in turning the Dussander in; instead he blackmails him into giving detailed recollections of his grisly past. The movie slowly becomes a chess game between the two, and soon they are blackmailing each other. As Dussander warns, Todd is playing with fire.John Ottman's opening score was disappointing, but the rest of the music and his editing were top notch. The film's primary flaw is that ten minutes or so could have been edited out of the middle portion of the film. Elias Koteas is a great actor, but his scenes go on for far too long, to the point of undermining the suspense. Tighter editing could have made this a much more popular film in my opinion, because the performances are stunning. Most of the film consists of Ian McKellan and Brad Renfro's characters in Dussander's house, and to their credit they're always compelling.Two scenes stand out for me. One is the dinner table scene, where Dussander easily wins over Todd's entire family with effortless charm. The second is where Todd forces him to wear an SS officer's uniform procured from a costumer (Dussander wryly notes that he's been promoted when he sees the rank tabs). His gradual descent back into his former self is chilling and McKellan plays it perfectly.Brandon Boyce's script and Bryan Singer's direction are dead on, except as I already mentioned more editing was needed in the middle of the film. The last half hour was masterfully constructed, and although the ending departs from the novella I preferred it. I think it had a lot more substance and was more unnerving than King's sudden, shocker ending. Does the film rely on a two amazing coincidences (Todd recognizing Dussander, and the old man sharing a hospital room with Dussander)? You bet. Does it work? I think so.Overall it's a good film with some interesting suppositions about the nature of evil, and it's a shame that it faded into obscurity. "},{"Title":"Scariest movie I've ever seen","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This one is vaguely forgotten by now but had the potential to be a great cult film. The short story this was based on in one of my all-time favourites, so I appreciated that Ian McKellen and Brad Renfro remained faithful to the source material, the characters remain as they were. Dussander/Denker is an unsympathetic, bitter old man who gets his only joy from murdering hobos, and he's still the nice guy. Todd Bowden is evil, and does a very good job of that. Surprisingly the screenplay is an improvement over King's original work. I mean his style is always a bit dry to me but usually the screenwriters mess things up further, as you can see in most of the other thousand King adaptations. But here there are these minor changes to the plot that work a lot better. Especially the fact that Todd gets away with everything this time is more fitting, though it didn't really make me that cheerful.One of the least lackluster of all Stephen King movies "},{"Title":"The Summer Of CorruptionThe Apt Pupil.","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" After having read the novel Different Seasons by Stephen King,(which also had the stories for Stand by me and Shawshank)I have to say that i found Apt Pupil the most enjoyable and interesting in the book.I feel the film is very good,but with a few flaws.The plotA local boy Todd Boweden(BradThe JacketRenfro),who is doing his high-school exams finds out that a man who lives on his block(Kurt Dussander)is a Nazi war criminal.Who is living in America under the name Arther Denker.Instead of turning Dussander(IanThe X-Men,Lord of the Rings,The Da Vinci CodeMcKellen) into the police.Todd decides to go round to Dussanders house and talk to him!.Because Todd has been studying World War II history at school,and he wants to find out what they don't talk about in library books.He does this by getting Dussander to tell him how he felt being in voled in The Holocaust.Things get even darker,when Dussander kills someone.And Todd has to cover up the murder for him. View on the filmThe cast.First of all i have to say that for Brad Renfro being 16 at the time,he gives a really great performance as Tood Bowden,who you feel turn from a nice innceent kid.Into someone who will do anything to get his way.Ian McKellen gives another great performance as Dussander,who you can believe actually did those horrific things.The main down side is the supporting cast,who try to make there roles different then most TV soaps,but (for me) they sadly come off as 2D-charitrics. The Screenplay.written by Brandon Boyce who due to the subject matter the film/short story is about.So the main thing you get is a very strong outline of the story.the only problem is that this makes the relationships and people in the fill not as realistic as you would want them to be.Thought i have to say that i feel the ending was a better idea then in the short story (Todd dies).The DirectionDirector Bryan Singer,you can see start some of the main themas that he carried on with The X-Men films.(Young people having to decide what side they want to be on as they enter there adult life.)Singer does a very good job with the dark Nazi imagery (something he built upon with the first X-Men film.)While he does a good job at trying to show whats behind white picket fences. Final view on the film An above-average film based on a great short story,with another great performance by McKellen. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric Psychological Thriller","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  FEISTY HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT, Todd Bowden (BRAD RENFRO), becomes fascinated by the theme of his history lesson about Nazi activities against the Jews, so much so he 'develops' (avoiding spoilers here) an intense relationship with 'Mr Denker' (IAN MCKELLEN) - in an attempt to give atmosphere to his imaginings. The plot quickly thickens as Todd and 'Mr Denker' trade in blackmail. The power constantly toggles as each another's life goes through twists and turns. This thread of co-dependency deepens. Screen Writer Brandon Boyce handles Stephen King's work with a touch of brilliance, always atmospheric, with constant surprises, with an underlying subliminal theme of  consequence. Just as a stalemate in the blackmail scenario develops another twist enters into the plot; with Apt Pupil you get several stories within one plot, nicely tied in at the end. Just as you think its coming to a conclusion, a major catalyst to this taut thriller enters when the 'drunk' is shown travelling on the bus... more events follow and the plot truly thickens. Whilst some may disagree, there are many suggestive and intentional homoerotic scenes in this film, some well documented. Other aspects focus quite heavily on sado-masochistic tangents; depending on your level of experience and (or) imagination. The film has many violent scenes, justified by an excellent evolving storyline often with a fast pace.  Throughout you are alerted to much dialogue that you know will be (and is) used for 'post-echoing' in your mind to the lead up of the final consequences. A thought provoking psychological thriller. Absorbing and intelligent, slowly peeling away the layers allowing you to get a real feel for the disturbed and twisted mind that lies behind seemingly innocent facades.  "},{"Title":"not bad, but might have had more potential, somehow","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt Pupil is a film I might possibly consider watching again, if I didn't have much to do during the day and had absolutely nothing else to watch (including TV). It's one of those transitional films for a director- in this case Bryan Singer- where from one film that's a success to another there's a bridge in the middle that kind of floats and fizzles before getting a closer look. But it's possible too, as I remember it, that part of my problem initially with the film wasn't as much with Singer's work as a director as it was with (some of) the writing. Stephen King's story has a lot of potential, and its idea could have different directions in the scope of the tragedy and aftermath-style horror that comes with a Nazi survivor in everyday America. There could even be a Hitchcok element to it as well, with a man who has evil stored somewhere inside and now in a very average, American town (and, indeed, what evil thoughts might lie in such average-town inhabitants) And some of that potential is tapped, primarily in the very tense, underplayed exchanges between Brad Renfro and (of course) Ian McKellan.In fact, I would most likely watch the film again more than any other reason for McKellan, who is good as usual (if not great), and tries his best to elevate the complexities of such a character like Kurt Dussander for the audience. But, again, the problem goes back to the writing, as in the third act the film goes completely off into more of a horror movie mode leaving some of the more serious and interesting questions left to muck around in the scenes where Dussander goes off the deep end. And, some of the horror brought to the film (and I would guesstimate most of it is from King's original story) is sub-par itself. King has written some great stories dealing with the horrors of humanity in the 'real' world, but Apt Pupil isn't one of them. With all of the effort put in by Renfro as the wayward, typically curious (and in this case un-hinged) teen, McKellan as the understanding and interesting but later truly monstrous figure, and Singer's competent direction, it's a shame then that the material itself wasn't totally taken into account. Worth a viewing once, at least for King die-hards who may find some extra enjoyment from seeing at least one unforgettable scene (where McKellan puts back on the uniform and gets into the 'mood' of the old-times), but it's far from being one of the better Nazi war criminal movies. "},{"Title":"I love it","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I know that there are some people who don't like this film for whatever reason, all I can say is that I think it's a superb film, and I don't think Bryan Singer has made a better then this, (This includes Usual suspets and X-men).I thing I love anout this film is that it gets under your skin, which not every film can do, and the story as well. Ok it is unlikely that you will reconise someone from a 40 year old photo. It has to be said though that the story is excellent, and this is one of my favourite films. "}{"Title":"Very good dark movie.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I think this was his first excellent movie. X-Men is his second. It was very well done. The novella was a little bit darker but I think it went out on a limb a little bit with the killing all those winos. The book scared me more than the movie did. I think I like the movie a little bit better. The movie seemed it stuck with blackmail, and power. In the book the kid kills his guidance counselor. I like the way the end was done much more in the movie. I believe there was a play on the shotgun comment. You see, in the book, the kid got a shotgun. In the movie he never liked guns. I think Brad Renfro is a wonderful actor and happens to be the same age as me. The final confrontation with his counselor was written and filmed well. Joshua Jackson has a small role. But, plays it well. Back to Apt Pupil. Ian McKellan does an excellent job at the role. I find it kind of strange that he plays a Nazi-war criminal and then a Jew in X-Men. Yes he was a mutant but what happened to him years ago in the concentration camp had a lot to do with the decisions about humanity later in life. Both roles were done well. Apt Pupil kind of scared you in a way to show you how much power someone can have over you if you screw up. Blackmail. I was fascinated by this movie. The detail of blackmail and power. No I don't plan going around making or showing these things but I would have liked to act in this movie playing Brad Renfro's role. I would give this movie a 9 out 10. "},{"Title":"It is about time someone produced a good movie.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a psychological thriller indeed. Those who tend to like movies that have nice lovely ending or Jim Carrey slapstick will most likely not like this movie. Awesome. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but a little too over the top to be taken seriously...","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt Pupil is well directed, with some interesting themes of power lust and evil feeding on itself, and great acting by Brad Renfro and Sir Ian McKellan, but I was put off by the very loose holds on reality. The plot alone is full of insane coincidences (a kid obsessed with the Holocaust just happens to bump into a Nazi war criminal, and that war criminal just happens to share a hospital room with one of his victims), but even the characterizations are a stretch. Renfro's character is very odd, and there is no given reason for why he is so naturally evil. And while it is hard enough to accept that McKellan would be bursting with evil 40 years later, with no hint of remorse (or even insight) about his past, it is completely ridiculous to assume he would be spending his evenings gassing cats and killing homeless people. The direction and acting make it worth watching, but in the end, I just couldn't take this overly serious movie seriously. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable Lesson.","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt. Pupil (1998) Dir Bryan Singer / Cast Ian McKellen, Brad Renfro, David Schwimmer, Bruce Davison, Elias Koteas Film contains one alarming scene where a kid orders a Nazi to uniform himself and march until tension builds to a halt. The kid is the Apt. pupil and the lesson is control but what does he hope to accomplish? He shows up on the Nazi's doorstep and blackmails with supposed files. Eventually the Nazi tries to roast a cat in the oven while the kid mashes a broken winged pigeon with a basketball. Chilling work by director Bryan Singer who also made The Usual Suspect. Violent outcome with pointless scenes such as the kid's failed grades and the Nazi poising as his grandfather. Then a begger lands in his basement with a knife in his back. With the Nazi's heart failure, the kid bludgeons the begger with a shovel. Ian McKellen is strong as the Nazi who attempts to gain control over this situation only to run into greater conflicts. Brad Renfro is unreadable as the deranged kid who obviously lacks proper discipline. David Schwimmer is miscast as the principal who is also subjected to blackmail. Bruce Davison is cardboard as Renfro's father who will not likely receive any Father of the Year award. Elias Koteas plays a homeless guy subjected to murder and a cover-up. The theme is control, which eluded the screenwriter. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Pupils of war","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt Pupil is an adaptation of a Stephen King short story. The film is set in the mid 1980s when a smart and cocky teenager, Todd Bowden interested in World War 2 suspects a neighbour of being a fugitive Nazi.Both enter a game of oneupmanship as at first, the fugitive Nazi, Dussander (Ian McKellen) is on the back foot but the elderly man is wily and cunning and wrests control.Bowden instead of turning the fugitive into the authorities wants to hear stories of the war and concentration camps, even gets Dussander to don a Nazi uniform and the relationship brings out demons on both the characters where a strange friendship and alliance ensues. Dussander even at one point pretends to be Bawden's grandfather in order to improve his school grades.However events with a homeless man and a spell in hospital when Dussander becomes ill threatens to bring both their worlds crashing down.The film is intriguing and interesting with a sly performance by McKellen who makes his character sympathetic at first, ashamed of his past. There is an interesting cameo by Michael Byrne as a concentration camp survivor (an actor best known for playing a Nazi in an Indiana Jones film.)The film then starts to lose its way a little, becoming a little predictable, losing some tension along the way. I understand the film departs from King's novella in its conclusion and although not wholly successful the film is still worth investing your time. "},{"Title":"Wasted Potential...","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Unlike many people, I enjoy adaptations that stray from their source material as long as it lends a different perspective or tells the story in a way that both the adaptation and source can be enjoyed on their own merit, but this film completely misses the point of the Stephen King novella that it is based on.Aside from this point, the acting was unbelievable and actually quite laughable throughout and you could tell that this was not the fault of the actors, but the direction of the actors and possibly a rushed production. And it is a very rushed production because the story is over and told before we can even completely feel, see and understand what drives the characters to behave in the way they do.The novella is about human corruption and the evils of human nature and explores how the evil of the holocaust transcends just those events and could lead to something of greater if humans allow themselves to become corrupted. Although this film adaptation seems to acknowledge this theme, so many shocking things happen in the source that are completely lost in the film that the viewer is not allowed to see the weight of the corruption.Many things simply make little or no sense in the film because the story is so rushed. Dialogue is often quoted verbatim from the novella, but lose their power and are actually somewhat confusing because other parts of the novella that are crucial to the characters' development are not even mentioned. Things happen in the film that make you think, why did they do that? That's strange, no one would do that in real life without motivation, unless they were crazy, of course. But we haven't established that anyone is crazy. Stupid perhaps, but not crazy.On the subject of stupidity, it's important to note that throughout the film, I get more of an impression that the 'apt pupil' is actually pretty stupid and is not even convincingly academically intelligent.The ending of the novella was unsettling and provocative, but the ending of the film was just a reminder that you wasted an hour and a half of your life that you will not get back. And the way it ended, what was the point? I won't say what happened although I can't say that this film can even be spoiled because nothing really happened in it, but the whole film was pointless. It was like the series finale of Dexter all over again...It's such a shame because Ian McKellen really looked the part of Dussander and played him very well as much as Bryan Singer let him... I think I'll watch Shawshank to cleanse my film palate.. "},{"Title":"A Beefy Concept That Ultimately Boils Down to Just Hot Air","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Ian McKellan is a Nazi war criminal hiding long-term in suburban America. Four decades after the war, a bright high school student with a fascination about WWII marks him on a bus ride and the two embark on a lengthy game of one-upsmanship. Oddly, the kid seems the more villainous of the two, though McKellan is himself far from heroic. I can't shake the sense that the concept was more daring than the film in this case. Featuring a Nazi in a decidedly grey light is a different take, for sure, but I felt like the filmmakers were always too afraid to go anywhere truly risqué with that material, and the core relationship between the two leads is toothless and pantomimed. Maybe that can be primarily chalked up to acting - Brad Renfro, who plays the kid, is positively grating in the role - but even removing that from the equation doesn't completely settle my stomach. It's a film that dances and loiters, but rarely has much to say of genuine power or meaning; wannabe edgy, using the taboo of an old war uniform to mask a serious lack of substance. Even the big reveal at the end, when everything comes apart at the seams, is hollow, telegraphed and half an hour behind schedule. "},{"Title":"Wasted potential","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" APT PUPIL is the big budget film adaptation of the Stephen King novella of the same name, about an ordinary high school pupil who strikes up an unlikely friendship with a former Nazi. I remember the King story as being particularly chilling and disturbing given the subject matter, and it's no surprise the nastiness has been toned down for this big screen outing.APT PUPIL isn't a bad movie and indeed it starts off rather well. Ian McKellen, just before he hit the mainstream with X-MEN and LORD OF THE RINS, is outstanding as the former Nazi forced to relive his murky past, and the scene in which he dresses up in the full regalia is inevitably the film's chilling highlight.Unfortunately, at around the halfway point the movie starts to fall apart a little bit and the script lets it down. Brad Renfro just isn't a strong enough actor for the complexities of the lead role and McKellen isn't given enough to do in the latter stages. The excellent Elias Koteas bags a tiny yet highly sympathetic role and cult film fans may recognise James Karen in a one-scene cameo. But the story has been unforgivably altered and the lukewarm ending is a particular disappointment considering the potency of King's original climax. "},{"Title":"A Machiavellian take on mass murder","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Before I even start my review of this movie (which I liked) I gotta say Apt Pupil has got to be the goofiest name for a story since the hilarious 30 Rock spoof Rural Juror. Say it 10 times fast and you'll feel like you just came back from the dentist.Anyhoo...There have been many films and books that attempt to explain the horror that we humans are capable of. While I haven't read the Stephen King nouvelle Apt Pupil, I can tell you this film adaptation kept my attention and tossed around some new ideas I hadn't really considered.If you haven't already seen it, search for the Stanley Milgram experiment. It was a psychological test done by a Yale student back in the 1960s offering one of the most chilling explanations for the phenomenon of Nazism, a convincing illustration of how humans can do horrific things. The gist is that we convince ourselves that we're doing what we're supposed to be doing (just following orders or everyone told me to do it). The video is online on dailymotion.Apt Pupil surprised me by taking a very different approach which I won't ruin for you. I'll just say that it weaves a complex Machiavellian scheme, where evil is deliberate and conscious of itself. It finds its footing by creating a balance of power, reminiscent of the mutual assured destruction philosophy in the 80s that led the USA and Russia to stockpile enough nukes to send us to the Smurf universe.OK, enough background. Let's talk about the film already. If the premise doesn't capture you instantly, the impressive directing and musical score should suck you in with its heavy, foreboding mood. Ian McKellan (probably best known as Gandalf from The Lord of the Rings but also an accomplished Shakespearean actor) is excellent in the role of an ex- Nazi... a menacing enigma somewhere between a serial killer and a cranky grandfather. Brad Renfro appears on screen as the perfect naïve kid with a perpetual deer-in-the- headlights expression, sort of like John Cusack in the 80s but without the laughs. The film focuses mainly on the transformation of Renfro's character. It's here where I was unconvinced, and I docked the film a point or 2. Renfro's character mutates so suddenly and drastically you'd think he sucked down some radioactive sludge. I feel a lot of his experiments with evil were uncharacteristic and thrown in for shock value. No matter how curious a person is, nobody goes from Pollyanna to animal mutilations in just a month or two. It was this seemingly random, inexplicable moral decay which I felt was just injected for cheap shock value. If you can get past that, the real theme emerges.The root of human evil, according to Apt Pupil, is not random moral decay but actually a complex struggle for power. When this theme emerged in the latter half, that's when I perked up and paid attention. The story then takes on a suspenseful air, and the kid & the Nazi get into an interesting game of cat & mouse.Overall, I'll stick with the Stanley Milgram experiment for the most convincing explanation of human atrocities. But Apt Pupil definitely delivers some food for thought. Another film that provides insight is the criminally underrated Exorcist III with George C. Scott and Brad Dourif playing mind games in an insane asylum. Also check out the documentary Aileen Life and Death of a Serial Killer, or on the lighter side, Dr. Strangelove makes an interesting commentary on why humans commit genocide. Who knows why humans kill, maim and torture. But as long as we keep investigating there may be hope for us. "},{"Title":"Very interesting film with two fine central performances","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In the late 1990's there was a small resurgence in interest in the work of Stephen King, who had been popularised in the 1970's and '80's as the prime horror author. What was slightly more interesting about this late reprisal, was that the stories were not directly linked to the horror genre, and led to one of the most loved films of the 1990's, The Shawshank Redemption (1994). Whilst this film did not do well in the cinemas, it made it's impact on video, and therefore the more dramatic, cerebral and often realistic King adaptation's were given the green light. Hot off the success of 1995's The Usual Suspects, Bryan Singer was brought in to direct this story of power over other humans, and the devastation this can cause.Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro) is a top student in his high-school, and the film opens on a closing class focusing on the holocaust. The subject has clearly opened up something in the young man. Being convinced that there is an ex-Nazi officer living secretly in his neighbourhood, he decides to pay the man, Kurt Dussander (Ian McKellen), a visit. What transpires is that Todd had collected research on the subject, and uses this to blackmail Kurt into revisiting and verbalising his war stories, with particularly macabre focus on the killing of Jews. As the relationship between the two progresses it becomes clear that what fascinates Todd the most, is the power that was exerted over a people, and he has a hunger to know what this power is like. This begins with his power over Kurt; he revels in a display of power after he purchases a Nazi uniform for Kurt and makes him march on the spot. However the power that Todd exposes, is also resurfaced in the very isolated old man.Well, as this is a Stephen King adaptation, the film obviously leads to murder. But the main theme of the film is the abuses of power, and the corrupting nature of power over others. It's a very interesting film, and Singer's direction is spot on. Seeing this now also highlights the loss of a very promising actor, Brad Renfro, who unfortunately died of a drug overdose in 2008. However, without any doubt this is McKellen's film. He is note perfect for this ageing, lonely man, who has had to live with his knowledge of the concentration camps for many years. The film does tend to lose it's effect at times, and falls into a clichéd trap; for example, after Kurt has attempted to kill a homeless guy, but has to get the young Todd to finish the job after suffering a heart attack, Todd repeatedly hits the tramp with a shovel - a jump moment proceeds as the tramp gets back up after 'being killed' - yawn. However, this seems mainly to be the fault of the narrative, and is easy to overcome, particularly with the two fine central performances.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"1 part Nazi, 15 parts Hollywood jambalaya","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Sadly whatever made the novel good is lacking in this adaptation.Apt Pupil is a movie that feels like a new director took over every five minutes with a different idea of where the movie should go. It creates a vortex that sucks up any chance at emotional connection to the characters or overall film.What little plot there is gets rushed. There are several times when the film is too lazy or simply incapable of properly showing passages of time so it simply cuts to black 'X weeks/months later..' screens.Poor editing destroys any chance to introspect on the conversations between Kurt and Todd. One moment Kurt will be describing Holocaust victims defecating on themselves in the gas chamber and then abruptly a basketball is on screen and Todd is at school in gym class. Then a moment later his friend is talking about dates and parties in the locker-room.The on screen chemistry between Kurt and Todd is that of a wet paper-towel. The characterizations feel wrong and not in an interesting way. Think of an adult being scared of a baby. That's basically what you get. Kurt, a former SS officer who worked in both Bergen-Belsen and the notorious Auschwitz camp shrinks constantly away at Todd who is nothing but an angsty spoiled emo teenager. The movie would've been far better served with a more aggressive stance from Kurt, especially when the movie is attempting to show how evil and 'badass' the Nazis were.Even without any sort of chemistry and with Kurt being blackmailed and forced to dress up for Todd, he abruptly takes a shine to him ala Miyagi style and impersonates being his Grandfather to the guidance counsellor and the movie shifts into Todd's school life and trying to get his grades up.Then it shifts back to them hating each other. Then abruptly Kurt, who is a wanted fugitive who has intelligently and carefully concealed his identity for decades and lived a law-abiding life in the US decides to stab someone.None of it makes much sense and we care even less to figure out why because he doesn't like Todd and Todd seems to be a blossoming sociopath who doesn't like anyone except himself.Ultimately I feel like what I watched was a boy's masturbatory fantasy about having his own private SS officer to dress up, interrogate and harass mixed in with odd and boring clips of teenage high school angst.Not good for a movie that bills itself to be basically a Nazi thriller. "},{"Title":"It has its merits","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The movie Apt Pupil begins with a slow, but definitely solid start. Our protagonist, Todd Bowen, is an honor student at his high school. His history teacher is teaching holocaust week and Todd becomes intrigued and heads off to the library after class for more information.On his bus ride home, he spots a man who looks familiar- a little too familiar. Todd recognizes him to be Kurt Dussander, a Nazi who is being hunted for various crimes he committed during the second world war. After collecting a lot of evidence proving that the man he spotted was indeed Kurt Dussander, Todd decides to confront him. He gives Dussander (who is living under the alias Arthur Denker) an ultimatum; tell me all about your involvement in the holocaust, or I turn you and all the evidence over to the police. Dussander agrees to share his stories with Todd, and thus was the beginning of a confederacy that was to lead both parties involved down a path of darkness. Ian McKellan gives an amazing performance as the sarcastic and witty Kurt Dussander. In my opinion, McKellan definitely carried the movie. He was totally convincing as the seventy-five year-old former Nazi, so much so that it was almost hard to imagine him as the same man who would later play as the vivacious villain Magneto of the X-men series, or the kindhearted and powerful wizard Gandalf of the Lord of the of the Rings. Brad Renfro gave a less thrilling performance as Todd Bowen, the highly intelligent protagonist with a shade for the sadistic. Renfro was too many sullen stares, bored smirks and petulant exclamations, and too little harsh resolve, but at moments he did shine. And perhaps his moody performance was somewhat appropriate to the character, a teenage boy entangled in something from which he could not escape.I cannot accurately draw a comparison between the book and the movie, having only seen the movie, but I can say that from what I've heard and read, the book and movie should be judged on their own merits. The movie isn't so much as an adaptation as much as almost a reinterpretation or retelling of the original story, and has a drastically different ending from the book. All in all I can say that I enjoyed the film- it didn't absolutely blow me away or have me eager to watch it a second time- but it was worth the paltry sum that I paid for it and maybe more. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking and powerful .........","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Ian McKellen is an actor I know very little about, but after his unbelievable performance in Apt Pupil, I am definitely going to seek out more of his films. The story of the student, Brad Renfro, and the Nazi war criminal, Ian McKellen, is both unique and intense. Their uneasy relationship is quite unpredictable as to who actually has the upper hand. At the same time, things seem to be spiraling out of control for both of them. The conclusion is quite chilling, as the sinister Gereman fugitive seems to have taught his pupil well. This film has violence, but it should not be considered exploitation. Apt Pupil is beyond the ordinary, thought provoking, and powerful. - MERK "},{"Title":"Disturbing at times.","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I waited a long time to see Apt Pupil and now I have finally watched it. I was disappointed a little because this was not what I expected, I expected something a little bit more fun but it is still good in it's own way. Ian Mckellen's acting is quite powerful and his German accent is fantastic. I mean, how can a English person speak like a German? Brad Renfro was exceptional but his death stopped him from achieving a successful career. Whats wrong with kids these days? After finding out that his neighbor is a Nazi war criminal, Todd Brown (Brad Renfro),decides to blackmail him into telling him what he did in the concentration camps. Things are going his way and after a while things suddenly change to the worst.Even though this movie doesn't have too much gore or violence it is still an awesome thriller. It is sometimes disturbing because the stories change Todd Brown into something more psycho. Often at time this movie can be a bit slow but then it starts to pick up and the process begins all over like with many other movies.Final thoughts There was definitely room for improvement but if you are watching out for a thriller about Nazis then this is definitely the one you should be seeing. Bryan Singer again has provided us with an eerie thriller which could not match with some of his other work. Stephen King's novel Apt Pupil is an inspiration to the movie. (7.5) "},{"Title":"Psychological horror that's top of the class.","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A movie often overlooked by both Bryan Singer fans and Stephen King fans, I find it a great shame that more people have not given this powerful psychological horror a viewing and come to admire it as much as I have.The bare bones of the plot sees young Todd (played, superbly, by Brad Renfro) stumble across the secret that an old man living nearby is actually a Nazi war criminal (Kurt, played by Ian McKellen with his usual brilliant manner). Instead of immediately unmasking the man or demanding money, Todd looks upon the situation as a way of being told first-hand of the atrocities he finds himself spending more and more time daydreaming about. But as the balance of power shifts it starts to become more and more unclear as to who is gaining more from the vicarious thrills.Anyone familiar with King's uncomfortable source material will be unsurprised to learn that, of course, some things remain unfilmable. Yet, for all that, all of the elements come together to pack a mighty punch and nothing seems diluted simply to pander to mainstream audiences.The performances are all excellent. Alongside Renfro and McKellen we also get some great turns from Bruce Davis, James Karen, Elias Koteas and even David Schwimmer. Every nuanced characteristic is important here and, although the script does a very good job, this movie relies on the performances more than anything thanks to the subtlety of the power struggle and the psychological battle that continues throughout the movie.A fantastic film, up there with Singer's best, and unlike anything else you may have seen. Please seek it out and give it a try though don't expect a comfortable experience.See this if you like Mr Brooks, Cohen & Tate, Basic Instinct. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the book, but still worth watching","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I just finished reading the book and very much enjoyed it and was very tense and disturbing. I just recently watched the film and I did enjoy it but not as much as I hoped.The story kept to the same as the book but i wish they added all the character development like the book, they did add a bit but not as much. The great thing is all the characters from the book are in the film, but I wished we could have seen more of their backgrounds and history. The film does keep you involved in a general way and gives the gist of everything, which is another good thing.Ian Mckellen's performance was excellent as the part of Kurt Dussander. Brad Renfro did very well as well.Filming was very good, especially the editing which was one of the best things.Overall, it was a good film but I would recommend reading the book first before watching the film "},{"Title":"Unpleasant but worth catching","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A young boy (Brad Renfro) who's obsessed by the Holocaust recognizes a former Nazi war criminal (Ian KcKellen) living near him. He starts up a strange sort of friendship with him--he won't tell anybody who is if he tells him true stories about how they treated and killed people in the concentration camps. Things slowly escalate and go out of control.This is based on a novella of the same name by Stephen King (part of his Different Seasons book). The plot is interesting at first but, like the book, it gets increasingly unpleasant as the movie goes on. They did tone down the violence in the original story but enough remains to disturb you. Also it's a little too long and Renfro's constant swearing got on my nerves. Still this is worth seeing.It's beautifully directed by Bryan Singer with exceptional use of color. The beautiful colors in McKellen's house work in contrast with the grim story and I love how the shower scene was handled (Renfro has guts doing a nude scene when he was only 16). Also the acting was just great. Renfro is incredible--hard to believe he was so young when he did this. Sadly he seems to get in trouble with the law so much that he might have completely ruined his changes for a long term career. McKellen realistically fakes a German accent and is just excellent in his role. He really hit it big a few years later with the Lord of the Rings and X-Men movies. Also Bruce Davison is very good in a small role. Dawson Creek lovers might get a kick out of seeing Joshua Jackson in a few scenes.So it is unpleasant and too long but the great direction and performances make this worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Not Your Typical Nazi Tale, Not Your Usual Stephen King","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" High school student Todd Bowden (played by Brad Renfro) is an apt pupil, who excels at just about every subject. After becoming obsessed with Nazi Germany, he suspects a man in his city (Ian McKellen) is a former death camp guard. Todd blackmails the man and they become friends... or so it appears. But who has power over who?I really liked this film. I'm always wary of King movies, because so many directors have botched them. Bryan Singer (X-Men) is not one of those directors, really capturing the crux of the story here and focusing on the Nazi elements. The imagery and symbolism wasn't overdone, yet not underplayed. I found every scene convincing (although I'm not sure how seeing a photo from the 1940s in Germany would make you suspect a man in America in the 1980s).Aside from Ian McKellen (who is now best known as Magneto or perhaps his Lord of the Rings alter ego), the cast is just phenomenal. Joshua Jackson plays best friend Joey and David Schwimmer, whom I normally can't stand, plays the sexually ambiguous guidance counselor with a bad mustache. Even Elias Koteas (Casey Jones from Teenage mutant Ninja Turtles) shows up as a homeless alcoholic, who really shines.The tension in this picture is strong, as the bond between the two friends (or adversaries?) gets stronger. There are times where you don't know who's going to win the power struggle... and once the Israelis enter the scene, it gets even more complicated. You really don't want the Israeli police going after you (as we see in this film).Anyway, this was a winner. It was in the favorites section of Family Video, and I can understand why. We had humor, drama and a touch of horror (no real romance, though -- maybe briefly). A more well-rounded picture would be hard to find for someone who likes movies off the beaten path... this film is unique. "},{"Title":"You have no idea what I can do.","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Here we go again. Why is it that people have to rate films on whether or not they are close to the book. Yes, I read prolifically, and I also watch many films. They are separate activities. Sometimes I want to see a movie because I love the book, but I realize that you can't do a book justice in 120 minutes. I bet Herman Wouk's The Winds of War was not done justice by the excellent mini-series - and it ran 883 minutes!I judge a movie on the screenwriter's and director's vision. In that sense Brandon Boyce (Venom) did an outstanding job of presenting a story about evil and its affects on others. Bryan Singer (The Usual Suspects, X-Men, X2) also did a superb job of directing so that there was not a wasted minute in this film.What can you say about Ian McKellen that hasn't been said already> He was captivating as a Nazi war criminal that was discovered by Brad Renfro (The Client, 10th & Wolf). Renfro was also dead on as one who became consumed by the evil.This was a film that really makes you think. Stephen King may have originally wrote a great novella, but Bryce, Singer, McKellen and Renfro made a film that was equally great. It's a story that we all need to see and remember, and ranks up there with other great films about the Holocaust. "},{"Title":"Repeat ad infinitum &#150; Power corrupts, power corrupts etc etc&#133;","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It was the celebrated 20th century political theorist, Hannah Arendt, who coined the phrase 'the banality of evil, meaning the tendency for people to obey orders, regardless of the consequences. Indeed, the usual understanding of the term 'banal' is 'commonplace' which implies that evil itself can be regarded in the same way. No great revelation there, perhaps...Our societies necessarily impose rules and regulation for the safety and security of the masses, and very few of us protest, for obvious reasons. We obey the rules, the laws, the directions, the guidance and we're all brought up to absorb those strictures until they become second nature. To that extent, we are all apt pupils...But, very few of us succumb to evil in the manner of the anti-hero in this story, Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro). And for that, we should all be truly thankful, no? I haven't read the novella by Stephen King and I don't intend to; so, I have no concerns that the writer and director took liberties with his text. This film stands on it own as a well-crafted and creepy (in parts) exposition of the development of a brilliant college student, Todd, into a near-sociopathic neo-Nazi.Just why Todd becomes obsessed with Nazism and the Holocaust is not clear, although the strong implication is that his personality leans towards the acquisition and use of power over others. He is a strong achiever; he does well in all subjects; girls admire him; his friends seek his advice. In short, he has everything going for him &#150; until, one evening, while going home on the bus, he sees a man whom he believes is a Nazi wanted for war crimes committed in the Second World War.Todd, always wanting to be one-up on his school peers, decides to investigate further, in order to find out the truth about the Holocaust from a true-blue perpetrator. So, he inveigles his way into the home of that old man, Kurt Dussander (Ian McKellen), using his cute college kid approach. And thus, the power contest and battle of wills begins...Todd wants Kurt to tell all, or he'll rat on him to the FBI. Kurt, naturally, wants to keep Todd happy, but soon learns that Todd has a personality profile that matches his own they're both utterly ruthless in their own private pursuits and will do anything to get what they want. So, Kurt concocts a plan to keep Todd quiet and, at the same time, one that will eventually reverse the pecking order. Or, so he hopes. Unhappily for both, the arrival of a street bum spoils everything Todd's world spirals into chaotic horror, trying to keep his and Kurt's relationship secret. And, just how Todd regains his control over that world shows the measure and acceptance of evil as his way of life. An apt pupil indeed...Brad Renfro, an actor I've not seen before this, does a very good job as Todd, while Ian McKellen just cannot be faulted; he is, arguably, one of the finest actors in the world today. Of particular note is when he is forced to don a Nazi uniform again for Todd's pleasure, and we watch as time slips away and it's as though Dussander is back in his prime. Another heavily ironic touch is when Dussander is massaging the street bum's head, while the latter is unaware of the long knife in Dussander's right hand.So, the narrative progresses well, if predictably in short, there were no surprises for me. Pity...but then, I've read here, in the forum, that the ending in the film is different to that in the book. Cinematography and editing are adequate to the job, with some creepy and horrific scenes in Dussander's basement. It's always basements, isn't it?This is a true horror film, so if you're not comfortable with the very, very nasty aspects of abnormal psychology then don't see this film. However, although I'm not a big fan of Stephen King at all, it's the best I've seen of his since Cujo (1983), which was a nice little thriller for all dog lovers and dog haters.So, you might like to see both of these films. "}{"Title":"Just my thoughts.","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Does anyone agree that how overly aggressive both main characters in this film were is a bit over the top? There is no reason why he would be this vicious. The majority of the Nazi military, even those in charge of the most horrid of acts, were not that sadistic mentally. Many Nazis happened to be animal lovers and not even biggots. Most of them were in the military due to desperation to serve a leader who promised salvation, or a simple respect for their country. Some were also drafted into War, without any alternative. Granted this man was specifically suppose to be fairly sadistic in nature... it seems unfair to take something so easily targeted as the Aryan Race and make them seem like such heartless monsters.Also, the kid... he was borderline insane and possibly more inwardly sadistic than the old man. He had no reason to be so messed up in the head. He may have been a Nazi Idolizing Adolescent, but when you get right down to it... there's a lot of those. They're usually cruel or torturous to small animals for the sake of being malicious, as well as selfish, NOT naturally evil. They do it to rebel and seem cruel. This kid in this movie was just... sick. He didn't do it to be cruel, he did it because he WAS cruel. Because he wanted to see things suffer and die.I'm not saying it made the story bad or anything, it didn't. I understand it being a writer myself. It's a good plot device for a Fictional Thriller like this, but they just went too far to get their point across. It lacked subtlety, and just threw the maliciousness in your face. The scene with the cat wasn't necessary. It was a separate scene associated in no way with the storyline that absolutely no sane person would have missed if it was cut from the final film. It didn't make me think Ian's character was more evil, I knew he was. It simply made me think the Writer and Director had problems and wanted to see an animal harmed. Honestly, would it have detracted from this film in any way to take that scene out? And it isn't just that. Immediately after (literally the next scene) is the scene where the boy kills the bird. Why? I understand it's to show that the two are more similar than they think, but I'd like to think everyone knew that to begin with.This movie could have been so much better with just a few changes to it. That's my problem with Stephen King, he doesn't use a lot of psychological effect in his stories, he just comes up with the most dark, macabre thought semi-related to the story he can, makes the whole flow of the story seem calm and relaxed, then suddenly springs it on you for Shock Value.Sadly, the average Horror/Suspense reader is limited in mental capacity and doesn't understand true writing so anything more advanced and artful may either fly right over their head or possibly destroy their mind if they try to grasp it.Tell ya what. If you like Stephen King because of his shock value, stick with him. If you see my point and want more, look up an Author known as John Saul. He's about fifty times more talented and a hundred times more entertaining. Poe might be too advanced for the average person due to his style, but John Saul is a definite, superior alternative to King. "},{"Title":"the old guy","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw the movie I was nailed to the ground, I really loved it that much. There is only one thing that bothers me a bit in the movie and that is the fact that an elder Nazi can't become quite human. When they portrait Denker he is a normal old man, a bit scared but there is nothing in his behavior that would make you think that he is a Nazi. When Todd starts black mailing him the old man stays friendly and helps Todd, I got the feeling there that he regrets his past and that he has changed. When Todd gives him his costume he is filled with anger, so it only adds to my feeling of his regret. Minutes later I really got disappointed for the scene with the cat ... it just proves that no one can make a Nazi become human, they always have to be described as pure evil ... What they did is awful but I guess many of them did things because they had no choice and they were drilled into doing stuff like that. I think when some of them look back at their past they really regret their actions and would do anything to turn back the time. "},{"Title":"Some Terrific Acting, But A Film That Doesn't Push Things Far Enough","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  `Apt Pupil', based on the Stephen King novella of the same name, is a wicked little film that delves into an unholy relationship between two evils, one young and hungry, the other old and experienced . . . . and both dangerous. This relationship is what drives the film, and is what ultimately makes `Apt Pupil' a fairly compelling film to watch. The film fails, however, to deliver a satisfying payoff at its conclusion. While there's a lot of patience and care taken to build the story, there's a feeling of incompleteness as `Apt Pupil' eventually grinds towards its ending. `Apt Pupil' takes its audience on a wonderfully acted journey . . . and then stops short of its final destination, as if it couldn't find the final ounce of courage near its end to push beyond good, ordinary film-making and into the realms of film greatness.`Apt Pupil' is the story of Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro), a seemingly bright, normal, All-American high school student with one secret quirk &#150; he's morbidly fascinated by the Holocaust, viewing it as something dark and cool rather than as something horrifying. He's also incredibly knowledgeable about the Holocaust, which is why he's able to recognize a local old man for what he truly is -- Kurt Dussander (Ian McKellan), a Nazi SS officer wanted for his crimes against humanity. Todd confronts Dussander, telling the old war criminal that he wants to know what happened in the concentration camps &#150; `the stuff they won't tell you in books', as Todd says. Dussander wants nothing to do with this, but faced with having his identity exposed, he is forced to accede to Todd's demands. What follows from there is a malevolent, almost symbiotic relationship that begins to grow and spiral rapidly out of control -- for Todd, it's an introduction into understanding the real face of evil, and for Dussander, it's a reacquaintance with a dark side of his past that he quickly learns to embrace once more.  While Todd and Dussander do not necessarily trust one another, they soon realize that they need each other if they want their secrets protected -- namely, Dussander's real identity and Todd's failure to reveal that identity to the proper authorities -- and people are starting to come dangerously close to learning these secrets, such as Todd's parents, and Todd's high school guidance counselor Ed French (David Schwimmer) . . . .The relationship between Todd and Dussander is the heart of `Apt Pupil', and it's here where the film really shines. Admittedly, the film does open in far too rushed a fashion &#150; it's pretty much Todd immediately confronting Dussander about his true identity; some build-up to such an important moment might've been nice -- but once it stumbles past this rushed opening, it's a joy to watch the cat-and-mouse relationship between Dussander and Todd.  Todd thinks he has the upper hand over Dussander, but he literally has no idea about the slumbering evil he's managed to awaken until it's far too late.  Meanwhile, Dussander is initially a pitiful man, desperately trying to forget the atrocities he's committed . . . but the pity doesn't last for long.  Once Todd forces the old man to acknowledge his past, Dussander realizes that he likes what he used to be &#150; a monster.  Both Renfro and McKellan are fascinating to watch as their respective characters; Renfro because he's so chillingly believable, McKellan because he runs the gamut from being a pathetic drunk to a devil reborn.  Both characters struggle throughout the film to dominate one another, and that conflict &#150; which, in essence, is the foundation of their twisted relationship &#150; is what sets `Apt Pupil' apart from other films as something worth watching.The main problem with `Apt Pupil', though, is that besides acting as a wonderful showcase for this evil relationship . . . `Apt Pupil' doesn't really go anywhere. In particular, the character of Todd Bowden doesn't go anywhere.  More the fault of the script than of Brad Renfro, Todd never comes across as depraved.  He's certainly evil &#150; as some of the acts he commits in the film certainly show &#150; but part of the film is about how monstrously depraved the Holocaust was.  Todd is portrayed as a monster, someone who born in a different place and time certainly could have been a Nazi war criminal, but he does nothing to show that monstrous nature.  I kept waiting for Todd to commit that one unspeakable act of pure evil that would truly make him Dussander's `Apt Pupil' &#150; and never saw it.  Without this unspeakable act, the audience never gets the opportunity to see that Todd really learned anything from Dussander.  (Todd's slightly sick and twisted?  No kidding!  We knew that in the opening credits!) There's a few other things that bring down `Apt Pupil' as well; there's a chance meeting between Dussander and a hospital patient that seems entirely too fortuitous and coincidental; and the casting of David Schwimmer as the guidance counselor is just way, way off the mark.The ending of the film `Apt Pupil' is markedly different from that of Stephen King's novella.  In fact, the novella contains the `unspeakable act of pure evil' that I wanted in the film.  Perhaps if I'd been unaware of the existence of the original novella, I wouldn't have felt that the film was missing anything . . . but I doubt it.  `Apt Pupil' is a good, solid film that touches on some disturbing issues &#150; but it could've been great, had it chosen to closely examine evil instead of just scratching its surface. `Apt Pupil' is a decent, if somewhat incomplete, movie.  Grade B-  "},{"Title":"Better than the book","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Like The Shawshank Redemption and Stand By Me, this is an adaptation of a Stephen King story which actually works.  It does so primarily because writer Brandon Boyce and director Bryan Singer have wisely ditched King's by-the-numbers gore in favor of a far more interesting focus on the characters.McKellen and Renfro put in outstanding performances as the leads. Renfro strikes the perfect balance between innocence and menace, and McKellen is at times legitimately terrifying as the aged Nazi.  (See Richard III for McKellen as a Nazi-like character at the height of his powers.)Overall, this is more tightly constructed than the novella, and dispensing with the ludicrous violence makes it far more credible.  For these reasons, it's more unsettling than King's work could ever be.  Once again Singer has given us a cleverly written, beautifully acted, and finely crafted film.So why did this film do poorly at the US boxoffice?  From the tone of most of the criticism, it's apparently because the film deals with a difficult subject and argues an unpopular case that the horrors inflicted in the name of Nazism were not necessarily a manifestation of Absolute Evil.  They may, instead, have been caused by the activation of a potential which exists in us all - yes, even in the all American boy.  That's not something most Americans want to be told... at least, not on a Friday night at the movies. "},{"Title":"what hype can do for a movie....","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Brian Singer's Usual Suspects; arguably one of the best who done-its ever made.  Apt Pupil should have been an hour long mini-series on ABC.  The film didn't stand up to any of my expectations.  It was too long, far too slow, and I kept finding myself fast-forwarding through most of the movie.  The ending was slightly redeeming, but if it wasn't for my dog barking, I probably would have slept right through it.  Overall a huge disappointment. Rating 4 "},{"Title":"This movie was like Hitchcock on Acid, Crack, X and PCP.","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I will be honest. This movie scared the unholy Dejesus out of me. But then again, so did Cube. Its weird how that works. Movies like this terrify me, but stuff like the exorcist is nothing. Anyways, on to the movie. This movie was like Hitchcock on Acid, Crack, X and PCP. I know a lot of people will disagree, but this movie was the best about Nazis, Aushwitz (sp) and The holocaust in general ever made. The portrayal of a man who never lost his wit in old age, and uses it for evil was brilliant. The portrayal of a boy who uses his knowledge to learn more, and eventually slips to the level of the man he regards as evil is brilliant. The way the music comes in was Brilliant. The way it was edited was brilliant. This one goes on my top 5 for sure. Certain scenes, like the one with the cat in the oven, made me realize how evil the world can be. The scene with the pigeon represented how easy it is to be influenced by evil. Fantastic Film, SEE IT NOW! "},{"Title":"Never Trust A Nazi!","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The reason the story of the holocaust is still so compelling today is not the ultra depravity of the Nazi leadership - rather it is the way that people like ourselves, decent citizens in a normal time, played passive or active roles in it - somehow, we must both comprehend the evil and also understand that had we been there, we would probably have been part of it too.  Another interesting question is how a civilised society should treat those who committed great evil a long time ago.  And at first Bryan Singer's strange film, 'Apt Pupil', seems like a brave but slightly heavy-handed attempt to address these issues.  An attractive teen-aged boy single-handedly tracks down an aging Nazi living under a false name in his home town; and forms a strange bond with him.  This relationship is well portrayed, although the boy's motivation remains unclear, and Ian Mackellan, speaking throughout in a cod-German accent, lends an unwanted air of pantomime to the piece. But this level of ambiguity is clearly not acceptable in an American film, and Mackellan is soon up to his evil Nazi ways again, which we see in a pair of scenes that would have been dismissed as ludicrous if they had appeared in Singer's later film 'X-Men'.  Meanwhile the previously precocious child becomes suddenly stupid when the requirements of the plot dictate.  The ending is clumsily assertive and yet also inconclusive.In my own opinion, all of our actions, good and bad, are committed for mixed motives, some honourable, some slimy; but subject to certain codes of societal and personal restraint. In Germany, those restraints broke down; and revealed the abyss, horribly close to the surface of normal life.  In personalising (and melodramaticisng) evil, 'Apt Pupil' misses the point. The question of how we deal with what we have learnt about what we are capable of, however, remains as pertinent as ever. "},{"Title":"Out-of-the-ordinary thriller","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" From the lessons he learnt in `Sleepers', young Brad obviously benefitted greatly from the older Brad, which gave him an excellent start to a promising career. And he holds up very well in this major role, alongside a brilliant Ian McKellen. An unlikely pairing, but it works well, which keeps you interested in the building up of the two characters. Apart from a couple of bloody scenes - perhaps exaggerated somewhat from Stephen King's story, which I have not read - that I would have preferred to do without, the story unravels coherently, thanks in great part to Bryan Singer's methodical directing. The film is indeed effective as it explores the characteriology of the old Nazi and the young student the clashes as each tries to dominate the other, verbal tussles and persuasions in the claustrophobic confines of the old man's house, and all-revealing face close-ups, all lends to generating a couple of very worthy - even praiseworthy - interpretations. `Apt Pupil' is an out-of-the-ordinary thriller, precisely because it builds more on the two main characters rather than simply putting in a lot of so-called action.I shall certainly keep my eye open for any more films with Brad Renfro I hope he gets the serious roles he evidently deserves. But ..........  "},{"Title":"Worth Anybodies Time","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film was interesting.  I like the way the way the pupil was turning into his teacher, like if evil could be some kind of contagious sicknesses that if you stay close enough of the source, eventually you will succumb to it.  The acting was good, and I like the way that the characters were develop, how the young kid became more and more evil as the movie went along was this movie its finest performance.  The story was different and I guess as close to a classic as you can get&#133;.but not quite.  Even though, the acting of the main characters is something to look forward to, the movie does have some parts or characters that could have being better, but in its sense that's just a minor detail.  If you can, see this movie just for the acting you won't be disappointed.    "},{"Title":"Interesting, but falls short of greatness.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Apt Pupil is an undeniably interesting psychological drama. Bryan Singer's directing doesn't reach the levels of brilliance of The Usual Suspects, but it's careful and technically flawless. His material presents some serious problems, though the movie's moral message is ambivalent at best, and at the end we are pretty much asked to admire the young hero for using his mentor's blackmailing methods so effectively. And the story DOES contain some amazing coincidences that are hard to accept (the kid recognized a man from a 40-year-old photo?). Ian McKellen's performance has been widely praised; I thought that he was never as menacing as he was meant to be. But Renfro is excellent, and David Schwimmer seems astonishingly ideal for his role. On the whole, a gripping movie, but rather forgettable - and it goes on too long.   "}{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen - Evil for real!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is really amazing. I've never seen something like this. If you are about to rent a movie on for the weekend or something, this is a STRONG choice. I give it 9/10. Just that it is so realistic, makes it even better.The second world war's traces will never go away..... "},{"Title":"A powerful and disturbing movie","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Apt pupil was a very good movie.  It was very entertaining. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!!!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film is really good! I'm going to recommend this movie to my friends and family. McKellen, Renfro, and the rest of the cast did a fantastic job! I am saying that in my opinion, this is the best novel by Stephen King that has been turned into a movie.  But beware, the plot has your heart racing in the King fashion! "},{"Title":"bad and wrong does not equal nazi","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I am a fan of Stephen King's work but I would not consider this venture in the realms of *real* world his finest. The creators of the movie seem to know almost nothing about fascism. No matter how hard I tried I could not make the conclusion I was supposed to make, which is what the characters did was caused by their fascination with the all-mighty fascist ideology. People kill, lie and play mind games without being fascists, without being obsessed with super power or superior beings. Take the tortured Germany's past out of the story line and you will get a decent film about twists and hidden corners of human psyche. "},{"Title":"A well acted nightmare","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Contrary to Leonard(Bourgois Reviewer that he is) Maltin, I thought that 'Apt Pupil,' was a good adaptation of the best work that Stephen King turned out.  While it deviates from the details of the short story from the collection 'Different Seasons,' it kept the heart of the piece, albeit giving it a brand new ending.McKellan of course is brilliant, Renfro is very good, though Schwimmer is about as threatening as a wet paperbag when it comes to being a guidance counselor.  Perhaps he should watch Carrie or maybe get some acting lessons from Lisa Kudrow before he tries to be intimidating. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!  (Warning!  Spoilers)","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I first read the Stephen King story about a year before the movie was made.  It chilled me to the bone.  The story is about a precocious young boy named Todd who, through a little detective work, discovers that an elderly German gentleman in his neighborhood is actually an escaped Nazi, Kurt Dussander, who performed unspeakable acts during the Holocaust.  The naive Todd, full of curiosity, threatens to turn Dussander in unless he tells him in detail all about the horrors of his crimes.  Todd is too young to comprehend the evil he is unleashing upon himself, and in the next five years, becomes obsessed and consumed by it.  His adolescent fantasies and dreams become ones of violence rather than sex, until his desire to kill completely replaces all other desires.  He plays society's game, pretending to be interested in school and girls, but in the end, the evil can no longer be hidden and he falls prey to it.  The movie's most fatal flaw is that it doesn't cover nearly the span of time it should.  Todd's *development* isn't a part of the movie at all.  What made the book so disturbing is how young and naive Todd was at the beginning, and how he grew up with Dussander's evil.  I realize this is difficult to do in a movie, but it is possible.  In the movie, Todd is pretty much the same age throughout.  The movie also doesn't get into Todd's head.  Todd's lack of interest in sex is mentioned as a footnote in the scene in the car with Becky Trask (Betty Trask in the book), but it is never developed or explained.  The audience is left saying ...huh??  Stephen King emphasized this aspect of the story in his book for a reason- sex is number one in most adolescents' minds, but Todd cares only about evil.  Even sex isn't important to him. The ending was quite different in the movie as well, but I'm not going to call that a flaw because I thought that Stephen King's ending was rather abrupt.  I can't really decide which ending I prefer.  Neither really completed the story in my opinion.  Psychological thrillers are difficult to portray on screen, I know.  But, unfortunately, this disturbing story was turned into just your average horror flick.  One highlight, though, was the casting of David Schwimmer as the dorky, sneaker-wearing guidance counselor Ed French.  He's exactly how I pictured French when I read the book.  Well, from what I gather from others who have commented, if you haven't read the book, you might like this movie.  If you have read the book, you'll be disappointed.  Either way, I highly recommend the book.   "},{"Title":"Groan","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I sincerely hope Imdb is merely falsely reporting a rumor that Stephen King sold the film rights to Apt Pupil for $1, because Apt Pupil is one of the worst screen adaptations of a King novel. It ranks up there with Children of the Corn and, perhaps ironically worst of all, King's Maximum Overdrive.Apt Pupil is one of the most chilling King works I've ever read with only Children of the Corn being scarier. It's a cat-and-mouse story of a cocky, smart American kid who discovers that man who lives near him is actually a fugitive NAZI--one of the evil high-ranking officers that has thwarted the authorities for decades. But instead of doing the obvious right thing and turning him in, the boy engages in a deadly quid-pro-quo game of blackmail he tells Arthur Denker--real name Kurt Dussander--to tell him everything that is too explicit for the war books and magazines.The novel has a very dark ending, which you'd expect when a person makes a critically terrible decision and then tries endlessly to cover it up. This movie almost completely sanitizes it. Further, Brad Renfro was a horrible miscast as Todd Bowden. He acts nothing like the Bowden in the book. The pacing for this film was all wrong and never allows any of the characters to sufficiently develop. Only Ian McKellan and the well-intentioned efforts of David Schwimmer save this film from being a total skunk. "},{"Title":"a little creepy","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Top high school student Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro) uncovers his elderly neighbor Arthur Denker (Ian McKellen)'s secret identity as Nazi war criminal Kurt Dussander. Instead of turning Dussander in, Todd blackmails him to recount stories of the Holocaust and his inner Nazi is revived. Todd's grades go down and his interest in life suffers. School counselor Edward French calls him in and Dussander pretends to be his grandfather. Dussander turns the tables on him claiming to pull him down with him if the authorities are called in. Todd starts to study again and go out with friends. Then Dussander raises the stakes.This film based on Stephen King's story has its creepiness. Renfro and McKellen do their roles well. After McKellen goose-step in the Nazi uniform, I expected him to convince Todd to his Nazi ways. It would be great for him to persuade Todd to hate. I don't buy his threat to pull him down with him because the situation is easily explained. It makes Todd a lot dumber than I want him to be. Instead of threats, it would be more compelling to lure him by reasoning. As soon as Dussander made the threat, any reasonable kid would go to the cops to spin the story his way and preempt any story that Dussander would tell. It's creepy but I never bought all the way in on this movie. "},{"Title":"The Novalla is better","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I have recently read the Novella 'Apt Pupil' and so decided to see how the film matches up as I was curious to see how certain aspects from the story would translate onto film. Whilst this isn't a bad film, it still falls short of the Novella. There are several reasons for this,but I will think that it can be boiled down to one overarching problem. Whilst Stephen King has 200 pages to build up the tension, this does not translate well to just under two hours of film. Compared to the book, the film seems rushed. I was unable to sympathise with the characters, in particular Todd and Ed French, in the same way as I was whilst reading the story, and would have liked to have seen more of Morris Heisel. The film is perhaps more realistic then compared to the Novella, but I was still disappointed. "},{"Title":"Summer of Corruption","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt Pupil is a simple story about a disturbed teenage boy living in urban Los Angeles. When he discovers that a neighbor of his is a war criminal who used to run a Nazi concentration camp, he can't resist blackmailing the poor old man. However as the film develops the old man begins to turn the tables on the boy and starts blackmailing him instead. A sort of psychological game develops between the two and along with it, an odd, scary friendship. Apt Pupil was originally written by Stephen King but in my opinion, the film is superior to the novel, which I feel is excessively violent and gratuitous in how it described rape, torture, murder and killing sprees. The novel may have done a better job of describing a psychotic mind, but Apt Pupil goes to the trouble of developing said mind and showing how a child loses his innocence and deteriorates into this sociopathic shell. I also like how the film portrayed Dussander as a sympathetic character at first, although I felt the book did that aspect better. Dussander is ashamed of himself for what he has done but as the film goes on, his mind, too, starts to lose itself and he starts to embrace nazism. This film itself is just plain scary in its depiction of human nature and what we're all capable of. Apt Pupil won't be liked by many because it requires an attention span, a tolerance of disturbing and dark material, and an imagination to appreciate. People who dislike this film are missing the point. It's a wonderful story of a partnership between two individuals who each have their demons that they must face, along with some deadly secrets that could cripple their existence. This film is spellbinding and dazzling. If you can take what it dishes out, you will love it. If you have a faint heart, go watch something else. But if you want to learn how two men blackmail each other and how ultimately their plan fails, watch this movie for the psychology of it. The direction by Bryan Singer is superb and the camera-work creates some of the most powerful and tragic scenes in recent memory. The part where the man in the hospital recognizes Dussander is gut-wrenching alone. This is an amazing film. If you want to look into the darkness inside yourself, watch this movie, and then contemplate it. You'd be surprised what you are capable of. "}{"Title":"about  evil","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" a Stephen King adaptation. good basis and seductive invitation for public. and the film is really correct work. tension, performance, levels of darkness. only problem - its message is too obvious. the story desires tell everything. and that everything is great cage for actors and viewer. because the powerful colors has not nuances. and the fight with shadows is a little delicate. but, it is a good film. that fact is not a surprise - Ian McKellen is great at all and Brad Renfro makes the best for his character - but it is something strange and confuse, unrealistic and forced. but the error must be novel author sin. short - a movie about evil. like a mirror almost clear. "},{"Title":"Teenager discovers his capabilities via his relationship with an ex-Nazi","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt Pupil refers to a teen (Todd) played by Brad Renfro, who discovers that a neighbor (Kurt Dussander) was a Nazi at several death camps. Todd becomes the apt pupil of Dussander. In one parallel, Dussander attempts to kill a cat, while Todd kills a pigeon. At the end, Todd threatens a guidance counselor who may expose his misbehavior, using the same threats that Dussander eventually used on him. And in the most direct parallel, Dussander thinks he has killed a man who knows about him, but Todd finishes off the man brutally. Subsequently, Dussander reflects back on the boy the same question asked of him as to how this felt.Todd's evil side blossoms as he exercises his domination over Dussander. Todd is the apt pupil, but he comes to it primed already. Dussander is like a reflecting mirror, and the more that Todd looks into this mirror, the more he becomes the Nazi character that he is seeing there.The story is unusual. Todd is a bright teen who discovers that Dussander was at the camps killing Jews. Instead of turning him in, he blackmails him. He threatens him with revealing his identity if he will only tell him stories of the death and how he felt about what he did. This is not through any kind of conscience or attempt at punishing the old man, played by Ian McKellen. Rather, the boy is fascinated by the evil and seems to want to participate and find out how it feels.As the story proceeds, Todd more and more gets drawn into evil behavior. The old man, humiliated and made to wear an old Nazi uniform, manages to turn the tables on the boy who then, toward the end of the story, scrambles to extricate himself.He succeeds, but not before having damaged his own character, or brought out its evil side so thoroughly, that there will be no going back. "},{"Title":"A solid drama","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Between the making of The Usual Suspects and X-Men Bryan Singer made a small psychological thriller based on the Stephen King novella Apt Pupil. This was a story with a interesting premise but an uneven execution.In California town in 1984 Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro) is a straight A-Level student and at the age of 16 he is already a High School student. When studying the Holocaust he discovers one of his neighbours, Arthur Denker (Ian McKellen) is actually a SS death camp commander and a wanted war criminal. Instead of telling the police Todd blackmails Denker to tell him stories about the Holocaust. Both character slowly end up playing mind games and powerplays with each other and awakening their darks demons within them.The basic idea had a lot of a potential and there were many different directions it could have gone. It could have been the boy finds out about the war criminal and the turns into an examination of the nature of guilt and evil, explore who is really the evil one in the relationship, a look a modern Nazism. The other way it could have gone is the boy could found the secret and does not know where to turn or finds its out the secret after befriending the man.The direction Apt Pupil starred off well enough as it better of wits between Todd and Denker but it slowly turns into more of a horror movie as both characters start to display the behaviour of emerging serial killers. It felt like this was a film wanting to be a thriller and horror more the being a more in depth study which it should have been and what Singer is more than capable of. It was the screenplay that lets the film down with forced moments (i.e. how Denker was discovered by the authorities) to some unrealistic character development.Renfro was a very stiff actor in the lead role and was a truly unlikeable character to lead the film. There was no real charm to him nor the charisma that a character like that needed to make you to make you care about what happened to him. But we were luckily were compensated with an excellent and dark performance from McKellen, playing a character who wants a quiet life and forced to relive his memories and by doing this his old dark and sadistic side.Singer is of course a talented director and he does bring some moments of visual flair involving dreams. There are some creepy looking scenes and the one where Todd was in the shower, the camera pans and changes filter was very well. The pacing is right throughout, Singer and his editor new when to speed up or slow down when needed and the scenes between Todd and Denker were filled with tension. A knife could have cut it as the two men tried to best the other one.There are themes about obsession, violence and the dark nature of humanity. A particular idea that was well done was how people can dream and be interest of violence and the darker elements of life but very different when actually confronted with it.Apt Pupil is the weakest film from Singer's filmography I have seen but it still a well made and compelling film. What lets it down is the weak script that was provided and it was really just a small film for Singer to keep himself busy before he got the X-Men gig (which I am thankful for). "},{"Title":"Nothing compared to the book.","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" They take so many of Steven Kings many best sellers and turn them into movies. For the most part they miss the mark by a longshot with only around three exceptions maybe 5 depending on who you ask these include The Shining, Stand by Me, and the Shawshank Redemtion. Most of his books tuned into movies are terrible and this is one of those.The acting is alright but its nothing like the book at all. The book was very disturbing while this is not in the least disturbing. The story line is not even kept the same. It was the biggest disappointment since IT you should only really watch this if you have not read the book but then again Id just say read the book.This movie is about a young boy who finds out one of the elderly men in his neighbourhood is actually a Nazi war criminal. He ends up blackmailing him into telling him the horrors of the Nazi death camps because the kid has a sick obsession with it. He thinks he has all the control over the old man but the old has his tricks.Like I said this movie is no where near as good as the book. If you want a really intense disturbing book read it stay away from the movie unless there is no chance you will ever read the book. "},{"Title":"ss..nazi","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" what a powerful movie,, first off, for you action fans,, there's not a whole lot of action in here , now with that said, i think you either have to be one of two nationalities to really appreciate this film,, either Jewish, or German,, i am German,, born there close to Frankfurt, anyway the story is about a young boy who find out his next door neighbor is a Nazi War Criminal,, one of those SS Stormtroopers who gassed all of those Jews at Auschwitz, or somewhere very near there, i remember listening to my mother's chilling war tales,, i'm glad she didn't watch this with me, or she would have had nightmares for sure,, i thought that this movie is very thought provoking,, i haven't read the book, so i can't make the comparison to it.. Ian Macllellan did a very good job in here, the kid is played by Brad Renfro, he didn't do a bad job,, but his character is so pushy in this movie,, i'd just wanna slap him around some.. overall excellent story. "},{"Title":"Thrilling and affecting","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a tale of a young guy developing a morbid fascination for the Nazis, who goes on to associate with an ex-Nazi to find out more about the dark side of history.The tale is thrilling and well told. It kept my concentration throughout the movie! The psychological games are clever. Ian Mckellen does a great German accent! Brad Renfro's spiral down morality is also remarkable.I particularly liked the scene where the other patient saw Kurt Dussander in the bed the hospital. The one minute scene has no dialog, and yet it is so intense, so emotional and tells so much. This movie is not just thrilling, it is also moving and affecting. "},{"Title":"Apt Pupil","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I did not view this film in its entirety the first time I was introduced to it. It was during a Holocaust course that I took during my junior year of high school, that my magnificent teacher decided to show this film to the class. I was horrified by what I saw, yet heavily interested in the psychological elements that followed Nazi war criminals. It was through this film I was persuaded to choose a term-paper topic on Josef Mengele, an infamous Nazi doctor who contributed to the thousands of deaths at the Auschwitz concentration camp. Our class did not finish the film and it slowly retreated to the back of my mind.The following year, I took a Sociology course, taught by the same wonderful teacher I had the pleasure of learning from the previous two years. However, our task was to pinpoint specific examples of deviance that occurred throughout the film. This time, my class finished the entire film.I thought that Apt Pupil was a perfect example for both of these classes. It not only showed historical and psychological aspects of World War II, but it also was relevant to discussions of deviant behavior. It is a complex film, yet provides insight to many questions of social behavior, psychology, and other social sciences. I would recommend this film to any student or teacher, who is trying to obtain knowledge of 'why people do the things they do'. It is a perfect example of one individual's personal transformation due to societal influences and norms. However, not all people would have reacted in the same rational behavior as Todd. But maybe the film tries to show that all of us possess a little deviant behavior; how we choose to live our lives is completely under our control. "},{"Title":"Another Enjoyable Adaptation of King","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Sure, Apt Pupil had its flaws. But it still succeeds in the most important places.The casting for this film was excellent, and Brad Renfro turns in an amazing performance as the honors student turned groupie, while Sir Ian MacKellan delivers another stellar performance as a former Nazi soldier who is wanted for his acts during the Holocaust.A story of loyalty, suspense, guilt, curiosity and most importantly, understanding, Apt Pupil was directed amazingly by one of the best in the business in my humble opinion.7/10. "},{"Title":"Bryan Singer, an excellent entertainer...","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There's no doubt about it Bryan Singer is such an excellent director, a great entertainer. He's made it clear in the so addictive X-Men I & II, but he had already probed his skills in Apt Pupil a good rhythm that goes in crescendo, the characters has been wisely defined, and no fancy stuff at all...OK, in the plot there are some coincidences that are pretty unbelievable, but this is only fiction and, anyway, the responsible for that is Mr. Stephen King, the author of the story Singer based his movie on.*My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"Hey, less critics","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" First, I wanna apologize for my English, in my country the language is the Spanish. Now, I read the book and I loved it (as many other King's books), and I think that the movie is OK, I can't think in a better Todd, and Ian McKellen is just perfect for Dussander. I know that the movie doesn't show everything that appears on the book, but which movie based upon a book does? And, beside, the ending is so much more terrific, not quite realistic, is truth; I don't know you, but I prefer a killer discovered that a perfect psycho asking me on a date the same night that he plans to kill some homeless. In enough words, the film is as good as the book, just different. "}{"Title":"Sinister","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Wow, what a dark movie! The setting and the atmosphere is wonderfully staged. The interaction between Brad Renfro and Ian McKellen is perfidious, the way they control and manipulate each other is shrewd. It's not so much the visual horror, but the psychological terror that infiltrates their minds. The clinical calculating and the subtle viciousness of both main characters make this movie sinister. Thus the acting to attain this effect has to be very good, what it is indeed. Well thought-through, nice cast, straight acting. It's a fine game of cat-and-mouse, sometimes you don't even know who is in control and who is controlled. I think this one does justice to the original artwork by Stephen King, though the very end differs a bit. "},{"Title":"Not Bad.","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSThis film is based on a short novel by Stephen King (it can be found in his collection Different Seasons, which also includes the stories which inspired The Shawshank Redemption and Stand By Me).  The plot deals with an American high-school student who becomes fascinated with a fugitive Nazi war criminal who is living incognito in his neighbourhood.  The boy forces the war criminal to tell him details of the atrocities he committed.The film deals with the lure of evil.  The boy starts off as a fairly normal kid, who seems to have a bit of a morbid turn of mind, until his fascination becomes much darker.  At the same time, the Nazi starts to rediscover his old ways.The subject matter is something that could very easily be dealt with in extreme bad taste, but director Bryan Singer handles it fairly well.  The main flaws in the film are a lack of character development.  The regular life of the boy (and how the Nazi's influence affects it) isn't really dealt with much.  Except for some discussion about his falling marks in school.The cast is superb, particularly Ian McKellan as the elderly Nazi and Brad Renfro as the boy.  Friends star David Schwimmer is good in a small role. "},{"Title":"Awful movie","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Sir Ian McKellan and Brad Renfro star in this film about what happened during the second world war through the eyes of a Nazi war criminal. Brad Renfro plays Todd Bowden a student who wants to probe into the life of a nazi war criminal who lives next door to him. Todd uses everything he can to get info from Arthur Dussander played by McKellan. Todd uses blackmail in order to get what he wants but it soon backfires as McKellan reverses the game as he plays with Todd's mind. This movie missed with me because all it did was skate around what happened and instead of taking something away from it, I saw nothing but psychological games being played that didn't quite cut it for me.If I wanted to see better psychological games I could have rented The Silence Of The Lambs. Apt Pupil wasted the talents of McKellan and Renfro with a lame story. It had a lot of room for improvement. This is not a movie I would jump out of my seat and go to the video store to rent the movie again. "},{"Title":"Apt Pupil (1998)","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Apt Pupil (1998) is one of the first movies in a long time that genuinely disturbed me. Adapted from a novella by Stephen King, it is the story of a high school student (played by Brad Renfro) who has an unhealthy obsession with the Holocaust; when he learns that a former Nazi (played by Ian McKellan) who worked in concentration camps during the war is living secretly in his town, he decides to blackmail him with his history in exchange for hearing stories of his past. My first reaction to this startling introduction was that it was too far-fetched for Renfro to actually have dusted McKellan's mailbox for fingerprints in order to run a match with his search warrant, but by the end of the movie, the only thing I found far-fetched was that he didn't do anything even MORE extreme. Because the true horror of the film is not the Nazi, but the boy who gradually turns into one. While I won't reveal the progression of the plot, I WILL warn animal lovers that you'll most likely wince at more than one time. Personally, I've never been very unsettled by King's writings I loved Kubrick's adaptation of The Shining (even though it's a well-known fact that King didn't) and Rob Reiner's Misery, but neither of them really bothered me -- perhaps because in both of them, we at least have someone to root for (Shelley Duvall in The Shining and Paul Newman in Misery). But in Apt Pupil, both of the principal characters are equally evil. Obviously, this is not a film for everyone but for those with an open mind and a taste for psychological thrillers, Apt Pupil will prove to be a very rewarding experience. McKellan's and Renfro's performances are both outstanding this very year McKellan had a similar role as mentor in Gods and Monsters, but by making a 180-degree turn here, he proves that he can do just about anything. As for Renfro (who made his debut in the 1994 Susan Sarandon-Tommy Lee Jones thriller, The Client), I think we should all look forward to more from him. The supporting cast is a combination of teen television stars (Friends' David Schwimmer and Dawson's Creek's Joshua Jackson) and big Hollywood names (Joe Morton and Elias Koteas). The script is razor-sharp, and Bryan Singer's direction is superb together, they manage to create tension out of practically nowhere. It is rumored that when King heard that the director of The Usual Suspects was planning to do Apt Pupil, he sold the rights for one dollar; after viewing the end result, I can see why. Apt Pupil is not a perfect film ... in fact, it's not even a particularly great one. But that's hardly the point the point is that after a year filled with thrillers that didn't make me jump, here's one that did.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Finally, a film with no moralistic lesson!","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers, perhaps?  Apt Pupil is Bryan Singer's follow-up to his highly successful '95 release The Usual Suspects, and he does a very proficient job with the chilly story (adapted from a Stephen King novella of the same name).  I remember reading the psychologically disturbing story as a child, thinking, `Man, this is some truly scary s**t!' - thankfully, Singer sounds the gavel on my former judgment with a nice loud thud (insert sound of lifeless body hitting the floor here). Brad Renfro (Tom & Huck, Sleepers) plays Todd Bowden, a 16-year-old honor student in an LA high school who transforms from typical all-American to snarled Nazi mentor after studying the Holocaust in school.  Discovering SS war criminal Kurt Dussander (Ian McKellen) in his hometown, Todd (a history buff who dusts the mailbox for fingerprints) blackmails the old man into sharing the horrors of war with him, urging him to linger on the immoral details.  But, as Dussander reveals his evil past, the two begin a psychological game of cat and mouse that spirals out of control as they begin to `need' one another too much. The cast is flawless and there are some truly horrific scenes; not horrific like Friday the Thirteenth or anything, just memorable in a more sinister way!  And although David Schwimmer's moustache is positively abominable, he turns in the best performance of his entire career as a nerdy high-school guidance counselor named Ed French.  And here I never thought I'd like the guy! On a deeper level, Apt Pupil focuses on the real evil that lies beneath the whitewash of Suburbia, applying the horrors of the Holocaust as a backdrop while prompting viewers to question what depravity really is.  In that respect, the film tips its hat to David Lynch's Blue Velvet, succeeding as its characters slowly regress.  Eventually, bodies get buried in dark basements and animals buy the farm, but the film sticks with its unfavorable will the whole way through (typically un-Hollywood).  At last, a film with no moralistic lesson to be learned that toughs it out for the bad guys until the very end!  "},{"Title":"A nio-nazi emerges","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so excellently disturbing that it makes you question yourself.  Apt Pupil is about a selfish, bratty boy Todd, who is an outstanding student and a fair athlete.  In class Todd does an assignment on a nazi extermination camp leader, one night on the bus he spots him.  The kid takes pictures of him, dusts his mail for fingerprints, which turns out to be a perfect match.  The kid orders the retired nazi to tell him stories or he won't leave alone.  The kid starts to become absorbed in these stories, he buys the old man a nazi extermination soldier costume.  He orders him to put it on and march.  Suddenly Todd's grades start to drop, and he orders the old man to forge him a note to the guidance counsler.  The kid is called down to the office and finds the ancient german there posing as his grandpa.  The old man starts to murder again, and drags the kid into it too.  The kid turns in to a monster.  Unfortunately the kid starts to get fantasies of murdering the old kook.  Will somebody find out Mr. Dussander, (the nazi) 's identity?  If so both of them will be ruined.  (Especially if they check the basement!). "},{"Title":"Disturbing but entertaining","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of the most disturbing movies I have seen.  Ian McKellan gave a spectacular performance, as did (somewhat)newcomer Brad Renfro.  I wouldn't really call this a horror movie as it was advertised to be, but surely suspenseful.  Good plot, great acting...I thought the ending was particularly amusing...I give this movie an A "},{"Title":"A chilling movie","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not an adept of the thriller ar horror genre (yes, I get nightmares at night....) ), but I thought this movie was worth watching as it promised a good character study, as stated by another reviewer.Sure enough, it did provide. It depicts with brutal clarity the prevertions that can be hidden for years under a blanket of normal suburban banality by an old german nazi officer; and those that can arise in a smart kid fascinated with the history of the period.As the movie progresses, a hate-love relationship develops between the two. They are fascinated by the life and tales of each other but are also compelled to continuously ascertain some kind of power over the other. Each one being threatened and threatening the other with some kind of unspeakable secret.The movie gave me chills (but perhaps I'm too sensitive to this genre; more hardened fans will surely think this is very soft), helped by the music (like those Wagner operas on a grammophone) and the cinematography. The plot is a little bit cliched, but it does entertain in an intelligent manner.Overall, I think it's definitively worth a good look. "},{"Title":"Evil prevails","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie a few years back I automatically wrote it off due to its lack of faith in the horror of the Stephen King novella on which the film is based.  Now, after viewing it for a second time with a more open mind (and lack of remembrance of the King story), I am much more accepting of 'Apt Pupil'.  Bryan Singer has created a movie that effectively succeeds in displaying mental games and the resulting horrors and anxieties.  Much of the film is dedicated to an intense back-and-forth psychological battle between the two main characters, played beautifully by Brad Renfro and Ian McKellan.  But much of the greatness of 'Apt Pupil' lies in the depiction of a curious youth during his most crucial stage in the maturity process.  A stage where one boy's single decision has the possibility of changing the face of his whole life.  Also, it is a stage where evil tendencies and curiosities have the steady ground to solidify within one's personality.  The film illustrates the learning and progression of evil within a single human being as well as within human nature as a whole.  An excellent character study, but with a few holes that the filmmakers obviously trust the audience to be intelligent enough to fill in themselves.  Very intriguing. "},{"Title":"Brooding study in evil down the years","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen King seems to get lucky with movies. His bog-standard novels seem to get transformed into some screen gems, of which Green Mile is by far the most superior, but other shorts like 'Carrie', 'Sometimes They Come Back' and 'Thinner' have risen from nothing special on the page, to something well worth watching in movie form. Apt Pupil is no exception to this rule - not Schindler's List by a long shot, but at times utterly captivating. On the down side, the film is a little too convenient to be true - the scenes with the pigeon, the cat, the tramp and the old Jew can be seen coming from a mile off, and how handy that the one person to happen upon Dussander's true identity is the same who has a morbid obsession with power and death. But of course this is the point the film makes - how evil spreads almost through osmosis between people and between generations. The parallels between Dussander and the 'pupil', especially in Renfro's confrontation with David Schwimmer's guidance counsellor at the end, are fascinating, but at the same time somewhat predictable. We've read King, we've seen his films before, we know what is bound to happen. Nevertheless, the progression Renfro's character makes from bright spark to obsessive power-junkie is not overall as trudgingly inevitable as it might have been. The 'uniform' scene is a classic set-piece, and through some good performances from Renfro and Mckellan we get, in a simple snapshot, a good idea of the characters of both. The film is an uneasy mix of grittiness and high school horror cliche at times, but as a whole is haunting, thought-provoking chiller, especially effective at combining the old Nazi's feebleness and sadism in the same figure. To be viewed as a balancer between the depravity of 'Salon Kitty', and the magnificence of 'Schindler's List' as part of a very cutting insight into the Nazi mindset. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A thoroughly engaging movie. The story of an old Holocaust perpetrator being recognized and captured in the USA is not new, but this version is a chilling and thoughtful version. I was completely absorbed by this very well played and executed movie. One point to watch for is cinematography that often frames the main character within scenery before zooming in on him; perhaps a subtle message is hidden there? "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I think Apt Pupil was very good. Sir Ian McKellen is an extremely good actor, who played this part just right. He was very convincing in the part. Brad Renfro is brillant. He demonstrated the  All-American teenager. He is a fabulous actor with great potential and also with stunning good-looks. He will go far. Together McKellen and Renfro create a relationship that is a love-hate one. They are both great actors who pulled it off well.The young boy, Todd, (Brad Renfro) forces the eldely man, Dussander,  (Ian McKellen) to tell him stories about the horrible things the Nazis did to the Jews during WW2. As time goes on, Todd becomes more and more distrubed by the stories that Dussander is telling him. He has nightmares. He becomes shy and angry. Once a top student and now his marks begin to fall. When he used to care about his marks, by the end, he does not care anymore. This story shows how someone can be corrupted by power and greed. Todd bought Dussander a SS uniform, because Todd wants to see it on Dussander. Todd orders him to march. If Dussander does not do what Todd orders him to do, Todd will call the police - they might be interested to find a wanted war ciminal! Todd uses his power over Dussander to do what he wants. He is very manulating and he is also very persuasive. But as time goes on, Dussander theatens Todd by saying that if Todd tells everything, Dussander will tell everything too, but Todd will also get into trouble for knowing the where-abouts of a known war ciminal and failing to tell the police. It is a very good story with an excellent cast and there is some fantastic acting on McKellen and Renfro's part. The film is a bit different from the novel. Stephen King's novel is fantastic. He is a genuis and he certainly knows how to keep his audiences' attention. Over all out of 10 I would give it 8.5. It is very good!!  "},{"Title":"one monster creating another","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting film about a boy, Todd, discovering a fugitive SS-officer, Dussander, living in his home town. Then forcing the former Nazi to narrate about the war or being turned over to the authorities. The idea of one monster creating another is quite fascinating depicted in this film; Todd by Dussander, Dussander by Himmler (his superior officer during the war) and Nazi-Germany. There were a few things about the film that disturbed me, like two people recognizing Dussander after five decades, but overall this was a fascinating film and certainly worth the time. Then again Bryan Singer and Ian McKellen rarely disappoints. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been so much more","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who has not studied the Holocaust has no idea what evil is. Anyone who has not read the casually molevolent testimony of Randolph Hoess at Nuremberg about why zyklon B was so much better than carbon monoxide, or the interviews with Broucher as he inspected the slowly withering bodies of starving babies to ensure they were dying efficiently, or the reports of survivors of Auschwitz of the eye experiments of Doctor Mengele, or seen the racks upon racks of preserved children's brains recently uncovered in a University in Vienna, cannot truly comprehend the dark depths to which the human soul can descend. Given that this film perports to use the legacy of the Holocaust to explore the nature of evil, one would expect it to take the audience with it into those depths, to give the desenitised viewer a glimpse of hell. It cannot; it is too timid. The gradual tainting of Todd's soul as he exposes himself to evil like a junkie with a needle should have been the focus of the film; instead the script minimises its impact, while Brad Renfro delivers a performance that is too flat to capture the subtle viciousness that Ian McKellen's Nazi is slowly feeding him. If the film had been true to the hideousness of the Holocaust, it would have focused on the psychological battle between the two characters, a gradual dance of insanity that lead to their mutual dissolution. Instead in transforms into a typical Hitchcockian domestic thriller, complete with a body in the basement. What a shame. The Holocaust is a story that needs to be retold. No film has managed to capture its true evil, not even Schindler's List. No filmmaker would dare upset his audience that much. I thought Apt Pupil would be the exception. "},{"Title":"Solid, enjoyable, drama that fails to capture the power of the novella","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  `Apt Pupil' is an almost successful adaptation of Stephen King's excellent `Apt Pupil' novella. It tells the story of Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro), a star pupil who is obsessed with Nazism in World War 2. He admires the sheer control, and power of the empire &#150; the evil acts perpetrated by them are irrelevant next to this. When he discovers that Kurt Dussander (Ian `Gandalf' McKellen), an ex-Nazi commander, has moved into his town, he blackmails Kurt into telling him tales of the old days in return for not revealing Kurt's true nature.`Apt Pupil' is a tale of morality or, more precisely, amorality. Bowden is a control freak, revelling in sharp precision. Renfro is very good in his role generally, his soft good looks belying the cold nature underneath. Real credit must go to McKellen though &#150; starting out as an old man, we can see the buried evil awaken as Bowden forces him to confront his past. This is never the more clear when Bowden forces Dussander to dress up in an old Nazi uniform, and watches, almost horrified, as Dussander's old past resurges itself with frightening authority.Bryan `Usual Suspects' Singer is a great choice of director for this movie, as his style is sharp and clear, like the characters he is filming. The shadows are crisp, the actors visibly focused. This meticulousness is what the film needs.However the film is not perfect. The pacing is somewhat slow and uneven. There is not always a great sense of what direction the film is heading in. It also pales in comparison for those who have read the original material &#150; the true disturbed nature of Bowden is not adequately explored, and instead he has a touch of a one dimensional cold calculated nature about him, rather than exploring why he is this way. The final resolution is satisfying, and disturbing, suitable if quite different to the original ending penned by author Stephen King.Overall the acting (David Schwimmer aside), and direction, help out a script that sometimes can be quite uneven. There's not enough here to make this a great movie, but instead just a reasonably good movie. That's a 6/10 then.  "},{"Title":"10 out of 10!","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Looking at some of the old user comments on this film, obviously nobody understood the film.First of all, if you're whining about how good the novel was, and then watched the movie, you're an idiot, plain and simple.  A book is one thing, a movie is another.  Go cry about that.This however, is a movie on a fantastic book.  I don't think that in a short 2 hours, the movie did bad at all.  It is an excellent job done right by Brian Singer as the director.  I didn't expect less of him or more, it was perfect.  Especially the similar scene to Usual Suspects where Todd is driving his bike and all the scenes that led up to the moment flash through to him until he trips on a branch and crashes.  Awesome movie.  I can't even express how awesome Ian McKellen is.  He's just amazing as an actor.  The part was played by him and I can't even imagine anybody else playing it. Great movie, a must see.  It lines up as those Stephen King movies that are actually good with IT, Pet Semetary, the Green Mile and The Stand.  For you idiots reading this who are bashing something you don't understand or disappointed because you were watching a movie instead of reading the book, then go to a library next time and refrain yourself from the theatre or video store.  Big Difference! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"The apt pupil","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the movie on TV just yesterday. I was thrilled. A both amazing and terrible story of a boy who discovers a secret. A man in the neighborhood is an old nazi war criminal. He finds evidence that old Mr. Denker is Kurt Dussander, who led the KZ camp of Patin. He blackmails him. He must tell him everything about the war. What happened in Patin... In all those years Dussander have feared that the man hunters from Mossad would find him. Dussander did very terrible things during the war. But he seems as a normal old man. But in the end the kid actually learns something from him. "},{"Title":"Not a bad transalation, by any means.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Having been a huge Stephen King fan most of my life, I'd have to say my second favorite of his writing (IT would be my first) has to be Different Seasons.  In that book, he put together four of the best stories I've ever read in my life.  Two of those were already made into highly succesful movies (Stand By Me and The Shawshank Redemption), so naturally, The Apt Pupil had to be the third.Being as it is, this is certainly not a bad movie, I feel like screenwriter Brandon Boyce and director Bryan Singer did some corner-cutting and left out some of the story's key moments which stole a lot of the film's overall impact.  While it may be unfair to compare a book to a film, this, I feel, is certainly one that could have been done more justice.The Stephen King version of Apt Pupil was a pretty-short story of a young, obsessed teenage boy who blackmailed a nazi for his own sick, personal knowledge of the holocaust.  While the movie makes that point clear, it failed to show and let us know just how sick the Todd Bowden character really was.  The film version takes place over the course of one year. The written version covers several years and, in that time, Todd does some extremely heinous things. For example he takes a hankering to slaughtering weinos.  That's right. And not just one, as shown in the film (hell, he didn't even do it, the old man did) he kills a BUNCH of them.  His grades start to go down-hill and his social life suffers.  He is literally obsessed with hearing every minute detail of the old man's experiences.  It's simple tell me everything or I tell the cops.  The old man, trying to live a peaceful life, hiding from his past, is forced to open old wounds just because this little brat wants to hear about it!  It's downright infuriating.I'm very sure that Hitchcock would've had a field day with this tale.  No doubt, he could've condensed it to a thirty-minute episode and we still would've gotten the point.  Yeah, I'm probably being too harsh in criticizing the film version, I just expected more.  I especially expected more from director Bryan Singer.  Then again, had I not read the story before seeing the movie, I probably would've gotten more out of it.One more complaint before I end this whole thing.  The character of Edward French (Rubber Ed), I pictured as a Ned Flanders type of character from reading the book.  In the movie, he had to be played by the ever-annoying David Schwimmer.  Who's idea was this?  I mean, who needs to come get their ass-whoopin'?  I'm serious here.Had I not read the story before I saw the movie, I probably would've given it a 9 or so.  Well, I actually DID read the novella and, since I did, I'm gonna be liberal and give it an 8.  It was anenjoyable and engrossing film and despite what I said above, it is worthy of your time.  I just wish that the film-makers hadn't wussed out and given us the version that we really wanted. "},{"Title":"Engaging Performance By McKellen","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ian McKellen dominates the screen in this adaptation of Stephen King's tale of a former Nazi Offical and the teenaged neo-nazi who discovers his secret. Brad Renfro as the teen lacks the screen presence of acting ability to pull off his role and therefore leave the film unbalanced and lacking a strong ending. Sir Ian on the other hand turns in a bravaura portrayal which show why he is indeed the greatest actor working today.His cruelty and obsession are wonderfully balanced by his confused desent into paranoia.  Is also nice to see veteran actor James Karen in a cameo as Renfro's grandfather. "},{"Title":"Terrifying book, mildly disturbing film","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  While I found this adaption of SK's novella to be quite enjoyable as an individual film, I still feel it is another lacklustre King adaption which could have been so much more.I was disappointed that Bryan Singer felt he needed to omit some of the sub-plots from the book, such as the revised (and much weaker) ending although I can understand his intentions as he probably deemed some scenes such as the killing of animals and tramps to be too much for your average audience.On the whole I found Apt Pupil to be reasonable and a little disturbing in places, unlike the book which was plain frightening. 6/10. "}{"Title":"Ummmmmm.......Sorely Disappointed!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard lots of good things about this movie. I am rather fond of Stephen King......But this Movie......I didn't like it. Maybe it's just me. I was expecting, to be frightened, freaked out, Stirred Emotionally...nah... Didn't happen. Oh Well! "},{"Title":"An interesting look at Nazism","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I admit that I did not expect much of this movie. I know Bryan Singer directed The Usual Suspects, a classic, but he also was responsible for X-Men. And I'd heard mixed reviews of it. But, Brad Renfro was great in the Cure, as was Ian McKellan in God and Monsters. Plus, I got it cheap so...Renfro plays Todd, a high school student who's top of his class, and a great baseball player to boot. He develops a fascination with the Holocaust and researches as much on it as possible. One day, he discovers that an old German man living up the road (McKellan) is in fact Kurt Dussander, a wanted Nazi former concentration camp officer. He assembles a ton of information on the man and collects proof of his identity. He then blackmails him Todd won't inform the Israeli authorities if Kurt will tell him all the stories about the Holocaust that they don't tell us in school.It starts off harmlessly enough, but the stories begin to weigh on Todd's mind, and his school results go down. He also begins to develop a disagreeable behaviour towards his friends. His obsession grows in one scene he gets Kurt an SS uniform and orders him to march, feeling he now has complete control over Kurt. He also kills an injured pigeon, a parallel to Kurt's attempt to kill a cat by putting it in an oven. But Kurt is pure evil, still a dedicated Nazi and Todd makes the mistake of crossing him. It is no longer Todd who controls Kurt, but the other way around, as they begin to resemble each other. The ending scenes are particularly unstirring...This is an interesting look at Nazism and evil. They are contagious, evil spreads. Todd, facinated with what Kurt did, doesn't realize that he is becoming like him. And Kurt, haunted by what he did, still can't rid himself of his evilness. It's a chilling portrayal of the psychological power the Nazis had over people. As Nietzshe said, the desire of power animates us, guides our actions. Here, it makes us do evil.Singer redeems himself with this. There is great acting, especially from McKellan and Renfro, though the latter doesn't live up to what he had me expecting after seeing the Cure. Stephen King, who wrote the book of Apt Pupil, is a genius and this is one the best adaptations. There are also some great camera techniques, too. A truly gripping drama.Uppers 1)The gripping portrayal of the Nazi mind and it's terrifying influence; 2)McKellan's performance; 3)Renfro's performance; 4)Singer's directing; 5)The creepy light effects; 6)The ending scenes Downers 1)David Schwimmer's moustache; 2)Not quite as good nor as creepy as Marathon Man  "},{"Title":"What a bad movie!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  What a good direction spoiled with such a bad script. I mean the dialogues were good and the symbolisms even better but what about the rest?It was just another movie Look how bad nazis are.or Look how many nazis live around us.NOTHING changed in the whole movie and the WORSTNOTHING new was discovered.WE KNOW THESE THINGS, YOU DON'T HAVE TO REMIND US. Wasn't Schindler's List enough for the rest 30 years? That was a VERY good film though. Not that bad attempt of showing a psychological-background that it's not there at all.NAZIS are bad.KILLING is bad.We know that. We need something new from a movie.AMERICAN HISTORY X Gives a good SOLUTION to the problem. Not just THE PROBLEM. Or watch SCHINDLER'S LIST. That gives a good aproach to the goodness people have deep inside.Let's make good movies. Fresh, new, giving solutions, giving reality, giving beauty.Thanks for reading me. "},{"Title":"apt acting by Ian McKellen","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  (spoiler, possibly) Ian McKellen plays a Nazi war criminal who has successfully hidden his past and lived in America since escaping conviction. In a time when we happily watch heroes fight evil robots in futuristic worlds it is striking to see something as convincing as McKellen's portrayal of Kurt Dussander - this evil on a monstrous scale is so clearly made human in an unremarkable American neighbourhood. This more than anything what made this film worth seeing.The apparent weakness of Dussander when first confronted by Brad Renfro's character is more striking on a second viewing, when the contrast with Dussander's later behaviour really shows. The scene where Dussander is ordered to march and gets so thoroughly into the role that the blackmailing teenager is horrified by what he sees - this is powerful viewing. The loneliness of the old man is shown so well by cutting between Dussander sitting alone outside, talking to a cat, while young Todd is in a car talking to a fine young lady. McKellen plays it all so well, and as we might guess, the Nazi war criminal starts to play the game himself, very convincingly.Despite the quite suburban setting, there are some horrible scenes which set out the idea most clearly that we are dealing with something worse than we can easily comprehend. Nightmare visuals are used to great effect, but the most moving of all involves no special effects at all, just a minor character acting. This film is dark and in places very unpleasant, but in some parts there is also a substantial amount of emotion, suddenly building up and almost getting carried away. With Ian McKellen's brilliant performance as well, I rate this film highly. "},{"Title":"Evil Empire","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The greatest thing in Apt Pupil is the ambiguity which rules in the movie. There is an old man, which was a cruel Nazi during the war and a young American boy who discovers the truth about his identity. So, it can seem that the Nazi is the evil and the boy is the good but it isn't so. They are both two champions of evil, because the young Todd blackmails the old Dussander and menaces him to tell to the city who he is. if the Nazi wants to keep him silent, he must tell him all the secrets of the tortures of war. They made their diabolic pact and Todd falls in a hell of death and suffering, absorbed and involved by it. Dussander is old, probably he wants to forget what he did and live the rest of his life persecuted in silence by his ghosts. Not Todd. he is animated by a thin hate and curiosity for evil, he thinks to be a sort of super hero, blackmailing the old man, but he is a man worst than him. it's impressive the scene when Dussander walks, dressed like a Nazi and Todd tries but he can't, be cause the man is completely possessed. Brad Renfro and Ian McKellen give two great performances, the first confirms himself as one of the best actors of his age with a killer look and an evil mind, the second is still great, intelligent and magnetic (like his new character in The X-Men!). Look at their eyes, they hide in themselves all the cruelty of the world. "},{"Title":"I should have known better..","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I should have known and learned from experience ... most screen adaptations of Stephen King's writing suck, and never watch a film where the lead role is played by a teenager. I'm afraid many critics on this site are overselling this flick - surely destined for Sunday afternoon snooze t.v.McKellen sleepwalks through this (so as not to wake you up) and is never convincing as either a sadist or an old nazi- A sub-B movie performance. Compare with his virtuoso Richard III - or look at Olivier in Marathon Man - it can be done. The art of cinema includes making unbelievable scenarios believable and entertaining. This fails on both counts. I knew we were in trouble when the boy's family insist on meeting this old man he's spending every evening with, and are completely satisfied after he's told a couple of jokes. The dramatic tension could be compared with a tightly stretched green bean.And the aforementioned teenager is not an apt pupil of McKellen in acting! The best performance was from the cat, (in another ridiculous scene) - he jumped out of the window never to be seen again at the earliest opportunity.Could have said something about corruption, evil, redemption, or lack of it but ended up being boring and shallow. I had to check my pulse at regular intervals. Null Points - and shame on McKellen for a performance that he would surely better on his own holiday videos! "},{"Title":"Decent dark movie","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Apt Pupil is about an ordinary high school boy who has a deep fascination with the Holocaust. He suspects that his neighbor was in league with the Nazis back in the day. The boy then goes to the old man to get tutored and slowly but surely gets the oldman to dish details about the Holocaust. The boy's fascination turns into obsession. Story moves alittle slow sometimes but when it takes it's plot turns, the atmosphere picks up. Decent display of darkness in peoples hearts. This film makes a good point that psychos can be everywhere in modern suburbia. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Holocaust and conventional horror do not mix!","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"   When I was a teenager like the character Brad Renfro plays in Apt Pupil, I had my first encounter with the Holocaust and was compelled to know more. For me, Schindler's List provided much of that inspiration. Today, I am still grappling with this past reality, trying to understand how our world could sink to such a despicable low. The key difference between our little friend in this film and myself is I used books and other films to answer my queries. Renfro goes for the preposterous angle he blackmails a former Nazi war criminal living in the neighborhood to tell him stories of his horrific past. This is not what I had in mind, and it's a good thing I didn't, or else I could have been the subject of a bad film like this one.Ian McKellen delivers a great performance as the ex-Nazi in question, known as Kurt Dussander but posing under an assumed name. McKellen really digs into the character, physically and vocally. However, his great work is marred by a terribly conventional script that begins with inspiration and turns into a depressing horror melodrama. Not meaning to spoil anything, but why would an ex-Nazi ever be intimidated by a seventeen-year old boy, let alone a homeless drunk? If you are attempting to hide out in America, why let anyone into your residence in the first place? I liked the coldness of his character, but I was also searching for more complexity and insight from him into a subject which I knew quite a bit about. This I did not receive.To add to this sour picture, I really disliked the Renfro character. If this intelligent brat was really that smart, he would be smart enough not to cross a former Nazi for fear of being killed or alienated too much for his own good. A safer way to research the Holocaust up close would be to interview a Jewish survivor of the blitz rather than one of the perpetrators. There's an almost laughable scene where Renfro walks by an old guy in a hospital bed who evidentally recognizes McKellen as his old nemesis, who happens to be in the bed next to him. Wouldn't it have been easier for Renfro to question this old dude instead of a decrepit Nazi  who just wanted to be left alone? I suppose that would be too simple. Rating One star and a half. "},{"Title":"Fear of the Unknown","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Prolific horror writer H.P. Lovecraft once wrote that (paraphrasing) the oldest emotion of mankind is fear, and no fear is stronger than fear of the unknown.Those words seem to apply to all of Bryan Singer's films.  In Public Access, The Usual Suspects, and Apt Pupil he creates singularly evil characters, let's them do terrible things, but doesn't offer a great deal of insight into their deeper nature.It is a storytelling decision (which I believe is conscious, not sloppy or lazy writing) that seems to bother many critics and vieweres.  Why does the stranger in Public Access choose to spin his web in the small town?  What makes the young teen so fascinated by the Holocaust in Apt Pupil?  Who or what the hell is Keyser Soze?We never get to the bottom of it, but I think that what makes the characters so extraordinarily creepy.  It's the same kind of eerie feeling when one contemplates the teenagers at Columbine, or serial killers like Jeffery Dahmer.  What motivated them, at what point did these human beings deviate from the norm and become monsters?  In real life, I don't believe there is a single answer.  We can blame television, bad parenting, drugs, the economy, the government, unpleasant bosses, etc.  But it always comes up inadequate.  But I think that your average American hates this lack of clarity.  People want to know what makes a bad guy.  It gives a person relief to know that they aren't the monster, they they are the good guys.  But the truth is, you never know, and never will.  Maybe there is no reason, which is the scariest reason at all.  Apt Pupil offers a few short glimpses of what makes Brad Renfro's character tick.  He appears to be extremely intelligent, signified by his good grades and graduating as a high school valedictorian.  He is disciplined and methodical, in both his textbook research of the Holocaust and his painstaking gathering of information to blackmail Ian McKellan. But the above details are just tools.  Knowledge and brainpower end up becoming the servants of a cold, distant, and dark personality.  But why?  His homelife looks good, he plays sports, doesn't appear to be a social outcast and has solid friendships.  What went wrong?  What made him what he is?Isn't that question scary? "},{"Title":"Fear of the Unknown","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Prolific horror writer H.P. Lovecraft once wrote that (paraphrasing) the oldest emotion of mankind is fear, and no fear is stronger than fear of the unknown.Those words seem to apply to all of Bryan Singer's films.  In Public Access, The Usual Suspects, and Apt Pupil he creates singularly evil characters, let's them do terrible things, but doesn't offer a great deal of insight into their deeper nature.It is a storytelling decision (which I believe is conscious, not sloppy or lazy writing) that seems to bother many critics and vieweres.  Why does the stranger in Public Access choose to spin his web in the small town?  What makes the young teen so fascinated by the Holocaust in Apt Pupil?  Who or what the hell is Keyser Soze?We never get to the bottom of it, but I think that what makes the characters so extraordinarily creepy.  It's the same kind of eerie feeling when one contemplates the teenagers at Columbine, or serial killers like Jeffery Dahmer.  What motivated them, at what point did these human beings deviate from the norm and become monsters?  In real life, I don't believe there is a single answer.  We can blame television, bad parenting, drugs, the economy, the government, unpleasant bosses, etc.  But it always comes up inadequate.  But I think that your average American hates this lack of clarity.  People want to know what makes a bad guy.  It gives a person relief to know that they aren't the monster, they they are the good guys.  But the truth is, you never know, and never will.  Maybe there is no reason, which is the scariest reason at all.  Apt Pupil offers a few short glimpses of what makes Brad Renfro's character tick.  He appears to be extremely intelligent, signified by his good grades and graduating as a high school valedictorian.  He is disciplined and methodical, in both his textbook research of the Holocaust and his painstaking gathering of information to blackmail Ian McKellan. But the above details are just tools.  Knowledge and brainpower end up becoming the servants of a cold, distant, and dark personality.  But why?  His homelife looks good, he plays sports, doesn't appear to be a social outcast and has solid friendships.  What went wrong?  What made him what he is?Isn't that question scary? "}{"Title":"Apt film","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The possibilities of the subject matter is never reached with Singer's film.  The acting is great, but the first half founders as the screenwriter gives us no character motivation.  I felt like I was watching a play that was just getting to intermission.  The whole Nazi angle is very scary, but why is Renfro fascinated with Ian, and vice versa?  It redeems itself partially when Schwimmer arrives on the scene, although the end is still a letdown.  I give this a 7, and take umbrage to those who classify it as a horror film.  Not everything Stephen King writes is horror! "},{"Title":"Flawed assumptions about the nature of evil","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with the comments of Shannon Box and I will go farther.  While there were sadists, and many ended up in the Einsatzgruppen or as SS camp guards, the men who caused the Holocaust of the European Jews, Polish Catholics, and others, were psychologically normal, in the sense in which we use that term to describe everyday human behavior.  The film distorts the truth about the Holocaust of the European Jews by portraying a principal character as a twisted and evil man-- someone who would put a cat in the oven, knife an innocent man, etc.  In truth, Hoess, Eichmann, and other KZ or death camp commandants and architects of the Holocaust were not different psychologically than you or I.  Read their own writings-- read the accounts of Himmler's getting sick watching 200 Czechs machinegunned in Prague-- Heydrich had to hold him up to keep him from fainting-- the next day he issued orders for humane executions ... Hannah Arendt's comments on Eichmann come to mind, or those of the U.S. Army psychiatrist, Gilbert, who examined Eichmann-- the personality of a common mailman-- more normal than I am, after having examined him.  This film does a fundamental injustice to the truth by portraying the Nazi murderers as mentally sick people, not as the same people we can find in any government or military, including our own.  The lesson from history and research is not that there are evil and sick people and that we should look out for them.  The lesson is that the people who staffed the death camps for Hitler were normal people, not different from those we find in business, industry, government, and the military, today.   Vernon R. Padgett, Ph.D.,     Social Psychology, Ohio State University, 1985.   "},{"Title":"Well-acted and chilling","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie because the trailer looked amazing. It was truly one of the most interesting and well-done trailers I had ever seen for a movie. While the movie may not have been a masterpiece, it was still a VERY good movie. Brad Renfro and Ian McKellen both give wonderful, realistic performances, and the subject matter is both intriguing and repelling. There is a lot more going on here than in your typical scary movie. It was just creepy and created a wonderfully quiet mood that disturbed me throughout much of the movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"It's all about repressed sexuality people!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A boy afraid of his own sexuality finds out a secret about his neighbor and turns it into a psychological power struggle.  In this case, the guy is a nazi -- but in this film, he could have been a plain-old serial killer or child molester ... anything.Leveraged secrets allow an intense psycho-sexual game of S&M throughout this pic.  Witness the ending where the boy makes threats to another with the one thing he is most afraid of.  As McKellan says, ...we're fucking each other. "},{"Title":"*** out of ****; Grade B-","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Disturbing film about a high schooler's obsession with Nazism and the old man down the street who is blackmailed into reliving his Nazi experiences with the young man. Exceedingly well acted by Renfro and McKellan, with good pacing and creative visuals. However, the Holocaust is used as a simple way to make a man and his lifetime evil; it may have been less morally ambiguous to make McKellan's character a retired serial killer instead. This still would have been tense, disturbing stuff. "},{"Title":"Slow burner which sizzles without boiling over","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Bryan Singer's Apt Pupil is a credible interpretation of Stephen King's unsettling novella. Singer deserves praise for removing the unnecessarily gory elements from the book and focusing instead on the psychological warfare waged between Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro) and Kurt Noorsander (an excellent Ian McKellen).The film falls down when it tries to show the breakdown of the previously model student Bowden in relation to his new relationship with Noorsander.  Renfro appears to have difficulty displaying the obvious inner demons which would torment a teenager in a similar situation and could have been helped with some more dramatic nightmare sequences.  The scene in the shower was frankly ridiculous.As McKellen begins to play a more significant and less passive role, so does Renfro begin to shine.  Learning from such a master craftsman can only hold the youngster in good stead for future roles.   Overall, Apt Pupil manages to convey successfully the way in which power and fear seduces even the most normal of people. "},{"Title":"A GREAT CHILLING THRILLER","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised over how well this movie was made, it get`s in to your bone. I`m glad that the movie was so good because it`s an important type of film. Great actors, great director and a great feeling after you see this movie. A chilling movie, if you know what I mean. And it is a movie based on Stephen King!!! "},{"Title":"Another Stephen King Masterpiece","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  `The Evil Within' Apt Pupil rated R, 1 hour and 40 minutesThe malevolence hidden inside of one man is so powerful it can lash out at a young boy and possess him as well. In doing so, a chain reaction is formed, resulting in a whole town being capsized.In Apt Pupil, Todd Bowden, played by Brad Renfro, is the boy who becomes so obsessed with the Holocaust to a point that he needs to know more about it than the school will provide. He wants to know the details that no textbook would dare print. Todd Bowden wants to know how it feels to kill someone. He thirsts for all the hideous facts about the genocide that took place during the Second World War. Bowden is remarkably bright. He has kept tabs on his suspicious next door neighbor, Arthur Denker (Ian McKellen), and as it turns out, Arthur Denker is actually runaway Nazi general Kurt Dussander. Dussander is blackmailed by Bowden to tell him everything that he had ever wanted to know about the near extermination of an entire human race. All of the fear-inspiring information commences to get to Todd's head leaving him awake throughout each night. Soon, he becomes transformed into a loathing human being, ignoring his best friend, lying to his parents and teachers, and killing crippled pigeons. The plot builds up, and on several occasions, it seems like the movie is about to end, but instead, it goes on more dramatic than ever.The acting by Brad Renfro and Ian McKellen is astounding. The two of them take on their roles perfectly, and go deep into their characters, which is distinctly evident in the movie. They take histrionics to a new level. The one scene that is exceptionally captivating is where Bowden forces Dussander to dress up in a Nazi uniform he gets from some costume shop and orders him to march in place. The former Nazi general at first does not take the boy seriously as he playfully walks in place. Then as Todd yells at him more and more, and Dussander begins to lose himself in the continuous commands, he becomes increasingly involved in the act. Within a few minutes, he is dynamically marching. The steps grow more violent and more intense with each word that Todd exclaims. Todd becomes frightened by the man, and demands that he stop. Dussander continues as if Todd had not spoken. Repeating himself numerous times, Todd ends up yelling for him to halt. The general regains his consciousness, and from then on remains as abhorrent as he once was in his younger days in the war.Apt Pupil is a suspenseful psychological thriller that truly succeeds in winning over the audience. The movie in general is very well executed with a disturbing yet outstandingly canny plot created by the master of horror, Stephen King.Surprisingly mild in gore, Stephen King's Apt Pupil, directed by Bryan Singer, also starring David Schwimmer, is entitled to a very apt B+.  "},{"Title":"Apt Pupil vs. Inept Script","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen King's novella APT PUPIL would seem ideal fodder for the silver screen.  After all, his lengthier efforts like STORM OF THE CENTURY and THE STAND often seemed bloated and over-long.  Surely this sub-compact King would fare much better.  Unfortunately, APT PUPIL is apt in most every way but one the script.Within the film's first minutes, high school athlete and straight A student Todd Bowden (an interesting Brad Renfro)has hastily recognized a local recluse on a bus (the ever-classy Sir Ian McKellan) and impudently labeled him as a Nazi war criminal.  Immediately our narrative sets aside character development and insight into the minds of our two principals and goes right for the plot. With this groundwork, all incidents that follow seem unfounded and irrational.  Todd comes off as ridiculously naive (for such a scholar) and McKellan's Nazi superficial and deluded. The film reaches a real low point when the elderly Aryan attempts to pop a stray pussycat into a pre-heated oven! It is only in the fine performances by McKellan and Renfro that any substantive reality emerges from the material. This is an excellent premise ill-served by a bad script.Outside of our two leading men, director and cinematographer must also take bows for what turns out to be a fine looking and neatly paced saga.  Imaginative lighting and frame composition turn what could have been mundane into something visually arresting.  A well-meaning David Schwimmer as Todd's misguided guidance counselor fails to break free of his TV Friends, despite a false moustache and eyeglasses.The film's nifty final turn-about fade-out is well-played and worth waiting for, despite the shaky ground that these apt pupils constantly stand upon. "},{"Title":"On a much-neglected aspect ~~The Music~~","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Nevermind the film for now-- more than a hundred other people have shared their luminous opinions about THAT. What is infrequently mentioned, however, is John Ottman's score. It stands as one of the most vivid and beautiful movie soundtracks in recent years, thanks to Ottman's persistent use of the 'demon waltz' motif, which I actually think he employs more successfully than, say, Danny Elfman (who has a tendency to go overboard with it).Bryan Singer's CD liner notes are right on in highlighting the music's ethnic irony-- indeed, it is the haunting violin that truly carries the soundtrack, as though acting as an unspoken voice for the millions of dead Jews. Todd's tinkly piano theme is also incorporated well, portraying both his clean-cut industriousness as well as his budding psychopathic tendencies.Then there's Das Ist Berlin, and while it isn't by Mr. Ottman, it so cheerfully injects itself into the most awful of moments in the film (like the ending!) that one can't help but love it.  The CD is definitely worth checking out...and it also makes the perfect background music for reading the novella! "}{"Title":"Stuck to most of the novella....but they caved on the ending","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I like many feel Apt Pupil, the novella, ranks up there as some of SK's finest writing. It shocks many non-SK fans to learn that two of the most endearing movies of the last ten years (Shawshank Redemption and Stand By Me) were penned by Stephen King. That's why his name is buried in the credits the directors knew the novellas were great and wanted everyone to see them on film on the merit of the story not the author.Apt Pupil was originally bought and cast back in the 80s with then Ricky, now Rick, Schroder as Todd. It never made it to film until this version in 1998. Renfro does a good job as Todd so the wait didn't hurt it.In light of the school shootings of recent times, it is plausable they took the high road in creating the ending the film has (which does work by the way!). The it's Hollywood's fault battle cry might have prompted them to change it, esp in light of the lawsuit against the Basketball Diaries folks for Leo's dream about shooting up his classmates.But hey, the movie makes a good rental. It was entertaining and held your attention so what more can you ask for these days? "},{"Title":"'Apt Pupil' is a dark and disturbing film.","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  'Apt Pupil' is a dark and disturbing film. Ian McKellen goes from benign to chilling and Brad Renfro gets progressively more chilling. The movie is really a psychological study of these two characters how they effect each other in frightening ways. It is an interesting but ultimately depressing experience. "},{"Title":"Powerful performances from the 2 leads in a gripping psychological drama","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Very powerful performances from the two principals make this film gripping viewing. Stephen King's novella has been sanitised for film and some of the impact has been lost. But the psychological battle between Bowden and Dussander, and their dependence on each other, is still fascinating. Ian McKellen gives an even stronger performance here than in his Oscar-nominated role in Gods and Monsters, but young Brad Renfro is not left behind.  "},{"Title":"a very hard movie to watch","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This whole movie is about Nazi. But it goes much more deeper than that. The whole idea of the movie is to show as that there is almost nothing that keeps us from doing something. Like killing.Brad Renfros character changes through the movie. From being naive to being a man who he once wanted to know about. "},{"Title":"Very Good Psychological Thriller","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Movies based on Stephen King works are always a hit or miss affair, but this one does indeed work. This is really more of a psychological thriller film than a strict horror flick for which he is known. The performances are quite strong as well, and Brad Renfro is quite believable as the student/provocateur. "},{"Title":"A good film only if one hasn't read the book.","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film, purely as a film, was not bad at all.  Acting (Sir Ian McKellan in particular!), direction and production values were hard to fault. However, the adaptation of King's novella can only be called timid. One should either DO an adaptation or NOT do it.  If you pay good (probably excellent) money for film rights, there should be much more willingness to trust the author and go all the way with him.  Otherwise, use an original screenplay, which can be a committee-conference-generated entity from the get-go! I was most disappointed!  "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, good acting","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The performances by Brad Renfro and Ian McKellen are excellent. I think this movie was very well done and although this is not the Usual Suspects, Bryan Singer is proving to be a very apt director.  Although this is a story about a young boy who discovers a Nazi war criminal living in his neighborhood, I felt the story was more about the dark side of human nature and what humans are capable of.  I find it very interesting how Bryan Singer can lead you through a story without bopping you over the head with it, like the scene where Todd had Dussander dress up in his Nazi uniform and he just started to regress back to what he had been in the war---very scary.  It disturbed me also how Bryan Singer could elicit mixed emotions for this heinous murderous criminal, I hated him, he was a wretched old man and yet at times I felt empathy for him as his life was so pathetic.  I thought it was a great movie!!!!  And to all those naysayers, at least there was thought and good acting put into this movie, not like let's hire some macho types and blow things up for 2 hours--that'll sell some tickets.  Sad thing is it does.  "},{"Title":"High school kid develops unhealthy interest in the holocaust and loses it","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Bryan Singer should be watched very closely. He is more than likely going to be the foremost thriller director of his generation. Apt Pupil is a classic. The story is engaging, the performances are riveting and the direction is precise. This film differs from his previous work (seven) in that it relies less on graphic images of evil and cruelty and more on psychological ones. Make no mistake. apt Pupil is every bit as disturbing as seven. Sir Ian Mckellan is simply a joy to watch. His transformation from an old man trying to forget his past to Nazi sadist proves once again just how good an actor he is. Probably the biggest and most pleasant surprise lies in the form of young Brad Renfro last seen in Sleepers. But best remembered as the title character in the Client. Brad Renfro is probably the best young act to come out of Hollywood in a long time. The kid can act . No question. In every scene he has with Ian Mckellan he proves again and again that he is more than a suitable equal.This is crucial to the plausibility of the story. The most disturbing  aspect of apt pupil is just how detached his character (Todd Bowden) is. I find it hard to think of any other young actor that has the ability that young Brad has. His performance is reminiscent of Edward Norton's in Primal Fear. He is definitely a face to look out for. The film is sometimes slow, but never boring and always engaging. The dialogue is effective and the power struggle between the two lead actors makes a Tyson fight look like Sunday on the shopping channel. I wouldn't recommend it to the faint hearted.  "},{"Title":"Excellent performances make for a quietly gripping film.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Given the recent debate over the lack of moral direction of young people in general and the expression of that lack in violence this is a timely film examining a sensitive subject. I am unfamiliar with the Stephen King novella from which it was adapted but the film seems to me a convincing portrait of a teenager, Todd Bowden, struggling to find clean and simple answers to life who becomes alienated from his friends and family when those answers come from the most poisonous of sources. The two central performances are first rate and there are some chilling moments, especially towards the end when a teacher falls victim to the ruthlessness Todd is able to apply to anyone who questions his actions. It is not a great film and the examination of evil is far from deep but there are aspects of this film that are disturbing and that ring true.  "},{"Title":"Stephen King sort of translates to the big screen. . .","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Considering that, it's not too bad.  Most of King's books don't translate at all.  Is it just a coincidence that two of the best films from his books are not actually horror stories?  Stand By Me was also good.  Of course, The Shining and Misery are good too, but when stacked up against all his other horror movie failures (Pet Sematary, Cujo, Children of the Corn, the list goes on and on), it seems that suspense is a better movie medium.  Sure, Apt Pupil has its slow moments, but overall, the acting is good and the story is alright, even though it doesn't follow the book exactly.  But it's close enough for jazz. "}{"Title":"slice-of-life scary","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ok ok I'm not a big fan of Stephen King adaptations which this film is. (Although the movie Carrie has one of the most frightening scenes ever for first time viewers).  Something is lost between the mediums, and it's a shame.  His track record in the written word speaks for itself.  It's the carry-over to film where things get muddled and condensed and subsequently lose perspective.  Bryan Singer directs as he did in The Usual Suspects (an excellent movie--by the way----who will ever forget Keyser Soze as every bit evil as Silence of the Lambs Hannibal Lecter) and does a very good job handling the two main characters.Relative new-comer Brad Renfro and Shakespearean Ian McKellen give stellar performances as the leads and are actually, the only part of the movie worth watching.  Don't get me wrong on this movie----this is a psychological thriller brought to the suburbs, if you think about it.  It's slice-of-life scary as pi**ed-off postal workers or kids with guns.  It's relevant and haunting how a little knowledge and mean-spirited manipulation can be used to beguile anyone.  Particularly engrossing was the uniform scene and the march back in time.  It sent shivers down my spine.This film definitely has a message but lacks outside the two leads.  A weak supporting cast---aside from Friends co-star David Schwimmer who was alright as the wimpy guidance counselor, and a lack of reasoning for this kid's dark side to surface like it has----makes me give this movie a good 6.5 out of 10.  I think I'd like to see the sequel to this movie more. "},{"Title":"A film that had a truly frightening and morbid premise, but that is reduced to a succession of uninspired moments...","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Boy obsessed for the Nazi and the death of millions of Jews,black people and homosexuals in the concentration camps,ends up getting closer to a seemingly peaceful old man who lives not so far from his house, after discovering that he was actually a former-torturer and Hitler's soldier, responsible for commanding the Patin's camp, where one of the biggest and most brutal genocides of the History was promoted, during the Second World War. After elaborating a complete dossier that confirms the real identity of the old man, the adolescent threatens him and demands him to tell all the truth about the massacre and the details that the teachers don't dare to comment in the class rooms, giving start to a learning that can cost his mental health. Film based on a Stephen King's book, directed without daring and inspiration by the overestimated Brian Singer (who was the man responsible for the acclaimed The Usual Suspects). Slow and without an agile rhythm, Apt Pupil is just a common thriller, that had a great potential and could have been turned,by a director with more expertise,into a touching and scary motion picture,in the style of The Silence of the Lambs, but that fails and sins for retaining in few inspired moments, for not exploring with fidelity the fear and the horror of the nazi's revolting and irrational concepts. Stephen King's original frightening and enervating best seller was not translated with fidelity for the book's details, and Brian Singer wrongly bet that sanguinary scenes are more important than the psychological fear. In spite of that, Apt Pupil is worth of a seen, for the great performance of the great English star Ian McKellen and the small,but fundamental, presence of the excellent Elias Koteas. Apt Pupil is rated for scenes of strong violence,language and brief sexuality, and it runs 111 minutes. >  "},{"Title":"As good as Usual Suspects - in another genre!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great.The photography is beautiful; The actors are wonderful - especially BRAD RENFRO - and the Brian's Singer direction is as good as in his Usual Suspects. Nevertheless, if you are too sensitive, don't watch this movie. Some scenes are terrifying the last scene with David Schwimmer is GREAT and let your imagination deduces the future of the APT PUPIL. "},{"Title":"Nazism gets the afterschool special treatment","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  APT PUPIL one of those rare movies that attempts to be more subtle than its literary source, and it fails for that reason. Especially in the wake of Columbine, a film that offers some insights into a teenager's fascination with Nazism has obvious social relevance. But Todd Bowden's transformation from honors student to fascist is too perfunctorily drawn; neither does it have anything interesting to say about Dussander's guilt (or lack thereof) or his feelings of victimization by Todd. I don't consider Stephen King a great writer, but he is willing to push the envelope of taste, taking what are these days pretty sensitive subjects--the seductiveness of evil, the amorality of superficially good kids--and finding a core of true horror in them. This tepid adaptation lacks such conviction, if you can call it that; consequently, it doesn't work either as psychological thriller or over-the-top gorefest. "},{"Title":"King novella is no history lesson but delivers chills with icy performances.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This much we all know about Stephen King first is the fact that he turns out 900-page books every 2 or 3 days. The second is that some are made into movies - which, by and large, haven't all been that well received. Apt Pupil, on the other hand, falls into a different category. Based on one of King's novellas, this little story translates quite well onto the big screen - helped out by fine acting and inspired  direction.Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro) is a bright youth with a kinky mind who begins to suspect that a particularly heinous kind of evil resides in his white-bread suburban neighborhood. It turns out that one of the community's senior citizens, Kurt Dussander, is actually a Nazi war criminal. Instead of telling the authorities however, the boy decides to blackmail the old guy and, with Nuremberg-like zeal, he collects enough historic and forensic data to convince Dussander he knows his true identity. Then, perhaps motivated by an evil that lurks in his own heart, the kid proceeds to pump the ancient monster for detailed accounts of his atrocities.The disturbing relationship between old man and boy is compelling enough by itself to sustain our interest. But as the two begin to engage in a psychological dance of wills, we start to grasp that the stakes in this mind game may be higher than we first supposed. When the balance of power between the two begins to shift, Todd realizes that the price of the knowledge he seeks may be his very soul.Part of the film's chill is generated by director Bryan Singer's knack for showcasing a King trademark - the frightening juxtaposition of true evil with the seemingly prosaic quality of everyday life. With the additional support of a well-crafted screenplay, Singer maintains a surprising amount of tension throughout, with adept manipulation of scenes revealing the story's twists and turns. Credit for this also goes to the actors - McKellan's goose-stepping scene develops an especially goose-bumpy frisson, showing us the unspeakable evil lying behind his character's watery old eyes. And Renfro is both photogenic and effective as a disturbed adolescent with more brains then conscience.If there is a problem with Apt Pupil, it is that the film is mildly in love with itself - becoming especially drawn out near the end. Some might also find the ending a bit anticlimactic.Overall though, you won't be disappointed - and might even develop a tendency to gaze a bit longer than usual at the next old man you see on a bus.  "},{"Title":"Loose ends spoil this one","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those films that you leave asking the wrong kind of questions. Why the homosexual undertones? Did I miss something? Why is the girlfriend character, Becky, even in the film? Why David Schwimmer? To my mind, a big star in a small role is usually when the role is pivotal and important beyond the few scenes he or she is in.There are redeeming features. McKellen is brilliant. The film handles a very sensitive subject with integrity. It is morally damning of Nazism, without being preachy or labouring the point. Ultimately, though, a disappointing film.   "},{"Title":"Excellent Premise, But Room for Improvement","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this film last weekend, and I must say it was not everything I hoped for. Perhaps because I expected something more along the lines of the classic good guy/bad guy conflict, rather than a mentor bad guy teaching an apprentice bad guy. I would have preferred something along the lines of Renfro showing up, making McKellan confront his demons, and McKellan embraces those demons he's shunned for so many years since. Then McKellan would attempt to suck Renfro in, but Renfro would struggle against it. Rather it's an old guy and a demented student blackmailing each other and being really shrewd, and in the end, you're left with this empty feeling, like you totally missed the point of the flick. Maybe this one went over my head, or it just wasn't what I wanted. Overall, McKellan did a wonderful performance as always, although Renfro still needs a while to go before I take him seriously. "},{"Title":"The Usual Suspects was SO much better.","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed with this movie.  The Usual Suspects was excellent. The movie was not as scary as the previews portrayed it to be.  I have not read the novella Apt Pupil, so I have nothing to compare it to.  It is a movie worth watching once, for the excellent performance by Ian McKellan. "},{"Title":"A Big Disappointment","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was really disappointed by the film version of Apt Pupil.  But then, Stephen King's stories are rarely well-adapted to the screen.  I enjoyed the novella much more than the film...the original story is more intense and has a better (though probably not show-able) ending.  "},{"Title":"unsettling failure","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  An unsettling, technically proficient adaption of the Stephen King novella that ultimately fails in its intent because of a simplistic screenplay. Fine acting by Ian Mckellan & Brad Renfro and an interesting atmosphere provided by director Brian Singer, but neither are enough to lift this movie much above average. "}{"Title":"I expected more","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is an example how complicated it is to make a movie based on a Stephen King book. But I'd read a lot of good comments about the movie, and the actors were good, so I went to see it and all I saw was a wrong way to translate Stephen King's work. He is complicated, strange, and the movie was too simple. just Stanley Kubrick could take the main idea of King's literature on the shining.  "},{"Title":"Highly disappointing","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Having read Stephen King's highly excellent original, I was incredibly disappointed by the film adaptation. It seemed like it was constantly pulling its punches, making the lead at high school graduation age instead of a young boy, and softening many more aspects that I will keep silent about, in case anyone cares to read the story (which I recommend, it's from the book of short stories called Different Seasons). The original version aside, I also expected a lot more from Bryan Singer stylistically. I found The Usual Suspects to be positively captivating, and Apt Pupil just fell short. It lacked in story, and didn't make up for it with style. Granted my expectations were high going in, but this film didn't even come close to the greatness it should have been. "},{"Title":"saw it","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this with my dad and one of my best friends. I thought it was the best. It was very powerful and intense! I gave it a 9. I would have gave it a 10 but the abuse on the cat (i am a cat luver) was too much. also if a teen watches this with a parent, there is a nude scene. I'm also a fan of Brads, I think that is the best and greatest preformence that he has given. Well out of the many I have seen him in.~maria "},{"Title":"scary, very realistic","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very dark, frightening and depressing movie.  I do not recommend it to anyone who is already depressed or who doesn't have all their mental faculties in good order.  I also feel that no one under the age of 18 should see this movie even though the pupil himself was very young.  Plant the seed and it grows!  "},{"Title":"Good Movie, but only half a King","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Apt Pupil has a bad reputation, and that's a shame. Bryan Singer has made a good movie, with a great story and some great acting. The movie follows in the beginning Stephen King's novella really good, but half way through Singer makes Mr. Denker the really bad guy, a part Ian McKellan acts to perfection, and Bowden becomes a really apt pupil compared to Kings figure. Kings story is GREAT, if you havn't read it do it now, but I still like the way Singer tells the story. It is a dark story about how cruel mankind are, and ever will be.  "},{"Title":"Sir Ian McKellen does Evil brilliantly.","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was not incredibly impressed with the ending, but there were enough plot twists to keep my interest going.Sir Ian does a great impression of Evil, and Brad Renfro shows great promise. "},{"Title":"Amazingly boring","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I read the King novella about three years ago, and found Apt Pupil to be a good, but sometimes a bit boring story. Still, parts of it were interesting and personally, I got the feeling that it was less about the Holocaust than about the individual story of two humans, but nevermind my rambling there...Now, the only thing the film made me do was wonder if I should leave the cinema early or not. The characters aren't given enough space to develop, whereas the informative part takes up too much of the film. If you want to see a film about the Holocaust, go and rent a documentary. If you want to be constantly bored for two hours, go see Apt Pupil. "},{"Title":"NOT BAD, NOT BAD AT ALL....","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Apt Pupil is not the best of its kind but it's far from the worst.  It's not a horror movie, to begin with, it's a drama.  I was expecting it to be slightly more disturbing than it was.  The only part that struck me as particularly unsettling  was the first dream sequence Todd (Brad Renfro) has.  Besides those few moments, the rest of the film was comfortably bearable for me.  It was also much better, in my opinion, than Stephen King's original story.  If you're looking for a dark, interestingly morbid movie, this one MAY suit your tastes.     "},{"Title":"Proof once again that Steven King's short stories translate well","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  As with Shawshank Redemption and The Body, taken from the same book (Different Seasons), Apt Pupil once again proves that Steven King's short stories are ideal for the screen. Although not as true to the original storyline as the prior mentions, this movie maintains and possibly improves upon its disturbing edge. Powerful and not for lightweights, I will add this movie to my short list of those I'll see again and again.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing?...ok...but read the book...","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I read Apt Pupil in my freshman year in high school. I never read Stephen King. The only reason I read this one was because it was a novella along with The Shawshank Redemption in the book Different Seasons. I read Shawshank Redemption and loved it. I was so excited about it that I decided to read the next one in the book, a story named Apt Pupil. I read it. I nearly wet my pants it scared me so. Then this summer I heard about it being made into a movie. I didn't know what to think. I finally saw it and it didn't phase me at all. All the parts in the book that made me clutch my bedsheets at night, were exluded...and I don't blame him. The movie had been sugar-coated. Even the part where the old man attempts to cook the cat in the oven. He exceeded in the book. Now, I can see how it could phase someone who hadn't been exposed to the story but it just didn't do it for me. But overall, a good movie. The movie still manages to provoke deep thoughts about hate and evil. "}{"Title":"same movie?","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  How this movie gets a rating of 7.1 is beyond me.  Apt Pupil went nowhere. Pretty nice idea, but the story is short on development and pretty much wanders around randomly. "},{"Title":"you will be haunted by Apt Pupil","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  a very powerful and haunting movie, it stays with you.  scary, yet it does not rely on hackneyed scare techniques as do many modern films.  a thinking person's thriller, be prepared. "},{"Title":"unusual and terrific","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Brad Renfro is at his top. The new talent emerging after DiCaprio. Phenomenal! "},{"Title":"Big disappointment","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A big disappointment to those of us who looked forward to Singer's follow-up to USUAL SUPECTS or who were intrigued by the trailers for this movie.  This is an ugly would-be thriller in which the Holocaust is used as the basis for sophomoric musings on the nature of evil.  Why there are homosexual undertones to the story is anyone's guess.  The parts of the story that might have been most interesting are never portrayed on screen Renfro's tracking of McKellan, or McKellan's life in hiding as a drunken loner in middle class suburbia.   McKellan is good with what he has to work with, but it's a wasted performance. Two asides 1) Singer should have told Schwimmer to lose that moustache. 2) SPOILER Do we really need another movie in which a thought-to-be-dead character suddenly pops up and attacks someone? "},{"Title":"Oscar nomination for McKellen","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the top performances by an actor this year.Ian McKellen gives a superb performance as a fugitive Nazi War criminal, Kurt Dussander (aka Arthur Denker).  Symbolism or not- This is a thinking movie. Besides a couple of 'weak' parts this is a very good thought provoking movie. Go check out this movie & render your own opinion.  **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Now we'll see what you're made of.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Two characters, with good and evil in both, are locked in a relationship in which each cultivates the evil potential of the other.  One is an old hand at this game, and the other is new at it-- but the newbie made the opening move.  This is the unusual situation in the film.  Without it we would be left with unwholesome games which go on in every schoolyard every day.In other words, there but for the grace of God go you or I.  Can you stand to look at the Kurt & Todd lurking in yourself? Watch this film, and see what you're made of.  "},{"Title":"Should have been scarier","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I kept waiting for true suspense, but it never came. Though the plot was mostly unpredictable, the movie lacked a certain energy and didn't seem to live up to it's fright potential. The method in which the Nazi is recognized in the hospital is so contrived as to be unforgivable. "},{"Title":"A great story line that could not hold together with its cast.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie based on a great novella of Stephen King could have been great if they had not decided to stray from the original idea of the story. Changing the main character from a young teenager to an older one made him unbelievable.   As a high school senior Renfro's character would not have had the kind of obsessiveness about something like the Nazi's the way a guy my age (13) does in the book.  If they had kept the character like the one in the book,  my age, I think the way Renfro acted would have fitted much better and made the movie more intense and more real. "},{"Title":"Entertainment content of film deflects from holocaust theme.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Outstanding acting, direction, and filming.  BUT, the holocaust is a subject that, in my opinion, defies any treatment.  So, we have to settle finally for many different treatments.  And I must admit that treating it is preferable to ignoring it, or forgetting it.  The difficulty I had with this one was that the entertainment element in terms of suspense and excitement in the film became too dominant and extensive relative to the subject of the holocaust. "},{"Title":"Yet another comment...","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I'll spare your time and not review it.  I'll just say that it is one of the top ten films to come out this year so far, and definitely the best in the horror genre (for this year).  Well directed, acted, scripted.  Unless you are like Roger Ebert or Chris Garcia (who complained that the film was not Schindler's List 2 The New Evil), you will enjoy this... "}{"Title":"An engrossing film","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Kept my attention throughout ... the boy is a very sympathetic figure and it makes for an interesting psychological profile to see the way he is fascinated by the evil of the holocaust.  The acting is excellent. "},{"Title":"No intensity","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed in that I did not feel the intensity that I felt in reading the story. Maybe this comes from already knowing the story line. "},{"Title":"Ian McKellen shines in a bad attempt at shock.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The acting is amazing. The director does a wonderful job.  So what was the problem?  The movie never delivers on the shock and chill that was promised.  The adaption from the novella was written in such a watered down fashion that Brad's character appears to be no more twisted at the end of the movie than he was when he came up with the crazy idea to stalk and blackmail a Nazi war criminal to begin with.  Could have and should have been so much more disturbing.     "},{"Title":"You think kids aren't evil?","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  By far one of the best King adaptions to date, I felt the film was intriguing as well as a good study into our obsession with evil.  Evil is  seductive charm and this film shows us how we can fall into its jaws.  Brad Renfro has made a huge leap in his acting since the Client and I look forward to seeing future performances.  Elias Koteas has a small but well-played part in it as well, proving what a good character actor he is. All in all, the film rates right up there with adaptions such as Misery, Shawshank Redemption, and The Shining. "},{"Title":"A sometimes shocking, sometimes boring movie","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry but I couldn't help it. The movie was actually quite boring. Don't get me wrong, it had great parts but altogether rather boring and a disappointment. Singer couldn't keep my attention like he did with the Usual Suspects. I still suggest you go see it, though. The good parts of the movie merit watching it. The ending, however, is not one of the good parts. It drags, and is rather predictable...especially weird for Bryan Singer. I hope his next film is better. ***1/2of***** "},{"Title":"Inept Pupil","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Our own reviewer rips this film apart on our site, but what was unanimous among those of us who saw it was  TOO MANY COINCIDENCES!  If it had been shot on a studio backlot with a miniscule budget forty years ago, it would have been an excellent B-movie.  With a huge budget, expensive hype and a strong cast, however, it is so much tripe. -- We were surprised that the film didn't have someone from the Humane Society see the (painfully obvious) poster for the missing cat and immediately deduce that Denker had killed it and must (obviously) be a fugitive war criminal.As soft-core porn it has its merits, but even then, King's story has been thoroughly homosexualized and any references to Todd's twisted heterosexual rape fantasies have been deleted;  changing Todd's fantasy rape victim to a boy instead of a Jewish girl would have been an interesting take on the subject, but deleting his fantasy entirely and portraying him as simply impotent with the town slut was cowardly -- at least one of his steamy night sweats should, in the morning, have been shown (even subtly) to have been a wet dream, which is what King's Todd had with his rape fantasy. Instead, Todd is portrayed as impotent, asexual, and far more wholesome than King depicted him in the novella collection Different Seasons.  Viewers who just want to look at boyflesh in the context of a Stephen King story should see Stand by Me, a far better movie much more loosely adapted from King's The Body, which follows Apt Pupil in the King book.-- 30 -- "},{"Title":"Another tour de force for Ian McKellen...","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" ...and the boy is very good also.  The only drawback is that the plot tends to drag in a couple of places, as most do in a close tete a tete two-person drama.  Other characters are peripheral, but there is one who seems intrusive, and just dragged in by the heels.  If you see it, you will know who I mean.To summarize Acting Excellent;  Plot So-so. "},{"Title":"Overall, the movie is entertaining, thought provoking, and well worth seeing.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Review Apt Pupil (1998)`I want to know everything.' That's what Todd Bowmen, a sixteen year old high school student, tells Arthur Denker, a fugitive Nazi war criminal. What Todd wants to know everything about is the Holocaust. Not only does he want to know about it; he wants to know every graphic detail and to hear all about Denker's involvement in the massacre.Denker has no choice but to tell him, because he is being blackmailed. Todd has promised to turn Denker into the proper authorities, if he doesn't tell him about his crimes. So Denker tells him everything. The stories seem to be a little too much for Todd to handle and they begin to affect his life. Slowly, at first, but then sure enough, his grades plummet, he can't sleep, and he becomes anti-social.It is not long before his entire life revolves around Arthur and his dreadful stories. The plot explores deeply the mentor/friend relationship that Arthur and Todd have. There is always a veil of distrust between the two, because they each are holding some secret over the other's head.If there was only one reason to see this movie, it would be Ian McKellen's incredible performance as Arthur Denker. McKellen plays the part to perfection and he definitely deserves an Oscar nomination for his work here. The performance is reminiscent of his Oscar nominated work in 1995's Richard III, but he takes his role in Apt Pupil a step further. Brad Renfo is quite good as Todd, but he far overshadowed by Ian. The only other performance that is given any screen time is David Schwimmer, who plays Todd's guidance counselor. David does the best work of his entire career here; he is great.Bryan Singer, known for directing the incredible The Usual Suspects, does a very good job here. His style matches perfectly with the material. The film is based on Steven King's novella, but Brandon Boyce, a first timer, wrote the screenplay.Apt Pupil is very dark and disturbing and shows that evil exists everywhere. The most noticeable flaw is the running time. It ran about fifteen minutes too long, and would have been better if it was slightly faster paced.Overall, the movie is entertaining, thought provoking, and well worth seeing.Grade A-  "},{"Title":"Movie fails to show character decline","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Steven King's disturbing imagery aside, the film fails to prove what it sets out to prove.  Obviously, the title Apt Pupil implies that the child has something to learn from the older Nazi.  Unfortunately, our young hero is too corrupt to begin with.  His journey down the path to evil is less of a walk than a step.  That's not to say that it wasn't a fine movie.  There's a good deal to disturb almost any viewer, if that's what you're looking for. But if you're looking for insight into the human character, or into Nazi character, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Another good one from Different Seasons","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Between Stand By Me (based on The Body), The Shawshank Redemption (Rita Hayworth & the Shawshank Redemption) and now Apt Pupil, I can't help but wonder if King's novellas from Different Seasons are charmed to make wonderful films.The horror in a story like Apt Pupil is much more terrifying than a masked slasher or some supernatural menace.  This is a horror that can, has, and does exist.Not a movie for everyone, by any stretch of the imagination.  But for those who are able to mentally distance the name Stephen King from over-the-top, supernatural boogeyman-style terror, an all-around fine film.Guess we'll have to see if anyone adapts The Breathing Method to see if the stories from Different Seasons have just been lucky to be adapted so well, or if they're really just that good. "}{"Title":"This movie features excellent performances but a weak plot.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The strongest aspect of Apt Pupil is the sinister performance by the versatile Ian McKellen.  He is an actor of great range who mesmerizes the audience.  Brad Renfro holds his own as the young man who is obsessed with Nazism and insinuates himself into McKellen's life.  The relationship between the unrepentant Nazi and the middle-class high school boy is fascinating, as is the study of the nature of evil and how seductive it can be.  However, the plot has very large holes and the ending is melodramatic and heavy-handed. How much better it would have been had the movie-makers opted for a more subtle approach. In spite of its plot contrivances, Apt Pupil is worth seeing for McKellen's bravura performance.  He is an amazing actor. "},{"Title":"Well-acted and intense piece...","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a well-acted and intense motion picture from the director of one of the greatest films of all time, The Usual Suspects.  Brad Renfro is maturing in his performances since his debut in The Client.  His performance was limited to longing stares into the camera but they were intense stares that made you look deep into his eyes.  Ian McKellan gives a haunting performance that should be Oscar-worthy.  This picture is rather quiet in the first hour, which was effective for me but would bore others. The most powerful moment in the film was toward the end, in the hospital when the old man realized who McKellan was.  That was a strong piece of acting, even there was really no dialogue.  This is one of the year's most powerful pictures and I hope there will be a big audience with an open mind to enjoy it as much as I have. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, Powerful, a must see.","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Yes this movie is disturbing, it is ment to be.  A very powerful massage. If you are looking for a thought provoking movie, and can deal with bad supporting actors, see this movie. "},{"Title":"***1/2","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I am a little disappointed.  I did go to this movie hoping to get scared, but I was just disturbed.  There is very little violence in this movie but it still manages to leave you with knots in your stomach.  It was more the dialogue that was chilling.First of all, the acting.  The acting was almost perfect on all the characters parts.  It was believable, which is important in a movie like this.  The dialogue is also believable.  There are no lame one-liners, no dumb jokes that even I could pull out of my butt, and there were still funny moments which broke the ice after a tense scene.Secondly, when the violence starts, it's very graphic.  I can't give away major details, but I will say that the 10 minutes of blood in this movie were more frightening than the whole 2 hours of violence in the movie 'Urban Legend'.  And again, I can't spoil the ending for others, but the ending, even though it doesn't have any violence, is still very disturbing and intense. And it is also, in it's own sick little way, amusing.Lastly, David Schwimmer.   When he first appears in the movie, I groaned.  I had a bad feeling that a good movie was going to be ruined by his pathetic acting.  But I'm surprised to say, that even though his role is a minor charactor, he is still very important to the movie.  Without him, the ending doesn't work.  And I can't believe that I'm saying this, but David did a very impressive job.  He was believable.  If I were him, I'd stick to roles like the one he had in this movie.  His other movies, a.k.a 'The Pallbearer', were disturbing, but they were comedies.  Now that's scary!   "},{"Title":"Stephen King Does the Nazis","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was fairly good.  I liked it, while my buddy, who went with me, didn't care for it.  A few parts seemed to be just a bit too much, but with King you know things are going to be a little messed up.  This film exhibited an excellent use of irony.  In the end we see that the boy was truly an Apt Pupil of the deranged ex-Nazi. "},{"Title":"Long and boring.","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A total waste of time.  The movie runs an hour and fifty-one minutes and it takes an hour and forty minutes for it to get to the point.  Weak effort. "},{"Title":"Excellent imaginative movie...","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good horror movie - but not in the way you might think.A more apt word (excuse the pun) to describe this movie may be 'horrible' than 'horror'If you've ever wondered why people in charge of the Nazi death camps were able to act the way they did, this gives a glimpse of that lifestyle.Interestingly, this movie uses graphic descriptions of the horror rather than show photos or re-enactments of the situations.  This allows you to imagine the events in a much more realistic and imaginative way.You can imagine the events in this movie might possibly happen, unlike a lot of the stories of most movies today.This movie may disappoint people who are looking for standard horror movie fare.- Ron "},{"Title":"More of a King story than the novella...","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  At the heart of King's novella is a gifted student who becomes obsessed with the Holocaust. His obsession is not with the plight of the people put in the Nazi concentration camps, but the horrors the Nazis inflected upon them. In his quest for hearing about the things they won't tell us in school he accidentally uncovers the secret identity of a neighbor. This reclusive old man is actually a Nazi war criminal in hiding. Todd puts together a file on him, which includes photographs and finger prints,  and confronts him. In the end his own selfish reasons drive Todd to make a deal with the devil. He is seduced by the horrific stories Dussander tells.Singer and Boyce cleverly take these elements and weave them into a cinematic experience that is more of a King tale then the novella. King's tale concludes with Todd Bowden having to be shot out of a tree where he has been perched, shooting at cars on the highway. The filmmakers offer no such closure in their adaptation. They show us a young man whom this evil has infected, which now lays dormant beneath his tranquil face. When Todd is confronted by his guidance counselor, toward the end of the film, we see that evil rise like a hungry predator, ready to strike. Unlike earlier in the film, where it is Dussander who helps Todd put the monster back in the box, the filmmakers show us that Todd has wrestled the beast and become its master.  In the final sequences they impose the dying face of Dussander over that of Todd, alluding to the film's title. Like any number of King's tales, the evil has not died but passed like a diseased torch. The potential for evil still exists.Some members of the audience found the premise somewhat unbelievable. However, all one has to do is turn on the television and listen to the real life stories of children killing children. Recently 20/20 did a piece on child rage. Not only could it happen, but it does. The filmmakers are not gratuitous in their representation of violence. There is no violence here for the sake of violence, but just enough to propel the plot. In fact, King's novella was much more bloodier and gratuitous.Singer is an apt pupil of the cinema as he incorporates skilful camera work and imagery to heighten the intensity of the story. Singer employees some obvious devices, such as Todd's nightmares and daymares, but there are even more subtle hints. For example, Todd uses a storm tunnel to get from his home to Dussander's house. Whenever we see Todd bicycling thru the tunnel, the shot is a variation of the same angle. This way when Todd is heading toward Dussander's house, he is riding into the shadows, but when he is going home he is heading into the light. One of the most powerful scenes of the film occurs when Todd forces Dussander to put on a Nazi uniform he has purchased and makes him march. It becomes obvious the rules of the game have changed. Todd has let the monster too far out the box, and we know this as Dussander goes into this marching frenzy. The roles have been reversed. However, each has become the victim of the other, and it could not be more evident as when Dussander says to Todd, We are ****ing each other.The chemistry between Ian McKellen and Brad Renfro is frightening. McKellen gives one of the most powerful performances of his career. He can convey a tired, harmless old man, and in the next instant transform himself into this sinister, greasy, evil villain. He becomes much more than a war criminal in hiding, he becomes evil. His performance reminded me of the witch, who lived in the gingerbread house, from Hansel and Gretel. All the actors are wonderful but, again, the explosive interaction between McKellen and Renfro will easily blind the audience. I found one performance weak. David Schwimmer was fine in his first and second scene, but I didn't find him credible in his final scene with Renfro. It could be that Renfro stole the scene, but for me it felt that Schwimmer's response was too much a character response borrowed for his role of Ross on Friends.Filmmakers continually seek out the darker side of humanity, as is evident in such upcoming productions as American Psycho and the remake of Psycho. However, I can not understand why Hollywood must take a classic film and try to re-do it when there are dark countries yet to be explored. APT PUPIL is a film that shows audiences the familiar, sinister face of man. However,  this film offers audiences new horrors thru an exploration of different characters, different situations. Universal should not be remaking Psycho, they should be making Donald Westlake's The Ax.APT PUPIL is a brilliantly directed thriller. It is a complex cinematic masterpiece that seamless weaves together classical and modern themes, as it exposes the nature of evil. APT PUPIL is an exceptional film viewing experience, one that would have enthralled Welles and Hitchcock. McKellen and Renfro deliver powerful performances that will leave audiences awestruck. APT PUPIL is a film sure to be remembered come Oscar time, and hopefully a winner for one of the most talented and gifted directorial vision working in Hollywood today. "},{"Title":"Slow-moving and bland.  Would work as a TV movie of the week.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed.  A special pre-screen was held at Museum of Fine Arts.  I have never known a commercial film to be screened there (most screenings are held at area cineplexes in conjuntion with various radio stations).  So, I associated the MFA affiliation with a cutting-edge, art house film.  Having read the short story by Stephen King years ago, I was familiar with the plot. From the trailers, I expected a horrific, disturbing, and emotionally/visually graphic movie.  Not the absurd horror of a Scream-type movie, but rather a documentary-style horrific realism sort of movie.  And, it's not that I necessarily was looking forward to the movie--my idea of the movie--with gleeful anticipation.  It's just that I had mentally prepared myself for a very disturbing movie, in the same way that I prepared myself for Amistad and other similar movies that I see, not so much for weekend entertainment, but as an obligation on my part to improve this world by understanding and remember the atrocities in our histories.The reality of the movie was bland and uninteresting.  It moved sluggishly. I kept waiting for the real movie to start.  The movie's tag line (if you don't believe in the existence of evil you have a lot to learn) was a false promise.  I have seen documentaries on PBS that blew this movie away relative to getting the horrors of humanity and understanding the psyche of the Nazi mind and its consequences on Jewish peoples.  I cannot recall any part of this movie as reason enough for the R-rating.  If you took out the f-word, this movie, at best, would have made a decent movie-of-the-week. The acting was great on Donald Sutherland's part especially for what he had to work with. "},{"Title":"good ideas but falls apart at the end","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A generally strong Stephen King film adaptation, Apt Pupil delves into a fascinating subject matter the human attraction toward death, violence and the dark side. The film tones down much of the gore of the novella to focus on the psychology of a boy obsessed with hearing about the Holocaust from his neighbor, whom he determines is a Nazi war criminal. Apt Pupil is fill of interesting cinematography, a strong performance by Ian McKellan and work by Brad Renfro that grows more focused and intense as the movie progresses. After an engrossing first two acts, the movie loses its way for the finale; it's as if the filmmakers simply could not figure out a satisfying way to wrap up the story and lost control of the narrative. This is not a movie about the horrors of the Holocaust, but rather about  one sick boy's attraction to violence. With all the recent incidents of school killings, aspects of Apt Pupil be particularly evocative for many viewers. All in all, an eerie film that with a sharper script could have reached Silence of the Lambs caliber, a movie to which Apt Pupil owes an obvious debt. "}{"Title":"The book was good...","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  So how bad can the movie be?  It's either going to knock my socks off with visual representations of Stephen King's words, or it's going to entertain me for two hours while I mentally point out all of the differences (David Schwimmer as the counsellor?  Why?!?). "},{"Title":"Good; could have been better","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ian McKellen gives one of two brilliant performances this year (the other being his turn as James Whale in GODS AND MONSTERS), and Brad Refro is very good himself.  While this is about as good a movie as one could expect from Stephen King's novella, it suffers from the two main flaws of the story itself the progression of the boy's corruption is not persuasive, and it's simply too long for the story it has to tell. "},{"Title":"Wait for video","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This so called thought-provoking and moving film was neither.  Well, it moved something... namely my lunch.  The opening title sequence was a montage of endless pictures of Nazi criminals and concentration camps, full of needless dissolves of Todd's (Brad Renfro) eyes in the place of several of the pictures.  The montage was painfully long and reminded me of the excruciating sequence in Flipper.The film suddenly starts up and Todd's history teacher seems to have skimmed over the Nazi and Holocaust chapter, and then we suddenly find out that Todd wants to know more. He compiles a secret collection of photographs of the era.  but we never see the slightest idea WHY Todd has an interest in this particular piece of history.  All of a sudden we are introduced to another character, and lo-and-behold, he is a former Nazi hiding from those who would want to send him back to Jerusalem.Todd has the guy right where he wants him, then the tables are turned.. and then again... and then again.  Eventually well, you can probably guess what happens because it is predictable.   A sure casting snafu envelopes this movie... who on earth would cast Brad Renfro as an honor student and valedictorian... and David Schwimmer with a moustache??  The casting directory should be ashamed of themselves.In the wake of controversy surrounding the film (originally under-age actors were used for the shower scene, and this was later re-shot.. even though the case was thrown out) I was curious to see if Bryan Singer's direction lived up to that of The Usual Suspects.  It does not.  Throughout the movie, Todd's face is generally overexposed on film.  Add to the several montages, I wondered if this film was ever going to end.The film picks up pace near the last 20 minutes, when Joe Morton finally appears.  But the rest of the movie.. forget about it.  It's about as slow as it took to get this movie into theatres.  Maybe there was a reason it sat on the shelf after Ricky Shroeder shot the first scenes years ago.Save your money for video, when you want to go to sleep.   It is unmoving, slow, predictable, poorly shot, and has absolutely no redeeming production values at all.   There is absolutely nothing extraordinary about this film ~ looked more like a student film.  Maybe Singer should stick to teaching at USC. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully evil","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ian McKellen's performance is eerie and tittilating. All the dark undertones of the story are perfectly played out. The lack of any character redemption affirms the existence of true evil. The film is so powerful and is thankfully missing any sort of ... and they lived happily ever after, Hollywood ending. Brad Renfro shows immense deconstruction, as his character descends into oblivion.  "},{"Title":"An enthralling glimpse at how evil is passed from era to era.","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  10.1.98 Bryan Singer has taken King's novella and created a truly scary film, and I am not to be scared by ideas in film. Two of the most basic rules of popular film-making are broken. One, create a protagonist with whom the audience can identify. Two, over the course of the film the character's personalities must change in the direction expected by the audience. To the effect of unsettling the audience by keeping them waiting for a traditional plot to develop, when it dosn't we are struck by the realization that Singer is affecting  a very particular reaction in the audience-that there is a message in this film that could/should not be tarnished or lessened by a forced glossy Hollywood resolution.Apt Pupil leaves one waiting for Joey (Renfro) to snap out of it, to see the horror of the nazis for what it is=is/was=was. Had Singer given us the resolution we expect it would have ruined the film, only on reflection can this be appreciated. By the end of the credits it, hopefully, has sunk in that this film, on one level, is really about the necessity of having the memory of the holocaust carried on lest we forget the horror and commit the crimes over again.On another, related, level the film is about the potential for evil that we all carry within ourselves. This point, however, left me unsatisfied. It is not sufficient to point out that we all have the seeds of evil within ourselves, personally I like to get the director's opinion on what we can do to prevent the manifestation of this potential. Apt Pupil did not do this for me, but there is so much intellectual energy put into this film that on the first viewing there was more to keep track of than is possible to fully comprehend on first try, so mayby it'll provide for you what I missed.Was the film like The Usual Suspects? No and yes, of course it is a different story on a different subject. But in the ambiguity of the characters there are similarities, go see for yourself. It is clear that there is a defining vision behind each of the films, Bryan Singer is brilliant and is only going to get better. "},{"Title":"powerful and disturbing","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a very moving and thought provoking film.  It asks and answers the question 'How did the Nazis become who they were', and it answers it well.  Through vivid, disturbing imagery and a strong storyline, the audience is shown the horrors of the Nazi regime and how power corrupts.  "},{"Title":"Stephen King's film adaptations Apt Pupil","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt Pupil (1998) was a very disappointing adaptation of one his novellas from the Different Seasons collection. The film starts off real well but as the story moves along, it starts to stray from the original theme and what made the story click falls apart and it loses it's dark overtones. The movie version has no real pay off. Ian McKellen was great as Kurt Dussander, he really breathed life into this nasty character who tries to repress his true personality. The real weakness not only lies in the script but the portrayal of Todd Bowden. Brad Renfro just wasn't good enough to play such a deeply disturbed individual who was in many ways similar to Dussander.I hope that this movie would be remade in the future. I would love to see a proper adaptation of the story that would follow the original story more closely. This version is not bad, but fans of the story will be sorely disappointed. "},{"Title":"Berlin! Berlin!","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" You know what? I actually enjoyed this much more than The Usual Suspects, probably because I predicted the twist ending to that one just by knowing there was a twist.- But just in my opinion, Apt Pupil showcases Bryan Singer's skills as a suspense director a lot more. Probably because it ranges from outright thriller/drama to a little bit of horrorfest. After all it is based on a King novella.- The man whom Singer would eventually use as Magneto 2 years after 1998? He was brilliant! I think I've never seen Sir Ian McKellen play anyone other than a Briton. Maybe Magneto was a German/Jew but I'm sure Gandalf was definitely English... but McKellen portrays Herr Dussander that would make Stanislavsky himself speechless.- Another thing interesting to note is the recurring theme of overpowering and blackmail. First the boy does it, and later on Dussander manages to protect himself, and the final scene, which I don't intend to discuss here ends this re occurring theme in a confrontation between 2 characters of the film.- Take note of the symbolism, it can be as subtle or as blatant as you interpret it, but smashing a dove with a basketball or intensely enjoying a movie about a cat bullying a shrunken man? You be the judge of how to look at those things, but I assure you it's easier to understand that pretentious David Lynch or Kubrick stuff.I've always known Singer to be a fine craftsman in film art, be it his suspense thrillers, or comicbook movie adaptations, and he even made the right choices in his 2006 revival movie. Speaking of which, I really liked some of the montages or the integration of that German song in the film, which is also played in the end during the film's final shot. I'm also glad Singer is returning to his roots in suspense as I see here in IMDb some of his upcoming movies in his directorial credits list.I give APT PUPIL a 4/5 "},{"Title":"Ultimately not worthy of its subject matter.","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There was a lot of potential here a bright young man discovers a Nazi in hiding and through blackmail starts an unlikely relationship with him. A film with that subject matter could have been truly intriguing and thought provoking, but instead, Apt Pupil ultimately treads the path of many a thriller before it. When the film could be dealing more with issues of guilt or our fascination with and capacity to commit violence, it uses the subject as a thriller, with all the trappings of your standard thriller complete with knives, murder, lies, and a twisting, turning plot.On the subject of the characters I never quite believed Brad Renfro's character, Todd Bowen. There was never any real motivation given or much of a hint of one other than morbid curiosity, and I'm sorry, I just don't buy that morbid curiosity could compel someone to rent a Nazi uniform and make an old man march around in it. I'm not sure if the problem ultimately lies with Renfro, Singer, the source material (which I have not read), or a combination of any number of things.Ian McKellan is quite good, as usual, but Dussander as a character went far too over the top. I like that the film doesn't make him a completely repentant person, but I don't like that they made him a complete monster who likes to throw cats in his oven for fun either. There was an opportunity to make a truly great villain here in the tradition of Hannibal Lector who both enthralls and repels us, but all Dussander does is repel.There is one scene in the film that is truly compelling, despite how implausible it is, involving a hospital roommate. The scene is so well acted by Michael Byrne, and it is truly chilling and heartbreaking. That one scene was more frightening than any of the more conventional thriller scenes throughout the rest of the movie.Had the rest of the movie been played at the same emotional intensity as that one scene, then we might have had something. But instead we're left with a film that uses the holocaust as a clothes line for cheap thriller tactics. The result is ultimately a film that crosses the line into just plain bad taste. "},{"Title":"A decent but neglectful attempt","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In the line of theatrical and Made for TV attempts drawn from Stephen King's literary works, this is really quite good. It is a darkly twisted work which hints to the Machiavellian theories and demonstrates a remarkable execution.Unfortunately, it is almost anti-climactic in its delivery, in spite of the stellar performances which support this work. I was a trifle disappointed with this attempt, but that is only because I am a King fan. If you're not concerned with the comparison to the short story upon which this is based, the movie alone is really quite enjoyable. It is a well developed psychological thriller with some highly entertaining moments.If you are concerned with the comparison to King's literary writings however, you will be greatly disappointed, as Todd's descent into madness is completely skipped in the theatrical version. Let me explicate further. Todd is first intrigued by the death and violence of the Nazi concentration camps and the horrendous tortures and medical experiments conducted there. He becomes seduced by the blood, the pain, and the adrenaline rush he receives from viewing these things in his mind's eye and in the books he ferrets from the library.He then discovers his neighbor is a Nazi and blackmails him into detailing the things done at these camps; first hand accounting generates a better rush for Todd, and so he becomes enamored totally; surrendering utterly to these stimuli until finally, madness is achieved.All this is omitted and what elements are present, are never explained. It is much like the Made 4 TV version of It in that it never explains what They all float down here means to the plot, yet they use it over and over. They use Todd's madness over and over in Apt Pupil, yet they never demonstrate that madness to its fullest potential (or even its most shallow potential) on film.If you are a King fan, it'll hurt your feelings and therefore, rates a 3.5/10.If you aren't a King fan and do not have a story to which you will compare this work, it rates a 7.8/10.If you are a fan of psychological thrillers, it rates a 6.5/10 for giving you some suspense, but never exploring the psychology behind Todd's actions.That's a 6/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Great concept but weak story.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The concept of the movie is great and original, however the story is weak and gets later on in the movie unbelievable when all logic gets abandoned.The movie start of quite well and promises to get very interesting and has some nice thriller elements, however halve way through the story takes a turn and all the feeling of tension between the two main characters (young boy Renfro and old Nazi McKellen) is suddenly gone because the story gets unbelievable and because of that also uninteresting to watch.Still the chemistry between the two characters is good and for that alone the movie is worth watching. Ian McKellen is surprising good as rotten old Nazi war criminal that fled to America after WW II and Renfro also once again proofs that he is a young talented actor.Decent movie that could have been great but still has some nice thriller elements in it and some well done scene's which makes the movie watchable but not recommendable.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Interesting Concept hurt by Underdeveloped Plot","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  **MILD SPOILERS**Perhaps I need to read the book on this one.  From what I've read from other comments, the book delivers exactly what I found to be lacking from the movie, character and plot development.With the start of the movie, you immediately sense you've been thrust into the middle of the story.  The motivation for Todd's interest in Nazi Germany is weak.  And from Todd's explanation of how he discovered the true identity of Kurt Dussander, it seems as though such a discovery came naturally and with little effort.  Are we seriously supposed to believe that a Nazi war criminal who escaped authorities for 30 some odd years would be discovered so easily by a 16 year old kid?  On top of this, we never really see much of a plot here.  Most of what we do see is uninteresting and lacking motivation.  While I did find myself more disturbed with Todd's character as time wore on, I hardly found his actions frightening or chilling.Another large problem here is that I never really began to care too much about the two main characters.  On one hand we have the high school honor student who is portrayed as somewhat disturbed from the beginning and who spends the entire movie dicking everyone around.  Yet somehow I'm supposed to feel concerned for him when Kurt Dussander threatens to drag the kid down with him?  And I'm supposed to feel happy for the kid when he escapes any punishment in the end?  On the other hand we have a Nazi war criminal, who despite coming off as a somewhat helpless old man who has left his violent past behind, never really shows any remorse or emotion for the heinous things he did in his younger years.The movie does pick up a bit in the last 30 minutes, but it hardly begins to make of for the 80 yawnable minutes that preceeded it.  And despite this build-up towards the end of the movie, we never really reach much of a climax, and the movie ends almost as abrubtly as it began.  While this movie showed some promise at times, most of the times it simply fizzled out.In the end I give the movie a 5/10...mostly for some decent acting and for some mildly interesting moments.       "},{"Title":"This film really makes you think","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very good film.I can't understand Leonard Maltin's poor review. Yes, it was disturbing, that was the point! Why do people do the things they do? That was the question this gripping tale asked. What I thought was just another teenage movie, turned out to be quite a gripping film. The acting was very good, and there was no sugar-coated happy ending.  "},{"Title":"Well-done psychological horror film ...","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  1st watched 8/15/1999 - 8 out of 10 (Dir-Bryan Singer) Well-done psychological horror film based on a Stephen King novella about a former Nazi war criminal's relationship with a young teenager fascinated with the subject.Scary mainly because of it's thought provoking premise rather than blood and gore.  "},{"Title":"A young man questions an elderly neighbor.","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Brandon Boyce brings a Stephen King novella to the screen. Bryan Singer directs this moody and dark look at furthering education. A brilliant young student (Brad Renfro) hungers for more knowledge of the Holocaust. He cleverly discovers an elderly neighbor (Ian McKellen) is in fact a runaway Nazi. Blackmail and fear cause the old man to tell stories of the war crimes never printed in a school book. The war criminal succumbs to weakness and the mild mannered school boy relishes his new found power and assertiveness. This is a thriller more than a chiller. Your brain stays engaged. Don't miss this one. David Schwimmer is miss cast as a guidance counciler. "},{"Title":"Character-driven thriller.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Apt Pupil is best when Ian Mckellan and Brad Renfro are just talking. Their conversations pull you into their world. McKellan's world of terror and Renfro's world of fascination. The film deals with some tough issues and handles them as well as could really be handled. I really enjoyed the terror of the showering scene and the look in McKellan's eyes when he feels the old ways of power coming back to him. The film's director, Bryan Singer, does a solid job with the material. It's not a film of directing style but more a film of acting. The performances are top-notch. My only real complaint is that the film seems to slow down toward the end and lose its pace. This is a great film to watch for the performances of McKellan and Renfro. "},{"Title":"Slow, slow, and even more slow..","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The movie does not run that long, but when you leave the theatre, you are left wondering, what is today's date. The premise behind the film is weak. The plot is weak. The acting is so so. This is the first movie that I have seen in a long time that caused me to think, Why am I still here? To get the point across in this film, they needed a LOT more symbolisim. The mere donning of the NAZI uniform just doesn't cut it for the point they were trying to make. The daydreaming of NAZI camps and showers doesn't do it. The way in which the vagrant was killed DESTROYED any point they were trying to make. Don't waste your money at the theater, don't waste your money on the video tape, if you think you want to see it, wait for cable.. "},{"Title":"A very unnerving thiller!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  If you're expecting The Usual Suspects, don't. This film is a different type of dark thriller than Mr. Singers previous film. Though different, it's still very good. It shows the true evil in the world and slowly gets to you. By the end you will become very unnerved by the horrors that may be around you in the world. "},{"Title":"VERY disappointing!!!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the few King stories that stuck in my mind--I was so riveted, I read it in one sitting (which for me is amazing!!).  So, when I heard that they were making a film based on it, I was all kinds of excited!!!! Sitting in the theater before the show started, I noticed that people had brought their young children--my first thought was, This is a FRIGHTENING story--I can't believe they would bring their kids!!!  Then the movie started, and I waited for the frightening part--it never came, and my concern for the kids being traumatized faded quickly.  The original story is SO full of images of the Holocaust--images that are essential to the plot--that they leap off the page and grab you by the throat.  The movie has one, maybe two quick flashes of Holocaust victims--they might as well have left them out.  I really cannot believe that this is the same director of The Usual Suspects and X-Men 1 & 2!!!Bottom line Don't let this bad film deter you from reading the story--it's in King's Different Seasons**.(**also in Different Seasons is 'Hope Springs Eternal', which is the movie The Shawshank Redemption and 'Fall from Innocence', which is the movie Stand by Me) "},{"Title":"I thought it was great!!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I really think that this movie was one of Brad's greatest movies, the movie itself was great. It really shows how a person can make the transformation of good to evil in such a short amount of time. The acting was great, I think it was a very good choice that all the actors made to do this movie!! "}{"Title":"Good cast -- silly story","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was intrigued by the idea of the story based on what I knew about it before seeing the film. But despite an excellent cast, the film is just silly.The whole story turns on unbelievable plot devices that involve the true identity of McKellen's character. These devices are so unconvincing that the film would be laughable if it weren't for the serious topic and the strong cast. But, given that this is yet another film of King's contrived writings, the difficulties with the plot are no surprise.McKellen gives his trademark sly performance. Renfro is very good in being able to hold his own in scenes with the likes of McKellen, and thus the young actor proves that he is not just another pretty face. "},{"Title":"Man is not an Island","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was great!  Great acting, great direction, it captured my attention every second. It is one of those rare movies you must see, totally under rated  totally.... Despite the subject matter, it was well crafted... Place it on your must list to see! "},{"Title":"Singer captures the King story brilliantly","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  It is always nerve wracking to see a favorite story turned into a movie. This movie is haunting -- just like the story in spirit.  If the details of the story were brought to the screen, it would play something like Nightmare on Elm Street.  The changes made to the story's details were required to capture the same haunting horrifying quality -- that these people are our neighbors -- or maybe you and me ... .  Brad Renfro was great.  Ian McKellen was wonderful beyond words.  Another triumph for Singer.  "},{"Title":"The last time I was robbed the guy had gun.","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Quotes are always being taken out of context; which is the only possible explanation for ...a heart stopping, blood-chilling thriller... appearing on the box for the video of this movie.  What the critic most likely said was This is as far from a HEART STOPPING, BLOOD-CHILLING THRILLER as any movie I've ever seen.  This movie is awful...'Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory' was more frightening. "},{"Title":"Corny teen 'thriller' about high schoolboy befriending former SS death camp officer","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apart from the fact that he chews the scenery au-go-go, Ian McKellen is very miscast as the Nazi sadist who befriends a high school nerd(Renfro). The story itself is clumsily set up in a series of montages, and any inherent interest (for me) in the relationship between the ideals of the old man and the boy is ignored in favour of an obvious thriller, inhabited by cardboard characters and more montages to denote passages of time (and reduce tension) than I've ever seen. Bryan Singer has done much better than this in The Usual Suspects; here he seems to have been seriously compromised. I haven't read Stephen King's original story, but maybe I shall now, because Mr King knows how to tell a story, and whoever agreed to the final cut of this, doesn't. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but could have been even better.","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt Pupil is compelling, reasonably intelligent entertainment ruminating on the concept of evil in so-called human beings. What makes the most vile among us do the things that they do? Can the evil in people actually lie dormant, just waiting for years to be either awakened or re-awakened?It's not a perfect film, by any means, but it's still an interesting story, adapted by Brandon Boyce and director Bryan Singer from the Stephen King novella. What keeps it on track is an extremely commanding central performance by Sir Ian McKellen, playing a Nazi war criminal named Kurt Dussander, or as he would now rather be known, Arthur Denker. He lives incognito in a California community, and is recognized by Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro), a high school student studying the Holocaust.What does Todd do with his knowledge? Instead of running to the authorities to report his findings, he's actually intrigued by what he's discovered. In return for Todds' silence, the surly Dussander is made to tell all of his horrifying war stories. Todd even goes so far as to obtain a Nazi costume when he then orders Dussander to wear.The balance of the story deals with this unpleasant and evolving relationship between the elder and the pupil. Each man takes turns wielding power over the other, with Dussander claiming to have made copious notes of their meetings.Renfro does a solid job as this disturbing youngster, going through the motions of living an ordinary teen life but always returning to this dark obsession of his. The supporting actors are all excellent Bruce Davison and Ann Dowd as the unknowing parents, Elias Koteas as a well meaning hobo, Joe Morton as an FBI agent, Jan Triska as a Jewish professor, James Karen as Todds' grandfather, and Michael Byrne as a Holocaust survivor. (Just check out Byrnes' horrified reaction when he realizes who his hospital roommate is.) David Schwimmer, sporting a goofy moustache, is passable as a dorky guidance counselor.Singers' filmmaking favours a straightforward, mostly no frills approach, which helps. The music score by John Ottman can be pretty unsubtle at times, though. This viewers' main gripe would be the whole segment with Koteas, which he feels adds unnecessary padding to a story that really goes on longer than it should.The ending is the major letdown, but considering how the novella concluded, it's all too easy to understand, in these sensitive times, why it was altered.A solid effort overall.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Pupil On Evil","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt Pupil is a thriller that is based on one of the fours novella written by Stephen King entitled Different Seasons.It stars Ian McKellen and Brad Renfro.This is the third film to derive from King's book of four novellas with the others being Stand By Me and The Shawshank Redemption. Bryan Singer directed this film.A high school student named Todd Bowden discovers fugitive Nazi war criminal that is living in his neighborhood.He happens to be Kurt Dussander,a former death-camp commandant who is hiding under the under the pseudonym Arthur Denker.Being obsessed with Nazism and acts of the Holocaust as he is a passionate about the subject of History,he develops a relationship with him.Together,Bowden was able to persuades Dussander to share his stories during the war.But ultimately,their relationship heads to a dangerous path as malevolence develops between them.The is definitely horrific in the sense that we get to see Bowden develop evil traits as his relationship with Denker progresses especially after he hears the stories of Jews being killed on the death camp.Also,we get to see them manipulate each other in committing evil deeds like criminal activities such as murder.Added to that,we see how both of them deteriorated morally that it becomes disturbing to the viewer.I give credit to the performances of McKellen and Renfro as they were effective in the portrayal of their characters considering that they dominated majority of the scenes.The only negative thing that I would say that about it is that it wasn't chilling enough.Also,it fails to provide much insight particularly on Bowden's deterioration as he develops evil qualities.Finally,the essence of the novella wasn't fully transformed into the big screen especially if one was able to read it.But nevertheless,it is still worth the view for it is far from being a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Generations Of Evil","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Totally Believable in its Unbelievability this is a Well Made, Acted, and Fittingly Disturbing Creep-Film from Writer Stephen King and the Sophomore Movie from Director Bryan Singer. There is Definitely Talent at Work here and No Play.There is not an Ounce of Joy or Humor in this Relentlessly Downbeat Study of Young Evil meeting up with Old Evil and Discovering a Kindred Dark-Half. It is not an Easy Movie to Like and it is not an Easy Movie to Dismiss, because it Never Resorts to Horror Story Clichés or Psycho-Drama Sameness. These are Demonic Personifications. There is one, a Death Camp Nazi that got Away and is Hiding as an American Citizen (I vote, I pay taxes), and Another, a High-School Whiz Kid about to Graduate the Top of His Class at age 16, who is an Evolving Psychopath, and Hiding in His Clean Cut Suburban Home as a Clean Cut Athlete (He was such a nice Boy, no one had any idea, you can just hear the sound bytes in the future).There are other Things going on, like Impotence, Homosexuality, Murder, and Pedophilia just in case You were not having a Good Time. But that's the Point, this isn't a Good Time. It's the Holocaust of the Past and Spree or Serial Killer of the Future Passing Each Other like Satanic Ships in the Night. Out with the Old and In with the New. "},{"Title":"Stop Comparing Movies to BOOKS!!","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Everything has already been said about this movie, but it drives me nuts when a great psychological thriller like Apt Pupil gets poor reviews because its not like the book. NEWS FLASH Movies are NOT BOOKS. They are completely different mediums that require different types of storytelling. Who cares if the movie didn't take place over half a decade? Who cares if they changed plot points?? Review the movie for the movie it is, and not against the literary version. Its like comparing apples and oranges, honestly, and its not fair to the filmmakers. Stephen King movies are ALWAYS better when they are reinterpreted for film, anyway. The Shining being an excellent example. "},{"Title":"all the Reich moves","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In an adaptation of one of Stephen King's most unusual stories, high school student Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro) gets acquainted with Nazi fugitive Kurt Dussander (Ian McKellen) and blackmails him. But as the acquaintanceship continues, Todd's curiosity begins to get the better of him, and his interest in his subject starts going too far, to the point where he can start manipulating everyone around him.McKellen does as good a job in Apt Pupil as he's done in pretty much every movie, although his role here is much grimmer than his other ones. It just goes to show what a great actor he is. His performance will probably leave you chilled. And that boy sure had no morality. Also starring Joshua Jackson, Ann Dowd, Bruce Davison, James Karen, David Schwimmer and Joe Morton. "}{"Title":"Apt Pupil","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Apt Pupil, is based on the novella of the same name by Stephen King. The film is about a high school student named Todd Bowden, who does some research on a man named Kurt Dussander, and finds out he was a nazi and that he escaped and is wanted from the FBI. Todd, approaches Kurt, and asks him to tell him his old war stories and wants to hear what it was like. Todd, also tells Kurt, that if he doesn't that all the evidence he has gathered on him he will show to the police. The two of them soon start to become friends and Todd, goes to Kurt's house everyday after school. Kurt, then blackmails Todd, so he will not be able to go to the police on him and soon Todd, starts to have nightmarish visions of the stories that Kurt, tells him. Things in the friendship go more and more weird as the months pass by. Winner of The Saturn Award for Best Horror Film and Best Supporting Actor (Ian McKellen, who plays Kurt Dussander) at The Academy Of Science Fiction, Fantasy And Horror Films; The BFCA Award for Best Actor at The Broadcast Film Critics Association Awards, The FFCC Award for Best Actor at The Florida Film Critics Circle Awards and the Best Actor Award (for Brad Renfro, who plays Todd Bowden) at The Tokyo International Film Festival. Apt Pupil, has good direction, a good script, good performances by the two male leads, good original music, good cinematography, and good film editing. Apt Pupil, is a well made and well acted and crafted film that is entertaining as well. There are some parts of the film I didn't totally understand and would have liked to have seen more and learned more about some things. I would have also liked there to have been a little bit more character development. But I enjoyed the film nonetheless and is a well made and entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Beyond Words","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a classic. Brian Singer did a wonderful job making this movie feel cold & interesting. Tom Sigel & Brian are good friends & long time co-workers have a great director/Cinematographer work system. John Ottman did a great job editing & scoring this film as he did later in X-men 2 (another Brian & Tom feature).Ian McKellen, this man took on the role of an ex-Nazi hiding in suburban America, & did a perfect job. Ian's acting skills work in any genre, so it was no surprise that he would do a fantastic job on this film. As for Brad Renfro, i loved his work in Tart & he totally took this role to another level. His scenes with Ian are so well it is chilling. Basiclly this movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"Nothing that big","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I usually don't care if a movie changes stuff from the book. I mean who wants to have the same exact story twice. But the one thing in this movie that they changed that I hated is that in the book Todd Bowman was much scarier and evil. The movie picked up towards the end. But again they changed the awesome ending that was in the book. I thought that the first half was a bit boring. This movie is about a young boy named Todd bowman who becomes interested in the holocaust. He blackmails a former Nazi man named Arthur Denker. Arthur Denker begins to tell story's that makes the kid has extreme nightmares and a drop in school grades. Then Mr. Denker blackmails Todd.The movie got a lot better towards the end it picked up but I thought that the very end was bad because I read the book and the book's ending was so much better. I give this movie 5 out of 10 because Todd was not as scary as in the book and the beginning was very boring. Flashbacks may have helped a lot better. If I hadn't read the book I probably would have like the movie better. "},{"Title":"awful, pure and simple","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Sir Ian McKellan and Brad Renfro star in this film about what happened during the second world war through the eyes of a Nazi war criminal. Brad Renfro plays Todd Bowden a student who wants to probe into the life of a nazi war criminal who lives next door to him. Todd uses everything he can to get info from Arthur Dussander played by McKellan. Todd uses blackmail in order to get what he wants but it soon backfires as McKellan reverses the game as he plays with Todd's mind. This movie missed with me because all it did was skate around what happened and instead of taking something away from it, I saw nothing but psychological games being played that didn't quite cut it for me.If I wanted to see better psychological games I could have rented The Silence Of The Lambs. Apt Pupil wasted the talents of McKellan and Renfro with a lame story. It had a lot of room for improvement. This is not a movie I would jump out of my seat and go to the video store to rent the movie again.  "},{"Title":"is it just me or is it an obscure movie?","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro )is a polite, mild-mannered High school student who is obsessed with the holocaust, and is the honor role student at his school. He recognizes an old man named Kurt Dussander on the bus one day as a hunted Natzi, who killed Jews in miserable, morbid ways. He tries to cover up his acts by going by a different name for several decades. Todd isn't like most adolescents; he's not the least bit interested in sex, as shown in a scence in a car with a girl at a party. Todd cultivates a curious friendship with the evil old man to tell him what they didn't tell in books. Dussander plays a dangerous psychological game on Todd, telling him stories that make his grades slip, by disturbing him half the night. David Schwimmer luckily gives us a hilarious role as a geeky, sneaker wearing guidance councelor. Dussander's scam puts Todd in danger of turning into him. The parents just think he's a friend and Todd's gathering history. Everyone, particularly the criticts were highly disturbed by the film. I didn't see what was so disturbing and unpleasant when the parents were totally upbeat and unaware, and Todd gets good grades again and graduates early. Todd just kills a bird, and Dussander makes him uncover a muder of a man he brings in his home; quite a chilling moment. Dussander slaughters him an inch away from death, and Todd came over and Kurt locks Todd in the basement with the man attacking him until he's dead, which I couldn't tell whether it was self defense or thoughts of aggresion hate and killing which went through his mind being manipulated by Dussander. Todd seemed like a good kid who gets tricked into killing the man in self defense, and it sems the disturbing parts all come from Dussander's evil psychopath acts. "},{"Title":"Really..really hard to like.","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film was a disturbing experience. For the life of me I can not see how this film can be enjoyed. The material is so dark and it's hard to connect with the characters.Brad Renfro as the young man who's about to graduate has a fascination with the Nazi way of life. This alone drove me nuts. This kid is intelligent and has a future. Still he's also a sick, disturbed kid who needs some type of councelling. He takes a morbid liking to a former Nazi General(played with slick ease by Ian McKellan) who is trying to stay hidden in his home harboring a strong hate.This hate McKellan has is thrust to the surface as Renfro blackmails him into telling him stories of the deaths by his command. McKellan is forced to wear a suit from the days of his Nazi youth that Renfro found perhaps on eBay(Renfro has pictures and fingerprints of the Nazi).You see a twinkle in his eye as he stays in that suit reliving those dark days with a strong glee.This film was well made and well directed. It got under my skin and really bothered me. I still really hate it...I just do. The film's material just haunts me and there's no way I could like it. */***** "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent movie that doesn't feel the need to follow the traditional rules of movie making. Anyone who feels that this movie should not have been made or was done so out of irresponsability is too caught up in the idea of the subject matter being too politically incorrect to appreciate. Great acting by the whole cast, and particularly Sir Ian McKellen(as always) and a simple but out of the ordinary plot. Cheers to Mr. Singer for his vision. "},{"Title":"A disappointing movie anyway you look at it.","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  It's been many, many years since I read the Steven King novella which inspired this movie, but I remember it being much more interesting and disturbing that this. This is a very disappointing movie anyway you look at it. If you like the original story you will be let down by the way it is toned down and simplified, and especially with its anticlimactic ending, which really doesn't work for me.  If you are a fan of Bryan Singer's previous movie, the modern classic 'The Usual Suspects', you can't but help compare the two movies and you will be disappointed (even Singer's uneven debut 'Public Access' was better than this in my eyes). Finally, if you are a fan of actors of the calibre of Ian McKellen ('Gods And Monsters'), the very promising Brad Renfro ('Bully'), Bruce Davison ('The Lathe Of Heaven'), and especially Elias Koteas ('The Prophecy'), who is totally wasted in a minor role, you will wish that the script (by newcomer Brandon Boyce) had have been meatier and braver and a little less compromised.  Maybe Singer's old partner Christopher McQuarrie could have made this more substantial and satisfying, I don't know.  As it is it's one of those movies that you will find difficult to remember a few months after you watch it, and that's saying a lot when you look at the potentially rich subject matter. Unfortunately Singer has yet to fulfill his early promise, treading water with big budget superhero adaptations. I hope he eventually surprises us all, and makes something really worth watching.  Anybody who can make a movie as brilliant and original as 'The Usual Suspects' cannot be written off so quickly. "},{"Title":"A truly great and chilling film...","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was all that I expected DONNIE DARKO to be. I just catched this on TV last night and was blown away by it. It's not a movie about WO II, but it's about the dark side of man. How can I well brought up, smart high school kid turn into a monster, and how can a monstrous Nazi mass murderer become sympathetic.Well executed, chillingly acted, brilliant editing... This movie is by far one of the best I have seen. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing this movie and it was an utter disappointment.  This movie lacked direction for one. There is no point at all to it and you begin wondering why you are watching it to begin with. Just save your money and time.  I give it a 2 of 10.  And I am being generous for giving it that.  "}{"Title":"Very well made psychological thriller","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The following review *MIGHT CONTAIN SPOILERS* Intense, well-paced and exceptionally acted adaption of a Stephen King novella. Brad Renfro plays Todd Bowden, who uncovers a mass murderer in the midst of suburbia, USA. The story explores their relationship, which even forms into a bizarre sort of friendship. The dialogue and settings are in perfect sync, with a pervasive eerie atmosphere and overtones of the movie. It is subliminally terrifying, as the perverse evil described throughout wasn't caused by some mythological creature, but by mere humans. I felt the film a metaphor for the sick seduction of terror. Opinions will run hot and cold for this film, yet you owe it to yourself to see and judge this for yourself.There are, indeed, a few scenes that could not suspend my belief, especially the hospital/recognition scene. Also, I would question the casting of David Schwimmer as French, as his experience on the big screen is pretty limited. It showed. Also, the box art was good, yet including a quote like ...Heart pounding ride..., wasn't necessary nor 100% accurate. If one was waiting for winged avengers to fly through windows spewing shards of glass in all direction, they'd still be at the theater waiting. This film's terror is deeply rooted in psychological terms and real historic events. Yet, these observations are relatively minor, in comparison to the film as a whole. Very recommended.  "},{"Title":"Very good despite flaws","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed the film, it features a flawed screenplay but Singer's direction and the actors' performances help make this film much better.The film features 2 people who are evil, one is fascinated, the other wants to hide it. What happens when you persist in questioning evil which has been locked away for a longtime? What happens when you open the door and let it out? As I said, the screenplay has flaws The beginning has no introduction, the film decides to jump straight in resulting in no real character development for Brad Renfro. There are others, but I don't want to spoil the picture for you.I found the ending to be satisfying, it really says a lot about the character played by Renfro.The performances are superb, I really liked everyone on the picture. Even David Schwimmer breaks away from his' Friends' role to give a satisfying play.The direction and editing is pretty good, the framing of some shots required more thought but on the whole very good!I can see why some will hate it, but I recommend watching this alone late at night.  "},{"Title":"Could Have Been So Much More","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw a trailer for this movie, I was so anxious to see it.  But, what I saw was just an immense disappointment.  It started all right, and reaches its peak when Dussander puts on the SS uniform, but starts to dwindle downward when Dussander tried to throw the cat in the oven, which I would have imagined Todd doing.  Rather than having somewhat silly moments such as that, it just got boring as they threw in a silly subplot involving David Schwimmer as a counselor.  But, when I read the story, I gained a better appreciation for this movie.  DO NO READ THE NOVELLA! It is horrible. Although it's very similar to the movie, the movie is actually successful in being creepy.  For instance, in the novella, Mr. King managed to make the scene where Dussander dresses up in the Nazi uniform tedious.  Getting back to the movie, couldn't they have told more than two stories?  I would have liked to hear more, but they'd rather delve into more detail with their stupid subplot about Todd bringing up his grades.  Well, the ending in the movie was much better. "},{"Title":"Nature vs Nurture","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  One question that comes to mind as you watch this movie is whether Todd Bowden's evil and cunningness is inbred or nurtured. You'd have to make the decision yourself as you see him progress from mere teenage boy behaviour to something you might imagine seeing in a young Nazi during the war. While not a perfect adaptation, it is still one of the best movies made that makes you think while you watch. "},{"Title":"The worst film of a book EVER!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Man, the book was great, but what the *** did the screenplay writer think when he was writing the screenplay. The film and the book have a totally different end, and if you compare the book to the film you will see a lot of differences. The kind of differences that are essential for the story. SPOILER ALERT One for exampleBook Kurt Dussander  kills himself by taking an overdosis sleeping pills, he does this to take the easy way out so he does not have to face a horrible death the Israelian secret service would give him.Film Kurt Dussander blows air in his veins and kills himself that way! That is NOT taking the easy way out.  "},{"Title":"* out of ****","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  In the end, I did not understand this movie.  It is quite literally a complete waste of time, much like Disturbing Behavior.  I'm surprised this movie took so long to make.  All was for not unfortunately.  The movie was a complete bore.  I didn't feel the old guy's influence rubbed off so much on the little guy.  He was already a weird-ass bastard before and saw very little change.  This is one movie that didn't need to be made. "},{"Title":"A sure-fire miss","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed in this film because I felt that it had very little momentum and I did not understand the high school kids motivation.  The plot twists are unbelievable and I thought that Brad Renfro's acting was appalling.  So many reviews I read were positive, but I just thought this film was mediocre at best.  I am certainly glad I didn't go to the theatre to see it.  If you like Stephen King adaptations see Dolores & Claiborne, Misery or Shawshank Redemption.  They are much better movies. "},{"Title":"So many coincidences that it's totally dumb!","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This may be a movie based on a Stephen King novel, but that's no excuse for fatally obvious coincidences. Here's an example (This is not a spoiler) when Bowden sees Dussander on the bus at the beginning and notices almost immedietly that he was a death camp officer from a photo. How could he tell it was him almost a century later, and why would he happen to see him (in his town) coinciding with a course in his class about WWII? Or a scene when Dussander was in the same hospital, same room as a former camp prisoner (and the prisoner recognized him immediately without any problem.) But that's not all. There's so many of these 'occurrencies' to describe, you'll be surprised how many more you see if you see it for yourself.And then there's the characters. Who do we stand up for? Nobody. Ian McKellen plays a former Nazi camp officer, a character unbearably rank at start. And Brad Renfro's character isn't much better, because he's intrigued by him and the whole idea of it. The rest of the characters were so flat and so gulible that any and all credibility is lost. What's left is a dismal talkfest with animal torture and other unpleasant scenes thrown it.The release of this movie was delayed for almost a year. Bryan Singer (director of the Fabulous The Usual Suspects) was in major turmoil over a shower scene in the film which featured supposedly underage males. It took a whole year to clear everything up until it was eventually released. Frankly, it would of made no difference to me if the movie wasn't released AT ALL. "},{"Title":"A decent rent.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished viewing this movie, and I have to say that I was kinda disappointed.  It was just a blah version of a great Stephen King story. My biggest problem was the resolution of the entire plot.  In the end, although I can't go into plot specifics, of course, I would have handled the entire situation in a different way, if I was the kid.  That disappointed me the most.  It is decent, but definitely not memorable. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A boy find out that a former war criminal lives in his town and blackmails the old man unless the old man tells the boy about his encounters during the war.Interesting thriller has good performances but is very disturbing.Was the scene where the old man roasts the cat really needed?Rating*** (out of five) "}{"Title":"A disappointing movie that didn't do much for me","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Sir Ian McKellan and Brad Renfro star in this film about what happened during the second world war through the eyes of a Nazi war criminal. Brad Renfro plays Todd Bowden a student who wants to probe into the life of a nazi war criminal who lives next door to him. Todd uses everything he can to get info from Arthur Dussander played by McKellan. Todd uses blackmail in order to get what he wants but it soon backfires as McKellan reverses the game as he plays with Todd's mind. This movie missed with me because all it did was skate around what happened and instead of taking something away from it, I saw nothing but psychological games being played that didn't quite cut it for me. If I wanted to see better psychological games I could have rented The Silence Of The Lambs. Apt Pupil wasted the talents of McKellan and Renfro with a lame story. It had a lot of room for improvement. This is not a movie I would jump out of my seat and go to the video store to rent the movie again. * out of ****  "},{"Title":"apt pupil is an interesting film","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  apt pupil is an interesting film. it's sometimes hard to understand. it doesn't go out of it's way to entertain you. but it's pretty entertaining,and interesting. it's like the movie would never end. every time you think it's gonna end.here comes something else. all in all an interesting film. i give it **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The mystery behind this undistinguished film is guesswork.","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Appalling is the magic word of the day. The images of the Holocaust are appalling. The violence is appalling. The failed script and a bunch of old horror cliches are beyond appalling. APT PUPIL is interesting given its point of view of Nazis and WW2, but this movie novella needed far better execution to live up to its potential. Stephen King's works usually provides the reader and viewer some detective work that has us to keep on guessing for possible outcomes until the curtain falls, so this makes reliable use of this mystery thriller. It's so dark and haunting in description, yet it suddenly veers off into the quiet galaxy....perhaps too quiet. You're expecting a movie translation to be more powerful and more intense than the written work. There is a slight touch of the supernatural that goes without explanations that ask Why?. Those who are addicted to reading hours of King's material may soon realize why it is a crime to watch average movies like APT PUPIL. This is the movies, and you might grab some attention with its details taken from and inspired by the novella. Clues make it pretty easy to follow, but there's very little to distinguish what should have really been a horrifying suspense in the first place.  "},{"Title":"Apt Pupil is an interesting film","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty good. Sometimes it was hard to understand, but at the same time interesting. All in all a pretty good movie. I give this movie **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Where's the suspense?!?","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Can't help but notice the sad fact that none of the suspense from the book has survived the translation to the screen. The movie is pretty basic and I ask myself if Bryan Singer had a one-hit-wonder with the excellent Usual Suspects a couple of years ago. Not even the original ending is left in the movie, instead we get the regular happy-Hollywood-ending. Basically this movie is one bad translation of a superb book, therefore read the book instead! "},{"Title":"Cops out at the end","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The original Stephen King novella is one of the most disturbing things I've ever read, and the movie approaches that power, but it never quite catches it, despite great performances by Ian McKellen(who's better here than in GODS AND MONSTERS) and Brad Renfro.  A lot has been made of Renfro's character being older than in the book, but I didn't have a problem with that.  What I did have a problem with was we don't sense, as we did in the book, how Todd(Renfro) is infected by Dussander(McKellen).  Someone said how Todd becomes like Dussander at the end, but I felt someone felt nervous about King's ending.  Anyway, as I said, the performances are great(and I thought David Schwimmer was fine, and I'm not a fan), and Bryan Singer has the same command of atmosphere that he did in PUBLIC ACCESS and THE USUAL SUSPECTS, but the story lets down at the end.  Oh, well, at least SUSPECTS writer Christopher McQuarrie is writing Singer's next film, X-MEN, so there's hope. "},{"Title":"So Much Promise, So Little Delivery","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Since I saw the trailer in August, I'd been anxiously waiting for Apt Pupil to come to the local cineplex.  The imagery I saw was both horrifying and disturbing, drawing on the most horrific period in history.  This had the potential to be both psychologically thrilling and a wake-up call to people ignorant to the atrocities during the Third Reich.Of course, that was just the trailer.  Frankly, I was more than disappointed when I finally saw Apt Pupil.  First, the movie jumped around too much in the opening scenes.  Then, it seemed as if the film would deliver on its promise.Much to my amazement, the film fell flat on its face!!!  Not even Dussander's stories were compelling.  The characters were rather two-dimensional, and eventually the movie became nothing more than two people keeping a dirty little secret while killing someone along the way.If you want to experience Apt Pupil in its truer colors, read the Stephen King novella in Different Seasons.  For the same $6, you can read a fascinating and unnerving story and enjoy three more.  Watch the film, and the only thing you'll find yourself enjoying is the flat soda and stale popcorn.Disturbing, eh? "},{"Title":"A really bad movie that had such potential","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't know the story going into this film and had no expectations other than the theater trailers.  The acting of Renfro and McKellen was passable, but all the supporting characters were as believable as cardboard.  Dave Schwimmer managed to make me laugh in a pretty non-comedic role.  The plot was absolutely predictable and a complete disappointment.  At best this is a rental, don't waste your money at a theater. "},{"Title":"Apt Pupil  A Big Disappointment","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Apt Pupil is not at all like a Stephen King movie.  There is no evil or strange happenings.  It is a big disappointment.  I am not saying it was a bad movie, it just has false pretenses.  It is just about a boy who is obsessed with the Holocaust and wants to no everything about it, from the Nazi's point of view. So he blackmails an old man into telling him about it, and eventually the old man gets some vibes from the power he used to have, but not much.  It is more of a dreary drama, than the revitalizing horror chiller it is suppost to be.  Don't waste your money!  Rent it!  As for the acting Ian McKellen is great! Sorry Brad, you pretty much sucked. "},{"Title":"Groovin'","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie! Every one should see it! It scared the livin' daylights out of me!! "}{"Title":"A Big Let Down","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Apt Pupil had the potential to be a great movie. A Script by Stephen King and actors such as Ian McKellen  should have been a great recipe for a great film but i'm afraid it was not. Dont get me wrong , Apt Pupil is OK ,but thats as far as goes. The film starts well then dies off for an hour and picks up again at the end , which is a big let down. McKellen is good as usual but its hard to be brilliant when the story is a big anti climax. I havent read the actual book by Stephen King but i would be interested to see how true it is to the story as Stephen King didnt actually write the Screen play. I also feel they should have had flash backs to the time the old man was a nazi to give it a little be of realism.  6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"implausible, pointless, laughably bad....etc., etc.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  this was the closest i've ever come to leaving a theater. i was so disappointed with this movie, because it really had great potential.my god, did it fail miserably! first of all, the boy does all this investigating on the old man to see if his suspicions are true-that he is indeed a nazi war criminal.well? why not SHOW at least a little of this meticulous process? i'm sure it could be done in a way without making it too tedious.(not having any respect for the audience-STRIKE ONE.) second of all, why the homosexual undertones? two wordsSHOCK VALUE. this aspect of the film only added to the confusion, and lack of direction. then you have the many scenes that left me saying (out loud, i might add) what the hell was that??!! for instancewhy make the old man appear to be just an old man trying to escape his past, and then have him throw a cat in an oven?! or why the extra-over-the-top marching in place scene? or killing the homeless man? does anyone actually believe that just because someone committed horrible acts under orders from their government, would of course have to be evil incarnate, and incapable of living alongside other people ever again? i think that's ridiculous! also, what the hell kind of relationship was that between the old man, and the boy? one minute, the man appears to be a willing mentor, and grandfather to the boy, the next minute he's trying to blackmail him, or frame him for murder! i know, i know, it was showing how there's evil in everyone. yeah, when stephen king is involved, everybody's got a dark secret. oooooooo..... oh, and don't worry cause they all get punished in the end. why was david schwimmer in this film? why was david scwimmer's moustache in this film? my guess is comic relief. after all that intense drama, we need a few laughs right? too bad they were all unintentional! it just makes the point perfectly clear that this movie has no point. actually, it just missed the point. (wasting the audiences time-STRIKE TWO) last but not least, we have the final shot of the film. now, i know the boy was a high school athelete.ok.  the last thing i need after enduring two hours of mudled crap, is a silly, pretentious ending like that! please don't try reading anything into that shot, you're wasting brain cells!(horrible ending-STRIKE THREE) YOU'RE OUT!!! i got the hell out for some fresh air.what a waste of time this movie was, not to mention talent! maybe good enough for a tv movie. i don't know, i doubt even U.S.A. network would want to make its viewers feel THIS dirty! i'm trying so hard to forget this stinker. please don't put yourself through this! if you've already seen it, i feel for you, and if you enjoyed it, then i pity you. you are easily pleased. oh yeah, i liked the cinematography.    "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  As far as Stephen King-based movies go, I decided after sitting through this movie, that it was by far the worst one of them all.  The movie did not keep me at the edge of my seat, it vaguely stayed on the same track of the novella by Stephen King, and last but not least, it was borrrrrrrring.I have heard that Stephen King sold the rights to his movies awhile ago, and this just proves my theory  Stephen King can put out great novels, but the movie writers muck up the story just to make that almighty dollar.In short, if you are a huge Stephen King fan, just stick to reading his books; don't watch the movies, because it is a waste of an evening.  "},{"Title":"terrible waste of time","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I read the story by Stephen King about 15 years ago and I still remember most of the story vividly.  It was one of the most powerful stories I have read in my life and I had high hopes for the movie, especially since The Usual Suspects was such a good film.  But, I was disappointed.  Somehow, they managed to take everything that made the story powerful and remove it from the film.  The story was a very disturbing study of the nature of evil and it's ability to be infectious.  The film was nothing but a study in mediocrity.  I saw a few people even walk out of the theater and never return the film was so bad.  When the film was over, and we got up to leave, I overheard someone say, Whay did they make that?  What was the point? Whoever said that was correct, there was no point to this inept adaption of what could have been a powerful film. "},{"Title":"A mockery of the real thing","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was not bad if it was made as a movie but since it was first a novel by Stephen King, it was the biggest joke I've ever seen.  Granted no movie is as good or better than the book (except for Interview with the Vampire) I believe there is no way that Stephen King would have endorsed Bryan Singer's work here.  The story is actually way more intricate than whatever it is I just watched.  If you want to know what real evil and control and fear is, read the novel.  Does anyone who even saw the movie and have not read the book know what the title means?  Come on. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing (Spoiler)","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Funny that Stephen King's short stories generally make for better movies than his novels. Unfortunately, this is one of the exceptions.Its biggest failing is at the end. In the story, Todd Bowden kills Ed French; here, he instead decides to accuse him (wrongly) of being gay and to threaten him with exposure on that score. Why? The original ending added to the overall grimness that made the story so memorable; this change is just pointless.Up to then, the story meanders rather. Brad Renfro is a pallid protagonist, though Ian McKellen is a convincing and chilling villain.A missed opportunity then. For better examples of films based on King short stories, see The Shawshank Redemption and Stand By Me.Rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"Stunningly tasteless waste of film","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I am watching the The Apt Pupil and I'm trying to imagine if I'd be more insulted by the subtext if I were a Jew. The film's emphasis on the two characters psychopathic tendencies serve to obviate them of responsibility for their actions. The message is, Nazis and their admirers can't be held responsible for the atrocities they commit and admire because they're crazy. This is a cop out in the film and in the real world. Anyone who has seen The Man Who Fell from Grace with the Sea has seen the better film about this subject. In this film, the Holocaust is merely a toy, a tantalizing sweet just out of reach of the two characters. The atrocities of the Holocaust are objectified and stripped of their importance. It's not often you see Jews and Jewishness representing the other or local color. That convention is usually limited to people of color, thrown in to illuminate by contrast the main (white) characters. This is a tasteless, insensitive and stupid movie. (Intriguing number of Teutonic names in the credits, too...)M. D.  "},{"Title":"NASTY NAZI","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The Usual Suspects needs no more praise, and The X-Men was one of the most intelligent summer blockbusters in years. So it's all the more surprising how awful this film is. You elicit no sympathy for either character, and only wish their comeuppance would speed along. Only worth watching for Schwimmer's moustache. "},{"Title":"A Hard to Watch picture  ***1/2 out of ****","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Apt Pupil is a powerful, unsettling story about the evil in all of us. Based on a Stephen King story out Different Seasons, that I have never read, so cannot offer any comparison. King himself, is my personal favorite author, because of his morbid thinking and scary talent.There are some extremely disturbing scenes in Apt Pupil, ones that not only form from the flashbacks and murders, but also from other character responses that accrue for the happenings. There was even a sequence that startled me into a psychological fright that took place in a hospital between two men, one asleep. It's not about what happens, it about how the characters react.The films' performances were outstanding. Ian McKellen's may be rewarded appropriately at Academy Award time. He really brings up a realistic evil character from the bottom of his soul, and plays it profoundly and willingly.  Brad Renfro is also outstanding in his role, and brings out the curiosity and adventure that a real person would in his situation. David Schwimmer was laughable, but worked well. Regardless, all he characters were highly entertaining.Apt Pupil is not without problems. Take the flawful opening for instance. The movie never answers the question why is Todd so interested in the holocaust. We never see him develop his scheme. The evil in this film isn't made as clear as it could have been and Director Bryan Singer easily becomes distracted from the point.But those are but minor complaints. It's not every day that you walk out of the theater in a state of unease and thinking to yourself Ouch! This is a very hard movie to watch and I don't recommend it to those who are squeamish.After seeing this movie I found myself looking into the newspaper and finding an ad to this movie with several promotion comments. One of the Boldest Movies of this Year, says John Polly from Genre Magazine.I couldn't have said it better myself.  "},{"Title":"Horrifying movie that focuses on bad components and nothing uplifting but has good acting and symbolism","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The film was very well performed, but its focus was entirely on the bad parts of the Holocaust. It was extremely emotional and had some very good symbolism. There was nothing uplifting about the film or anything, during any part, that was good. The boy was a jerk, and the Nazi man was purely evil. I was horrified throughout the movie, even though I learned a bit. DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE IF YOU ARE COMPASSIONATE OR SENSITIVE!  "}{"Title":"Harrowing Letdown","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Certainly not as good as Usual Suspects but not the disaster manyimplied it to be, this is a well acted, interesting adaptation of theuber-creepy Stephen King story. Unfortunately there's a numb quality tothe movie (no matter how shocking it tries to be) which sets in early onand never fades. ian McKellen is his usual terrific and Brad Renfro isperfectly cast. All in all, a 6 out of 10 and definitely worth a look(But maybe not ow "},{"Title":"AWFUL!","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for this movie, it looked like it could certainly be interesting. It'd been a long time since I read the novella (by Stephen King) which the film is based on, so I thought it'd have a decent chance of being impressive. In reality, it was absolutely wretched and painful to watch.Ian McKellen gives a decent performance as a Nazi, but at the same time, has way too many conflicting behaviors to make sense.  Brad Renfro is quite simply a disappointment after a marvelous performance in Sleepers. In general, the acting in this movie just doesn't ever interest me.David Schwimmer did a decent job, but I'm sorry Mr. Schwimmer, talk to the costume designer. The moustache is so obviously fake that I laughed through his scenes anyway.Director Bryan Singer succeeded in one thing the film is creepy. But just because it simply misses on every point it tries to make. And the acting that does work...is the theme of homosexuality (including Renfro's tantrum over seeing McKellen in his Nazi uniform). Most of the film is excessive, and some of it just flat out doesn't make sense.  "},{"Title":"What Stinks in here? Apt Pupil.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Bad movie!! Poorly constructed, poorly portrayed, poorly performed. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, Muddled, and without Merit","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING  may contain spoilers.Despite having occasional scenes which both alarm and engross the viewer, 'Apt Pupil' is a mess.I felt most akin to the guidance counselor Mr. French.  On the one hand resolute against the non-meaning of the film, yet  facsinated by the power of false allegations or threats thereof by both the pupil and the SS man.  The film treated the subject of false allegations and their power with expertise.  However, and to be sure, the film primarily focused on silly and meaningless stereotypes.The premise of the pupil blackmailing the hardened SS man was silly enough.  Bunting the blackmailing back and forth as some sort of psychological badminton did the film in.What really offends the senses is the none to subtle treatment within the scenes in which the old Nazi resorts to his past bad habits.  First,  why is it that the filmmakers place the old Nazi and the Patin death camp?  I've never heard of this camp.  Is this some reference to Patton the general?Second, when the old Nazi decides to bake a cat in his gas kitchen oven, we can clearly see Made in the USA embossed on the burners.  What is that all about?Hollywood doesn't craft images for nothing.  I posit, that no oven ever made has big bold Made in the USA letters on their interior burners.To set the record straight, the Holocaust was not Made in the USA.  Patin/Patton and american ovens hold not part in that sorry history of mankind.  Wrong country wrong continent, period  paragraph!On another note, why is this guy cooking cats?  I thought he was trying to put his past behind him.  His character was scary enough, the filmmakers didn't have to be comic to convince us of  his evil.The film delivered well in its portrayal of the student's parents and the psychologically troubled vagrant.  They were interesting and believable.  In addition, David Schwimmer did an  excellent job as Ed French.  Not enough to save this wreck, but  it did rescue the film from the notorious 1 rating.  As such, I  give it a 2 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"We Walked Out","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Only saw the first 20-30 minutes.  Barely made it through the cat scene - after the pigeon thing my friends and I agreed we couldn't exit the theater fast enough.  I enjoy artistic depictions of the dark side of nature, but from the little I saw of this movie, the premise was unbelievable and the violence gratuitous and merely presented for the shock value.  I gave this movie a 1 rating only because there was no 0 to choose. "},{"Title":"The Pornographer of Horror Returns","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen King, the popular pornographer of horror, returns to the screen. Despite the hype, this film, like all his work, is without socially redeeming value.  There are better ways to spend one's time. "},{"Title":"Unlikely and unpleasant b.s. from a Stephen King short...","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" After getting an A on his term paper about the Holocaust, a teenage boy (talented Brad Renfro) becomes Holocaust-obsessed, quickly finding an escaped Nazi war-criminal living in his own hometown! Never mind how irresponsible all this is, the film doesn't know where its sympathies lie, and showing our young hero drawing swastikas over and over on his notebook paper isn't exactly an affirmation of his character. Renfro is at such a loss with this script, he can't even come up with the semblance of a believable characterization. After squirming through an hour and ten minutes, I bailed out. Absolute rock bottom trash! All involved, including Ian McKellen as the aged Dussander and director Bryan Singer, should've known better. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Grotesque Psycho-Drama That Doesn`t Quite Gel","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The problem I had with APT PUPIL is that I found myself being unable to feel any sympathy for the two protagonists of the story , one of which is a Nazi war criminal who served in every major death camp during the war and a teenage boy who is blackmailing Herr Nazi war criminal for his own ends . Come to think of it what are Todd`s ends ? I`m just asking because I`ve forgotten what Todd`s motives were . Something about writing a thesis was it ? That`s right , but for some reason the motives seem to change into Todd going on a slightly nasty ego trip . I guess the point is that we`re all latent Nazis but this point is slightly unfocussed , in fact much of the film is unfocussed until the last half hour which turns into a  Will they or won`t they be found out  type thriller . Unfortunately this last part is driven by too much coincidence and a rather unconvincing plot twist . I don`t want to be totally negative however since it is very well acted and some small attempt has been made via a dinner table scene to humanise the war criminal , but like I said Nazis and power crazed blackmailers aren`t going to get too much sympathy from me    "}]