[{"Title":"Unpleasant Story of Envy","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In November 1989, in Ireland, the baker Bimbo (Donal O'Kelly) is fired from his job and he does not feel comfortable with the situation. His best friend Larry (Colm Meaney), who is also unemployed and living with his low welfare with his wife Mary (Caroline Rothwell) and their children, is resigned with his situation and tries to console his friend. But Bimbo is supported by his wife Maggie (Ger Ryan) and decides to buy an abandoned van without engine in a junkyard to open a business of hamburger, French fries and fried codfish and invites Larry to work with him. Soon they have financial success but their friendship is compromised.The Van is a dramatic comedy directed by Stephen Frears that has a funny and exciting beginning and an unpleasant conclusion. The friendship of Larry and Bimbo is beautiful to see and their success is what every viewer expects to see. However, the final twist with the attitude of the big-mouth and envious Larry is disappointing. Maybe the bitter story is more realistic this way but I would prefer a happy ending, valuating friendship and hard work. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) A Van (The Van) "},{"Title":"not the van-guard of Roddy Doyle adaptations, but still worth seeing","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, apparently, Colm Meaney (happy birthday, Colm!) is best known for a Star Trek role, but I always associate him with his roles in adaptations of Roddy Doyle novels. They are The Commitments, The Snapper and The Van. The last one casts as a down-on-his-luck Dubliner who with his friend finds a grimy abandoned van and opens it up. While I mostly liked the movie, it did have the problem of showing the Irish drinking and moping about life's travails; is that the only way to stereotype people from the Emerald Isle? But otherwise, I found it a pretty good look at working-class life in Ireland. Once again, Stephen Frears added another accomplishment to his resume, recently continued with The Queen. I recommend it, and see whether or not you want to get a bite to eat from any random van after watching this. "},{"Title":"Uneven but with a distinct allure, The Van is an odd little film that meshes humour with social realism and whose cherry on top is a study of 'men in crisis'.","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Van, a 1996 Stephen Frears film who would go on to much better things, takes on the ideas of desperate, inglorious situations and scenarios, such as unemployment, and wraps them up into packages ready to be delivered as comedy. There is nothing at all funny about the situation the two leads in the film find themselves in, but there is something distinctly charming about the way in which they deal with it.While not essentially British, a given thanks to the over emphasis on how wonderful it was for the characters to witness the Irish football team pull back a goal and hold on for a draw against the English, while most of the other matches go unnoticed. However, it is directed by an Englishman and the film does posses rather a few items that were written about in regards to some growing fears and concerns simmering at the time within the British film industry, with particular attention to the comedy genre. If we recall Claire Monk's writings in the late 1990s, we might think of films such as Brassed Off and The Full Monty as being films depicting jobless British males turning to alternate methods of money making to get by; effectively rendering the crisis of post-industrialism (closure of mines and steel mills) as a crisis of masculinity. She also writes about these films transitioning problematic situations into comic solutions. These ideas and scenarios might be applicable to The Van, a film that spins job-loss and perceived men in crisis into a series of jokes and gags; a film that, like said examples, see the leads turn to either an entertainment or cultural supply and demand industry, in which they eventually come to relish.One of the two leads in The Van is Bimbo (O'Kelly), a man who has lost his job and gets by off of his redundancy money. The other is Larry (Meaney), and between them, they aim to get a portable fast food outlet up and running. Whilst it's not about becoming strippers or brass-band musicians, it is essentially about two men turning to cooking and meal preparation by way of getting by. Its set up; a male panic, followed by a lot of sitting around complete with head scratching before hitting upon an idea to move into what is a form of the cooking industry, sees the two leads adopt a culinary position; something that Monk may have been alluding two when she describes early 1990s 'new men' as having to now share the once sole motherly burdens; this of course includes cooking and meal preparation. Yes, it's a fast-food van but the progressive realisation that the only way to deal with the 'panic' is to do something thought of initially as somewhat unthinkable and hapless, is certainly explored; the last resort, 'you'll never see me doing that/in one of those things' notion is tested before becoming the source of humour. One character refers to burger vans as portable 'food poisoning', before succumbing to working within one later on.The van of the title acts as both a physical representation for the nucleus of the two leads' study, but also as a cinematic space in which it is able to play out. When we first encounter the van, it is located in a desolate and sorry place; a place that sees its characters struggle to push their way through all the other hazards around it just to catch a glimpse. The van is broken, worn-out and decrepit &#x96; it's seen better days. But the van is transformed; it is updated and goes through a process of modernity before, in time, is back up and running and solving the characters' problems. The process the van goes through is similar to that of the main characters, as these beaten and well-worn individuals whom have seen better days suddenly becoming success stories again; garnering a final day in the sun.But if The Van is supposed to be a comedy, blending in the harsh and realistic working class life of terrace house living; cramped conditions; redundancy and frustrations with one's overall life with what is, I think, supposed to be a 'feel-good' approach; then it's not a terribly funny one. One of the film's stranger scenes applies a very visceral sense of humour whilst exploiting what little knowledge these perceived men in crisis actually know about the kitchen 'space'; that being when Larry scolds himself whilst trying to deep fry fish and fry eggs, with the fat popping and jumping up onto his forehead and hands thus scolding him. It's an odd scene; a scene in which the male is ill-suited to his culinary surroundings, we are invited to laugh before realising that if he doesn't get back in there, give it another crack and get it right then his life will get doubly worse in an instant.But The Van has charm, although its charm isn't really enough. It doesn't invite us to laugh at two people on the skids as much as it does invite us to marvel and be entertained at the manner in which they refuse to buckle and hit rock-bottom. The film's humour is too wavy, either settling for scenes in which its characters are under the influence of alcohol or instances in which the burger van is mobbed by a sea of customers all shouting and ordering at once which, and granted, I haven't ordered many meals from many burger vans, but I'm smart enough to know, just doesn't happen. However, you might say its inconsistencies and its broad, uneven feel help in adding to its overall charm of two people just trying to get by; and I wouldn't really begrudge anyone for being fond of it for that. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable little drama despite lacking the wider meaning I had hoped it would have","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When Brenda 'Bimbo' Reeves is laid off he finds himself on the dole and irking out a unfulfilling life with friend Larry. When a 'friend' sells them a clapped out old chip van Bimbo and Larry decide to make a go of it and, once they have removed an inch of grease from the van and worked out how to move it without an engine, they are in business. With the pubs crammed due to the 1990 World Cup, business looks great and, as Ireland continue to win their way through the tournament, things just look like getting better and better.Being from Northern Ireland myself, I always find something to like in Doyle's very typical delivery and, as such, will always give the films adapted from his work a try. With The Van doing average business in the cinemas, I had to wait till it came onto television before I could get a chance to see it and it was as I expected, an enjoyable working-class fable of friendship set against the backdrop of unemployment. As such it is pretty good &#150; providing good humour throughout as well as a nice build of tension between the two friends. What I didn't think it did very well was deliver something beyond the boundaries the film had set itself. By this I mean I had expected that the film would be more realistic whereas it really was more of a fable with a moral about friendship over money; it is not a bad thing that it did this but the film could have been stronger with it in my opinion.However, for what it tries to do it manages to be slight but amusing with a good little turn into the dramatic towards the end to set up the lesson for the day. The cast fit the bill for this type of material as well; Meaney may well have been in several big American hits but he is more at home here and he is a totally convincing working class Irish man. O'Kelly is just as good for different reasons &#150; he is the same class but one who thought he was out; maybe you need to have lived around these sorts of areas but I thought he was realistic enough. The two have good chemistry and the support cast are also good value.Overall this is not the best of Doyle's films but it is an enjoyable little slice of Irish life &#150; albeit very simplified and served up in a sauce of cheerful poverty. The script doesn't go deeper than the superficial issues of friendship but this still work well enough and they produce an enjoyable little Irish fable that is amusing as it delivers a lesson about friendship that is thankfully free of sentimentality or slush.  "},{"Title":"Friendship and class struggle","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the story of two men belonging to the the Irish working class who after being sacked decide to start a business with a van for making and selling hamburgers and the like stuff. After a while their mutual relationship turns into a boss-employee one and things began to become worse until because friendship is thicker than money they began again to get well along with each other. The story is told in a half serious half funny way. It's very simple but not the less deep because of that. It's full of amusing episodes and details of everyday life but its very true, authentic and realistic.  "},{"Title":"This film rocks","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Anyone who lived through the drama of the Italia 90 World Cup in Ireland should watch this movie. It brings back the drama and memories..but that is not all.The film really shows how friendship comes with a price.Simple folk, simple situation and the humour of the Irish really create a great story.My favourite moment in the film is when a little chubby kid strolls up to the van and asks for a choc ice. I won't spoil it but what happens then had me in stitches.GENIUS! "},{"Title":"Friendship and Business Seldom Mix Successfully","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two Irish men with wives and children find themselves on the dole. One of them buys a large van and turns it into a chippy. Naturally, he asks his best friend to work there with him. These two approaching-middle-age men have to work incredibly hard, but do have some success at the venture. It doesn't take long, however, for the friendship to get in the way. The one who fronted the money for the van is the boss, and the other one who didn't put up any money to get the small business going is the employee, who eventually becomes bitter at drawing a weekly paycheck from his best friend, who joins a union and begins antagonizing his best friend about labor laws, and whose insecurity in life shows clearly -- after all, the job isn't glamorous by any means, and of course, the reality of it is far removed from his dreams, we should imagine. The tension grows between the two. Set in Ireland during a World Cup Finals competition in soccer, this film gives us an intimate, grungy peek at the everyday realities of the poor in Ireland. It's grand to venture forth and set up one's own business and get off the dole, but of course, things are unlikely to run smoothly. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Irish Comedy!","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  YES, it's a european movie...thank God! What I like best in this movie is that it doesn't take place in that clean US-environment with all those actors, who look like super-models. It's a real life story with people, who could be just your neighbours, which adds even more to the realism. They're all so emotional, so funny, so average looking, so...real! You can't help but love them after just a few minutes! In addition, this film is very very funny, the plot is good and offers occasions for a lot of funny situations, although I think you just have to like this kind of humour. Like I said, this is a very real film and so are the jokes. Just imagine you'd be a tourist in that small town somewhere in Ireland and you watch all those funny and odd people there. Sounds boring? Well, I didn't think so! Of course, it's also well shot. It looks different from a US Film (not a crime...yet) and maybe not too expensive, but hey, do you really need a lot of money to make a good comedy? ;)There really should be more of these films. If you liked Waking Ned, The Full Monty and Brassed Off, you're gonna love this one. "},{"Title":"Not even the best film about a snack van","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Roddy Doyle's Barrytown trilogy was an affectionate, humorous but unsentimental look at life in the poor suburbs of Dublin; all three books have now been turned into films. 'The Commitments', directed by Alan Parker, was virtually a musical; in the original, Doyle hilariously peppered his text with fragments of the lyrics of the songs his protagonists (a soul band) were singing; in the film, the songs were played straight, and pretty much in their entirety, and some of the subtleties of the plot were also lost. Stephen Frears did better in making a low key film of book two, and is also at the directorial helm for this film of the final book. 'The Van' represented a slight change of direction for Doyle, a weighter piece of fiction than his earlier efforts; but it's still fun, and a sensitive portrait of male friendship. However, I don't like the film very much, even though it is quite faithful to the book in both content and tone; for in spite of this, it has lost the spark, and the vision, that the writing possessed, and appears coarse and clumsy in comparison. An Eric Clapton score is used insensitively, underscoring dialogue with unnecessary frequency; the acting (especially from Colm Meaney) renders the characters close to parody; the camera work is needlessly jumpy; while the plot is reduced to a series of set-piece encounters. This is supposedly a naturalistic movie, but never manages to convey the rhythms of ordinary life. While judged as against other films that tell tales of working class survival, it has not the political anger of the works of Ken Loach, the emotional impact of 'Brassed Off' or the jauntiness of 'The Full Monty'. Perhaps the most cruel cinematic comparison, however, brought to obvious attention by the prominent presence of a decrepit snack van, is with Mike Leigh's 'Life is Sweet', a film whose originality and desperate humour make a stark contrast with the dull clichéd Oirishisms on display here. Conclusion read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Still a fun ride","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's November 1989. Bimbo (Donal O'Kelly) is fired from the bakery. His best mate Larry (Colm Meaney) is struggling with only welfare for the coming Christmas. Bimbo is about to consider a MacDonald McJob when the guys are shown a food van. It's a piece of junk that doesn't even have an engine. Bimbo's wife buys the van and he invites Larry to join him selling fish and chips. Their chips van does smashingly as Ireland advances in the World Cup.It's a steady decline from 'The Commitments' to 'The Snapper' and then to this. A more direct connection would have been better but I'm not an entertainment lawyer. It's still a fun watch. Donal O'Kelly doesn't have the screen presence. Colm Meaney is back and he overshadows everybody else. The trick is to make these poor losers lovable. Colm Meaney has that in spades. It would be better for them to get a steady young kid as their third. The relationship in the van is where this movie could have excel more. The guys' friendship could be more likable. I especially didn't like them picking up the ladies at the bar. Even their bickering could have been done with a lighter touch. Nevertheless it's still a fun ride. "}{"Title":"The only feel good thing about this movie is that it feels good not to be like these guys","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A friend of mine said that this is a feel good movie. It makes you feel good that your life does not suck as much as theirs does. This is a very interesting movie as it is about mateship. Two men loose their jobs and find a rotting van which they salvage and turn into a chip van. They have absolutely no idea as to how to run a such a van, but do so anyway. The movie looks at how they struggle through their mateship in relation to the van.Larry (Colm Meanly) is a big mouthed know it all. It is his character that the movie is based around and he steals the scene in most of the movie. Bimbo is the owner of the van but he is pushed to the side with Larry's almost dominant character. The movie looks at the struggle that they go through and how their friendship begins to disintegrate with the van. Larry acts constantly without consulting Bimbo and this angers him greatly. Twice he hires family without even saying anything to Bimbo.There isn't much in the way to comment on this film for it really looks at life of two people in Ireland in the early '90's. Much of the things come out of the two characters and how we watch the friendship fall apart. It is an interesting movie in the way a couple of things are conducted, such as when the van is rolled back to Bimbo's house and a huge crowd follows them, signifying a new start to their seemingly meaningless life.Much of the trouble can be seen with the way Larry treats the privilege of working with Bimbo in the van. He is stubborn and sulks. When given a wage he begins to play union with Bimbo. He treats customers with disrespect and finds himself in trouble numerous times. We shouldn't feel good that our life is not like theirs, but rather look at them and learn about how we are responsible for what happens to us. We shouldn't go pushing others around and then complain that they don't like us, rather we should just not push others around, and if we do, then accept the consequences. "},{"Title":"It's like the inside of a leper!","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Van is directed by Stephen Frears and written by Roddy Doyle. It stars Colm Meaney, Donal O'Kelly, Ger Ryan and Caroline Rothwell. Music is by Eric Clapton and Richard Hartley and cinematography by Oliver Stapleton. It is the third film in Roddy Doyle's Barrytown Trilogy, it was preceded by The Comittments and The Snapper. Plot sees Meaney and O'Kelly as best pals who after struggling with unemployment decide to do up an old fast food van and make a living out of selling burgers and chips. Initially it's a fulsome venture as the country is taken over mu football fervour during the 1990 World Cup finals in Italy, but it's not long before cracks begin to appear in the two friends' relationship.Often raucous and very funny, with deft moments of human drama, The Van is an entertaining picture if one can get past the stereotypes. Meaney dominates proceedings, not just because of his acting gusto, but because he gets to shout all the best lines! The spectre of unemployment is given an assured telling by Frears, and the impact of Ireland's football team on the community is most telling, but there is barely enough material to cover the 100 minutes running time, meaning that entering the final stretch, as the story goes serious, it begins to run out of petrol. Still, the good will garnered during the best scenes in the van more than make it a safe recommendation for adults who like a bit of Oirish mirth. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Conclusion to the Barrytown trilogy","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Colm Meaney returns for the third time in Roddy Doyle's 'Barrytown' trilogy as Larry the father of a Dublin family, he is currently unemployed and lacking prospects when his close friend Bimbo also loses his job. But Bimbo has a plan, the two will partner up to operate a chip van and take advantage of the upcoming 1990 World Cup when no one will have any time to cook, their enterprise will be known as 'Bimbo's Burgers'. Starting off with filthy rundown and engine less van they have their triumphs and their squabbles but always with their families close by.It's a nice slice of life story about friendship, with some wonderful funny moments, this was the type of film Britain did so well in this era, no spectacular effects just a good story, a good cast and a solid production. The film also features music by Eric Clapton.The Barrytown trilogy from Roddy Doyle also included The Commitments and The Snapper. Both The Van and The Snapper were directed by Stephen Frears perhaps best known now for The Queen for which he received an Oscar nomination, he was also nominated for The Grifters. While both of these films are definitely worth watching, the best of the three by far is The Commitments which was directed by Alan Parker. "},{"Title":"Look out for the brilllant choc-ice scene.","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one my favourite films ever! My friends and I hold this film in a cult status. The personality and charm of this film is evident and well crafted by Stephen Frears and Roddy Doyle. The characters are real, vulnerable, hilariously foolish and very oafish. Many viewers well recognise Colm Meaney for his most well-known role as the jovial, charming and sometimes slightly foolish Miles O'Brien from star trek. His character's relationship with 'Bimbo' is highly watchable. The story is charming and funny and the jokes are very similar to Doyle's other work and in that they feature a number of brilliantly executed, Irish tinged expletives. The sheer number of f**ks or 'focks' in this movies surely must rival Casino for sweariest film ever!! Bottom line is, the humour is super down to earth in hilariously pathetic situations and the fact that THIS FILM HAS NOT BEEN RELEASED ON DVD!! is a disgrace. Everybody will laugh at this film, and for trek fans the sight of O'Brien telling a 9 year old kid to FOCK AFF! is a treat. "},{"Title":"Hey Mister, do you want chips with that?","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Booker prize winner Roddy Doyle , who started life as a school teacher in a depressed neighbourhood in Dublin, the capital of Ireland, offers us a vivid yet humorous slice of life in Dublin at a pivotal time in contemporary Irish history. He tells this story from the perspective of down trodden families living in a depressed yet resilient neighbourhood. What is truly brilliant about this film is not just the hilarious storyline or the magical performances but how it captures the moment when Ireland as a nation got back on its feet and began to embrace Europe and world with renewed confidence. The story is set during the monumental moments of the European Football Championships of 1988, EURO'88 , when the Irish soccer team surprised Europe, and not least the Irish, with their success. It has been said that this event and the continued success of the Irish soccer team in Italia 90 sparked a renewed confidence within Ireland which greatly contributed to the success of the Irish economy in recent years, now known as the Celtic Tiger. The Barrytown trilogy written by Doyle has given us 3 memorable film adaptations in 'The Commitments'; 'The Snapper' and now this the final episode 'The Van'. Roddy Doyle went on to win the Booker prize for 'Paddy Clarke , ha, ha, ha' and is one of the foremost novelists active in Ireland today. His comedy and dialogue use the often thick Dublin working class dialect, which add to the lyrical nature of the scenes. Most of the characters are in turmoil due to their circumstances and the comedy lies in their posturing with each other in a dead-pan, black comedy.  "},{"Title":"Another fun Irish movie","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love movies set in Ireland and Colm Meaney is great. This is a fun movie, with humor and an interesting angle on life in Ireland. Colm was in another movie made from this author's work, The Snapper, and that was a howler. This movie is a must for fan's of Irish movies. "},{"Title":"A less than totally satisfactory conclusion to the Barrytown trilogy","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After the feel-good THE COMMITMENTS and the real-life THE SNAPPER, the third film in Roddy Doyle's Barrytown trilogy is a shade disappointing.  THE VAN isn't a bad film by any means; it's just that it should and could have been better.The screenplay is by Roddy Doyle, which makes it strange that the Rabbitte family has been so radically restructured.  Jimmy becomes Larry, Jimmy Jr and the (marvellously funny) twins have gone, Sharon - the unmarried teenage mother of THE SNAPPER - has become Diane.  A large measure of the fun of the bustling Rabbitte family life goes with them.  Ireland, it seems, is no longer a land of large families in small houses.  The same shrinkage seems to have happened to Jimmy's(no, Larry's)circle of friends.Presumably this has been done to avoid distracting from the core of the story - male friendship, female growth, living with unemployment.  Oh, and football.  Easily the best parts of the film, though, are those given over to the details of getting and running a dodgy chipper van.  The end is handled oddly, though.  What comes over in the book as a vindication of friendship over money appears in the film to be no more than a piece of drunken vandalism.But something has been lost - richness, detail - in this stripping down of the story.  Budgetary constraints, perhaps?See THE COMMITMENTS for fun, see THE SNAPPER for its gutsy storytelling. Only see THE VAN if you really want to know what happened next. "},{"Title":"Van vandalized","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Van is one of very few novels that have made me laugh out loud, on numerous occasions, whilst reading it. Thus, I feared the movie couldn't possibly live up to the book and I was right. The characters appear nowhere near as appealing as they do in the book -even the lead characters name has changed from Jimmy to Larry. In fact the Rabbite family has been drastically culled. The dialect can be difficult to catch at times (my wife mistook World Peace for Wolf's p**s during one pun). The Living Dead appear from nowhere and........no, I'm not doing any more comparisons.If you want a good laugh read the book.  "},{"Title":"Stereotypical Irish humbug film","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As an Irish person I couldn't help but cringe a little whilst watching this film, much as I enjoyed it. Its seems to be the same ''poor us,we've nothing, down on our luck'' story that seems to be the running theme through a zillion other Irish films & in particular, Roddy Doyle stories. We've seen it all before.The film has some quite funny moments, and the stereotypical Irishman, Colm Meaney does his usual business but the storyline is quite weak and simplistic really. I don't think I came away from the film any wiser than before.I think its time Irish film making upgraded with other countries and maybe feature something like casino's, beaches, hot girls, edge of the seat mob thriller instead of war, famine,unemployment, tradgedies, gypseys, priests, and in this case two idiots opening a chip van. "},{"Title":"They have red hair and they like a drink !","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although I must say at the outset that I enjoyed The Van and would watch it again, it is strangely uninspiring when compared to other films in its genre.  Indeed, this genre of all-too-real, Irish grit and spit, may, in The Van be seeing a backlash or a counterpunch.  The cliche of happy but poor Oirish Paddies (with red hair and they'll take a pint of Guinness) is not so much indulged in this time but is rather exposed and exploited.  Larry and his friends find themselves with a grimy filthy chip van and a chance for grimy filthy happiness in a grimy filthy world.How a shiny happy person would stomach this film I don't know. It is by turns delightful and soul-eroding. Unlike the Commitments there are no real moments of glory (Packy Bonner saving that penalty being the exception). Like the Commitments, we are left with a brave sense of optimism rather than a happy ending.I'd like an Irish perspective on this film.  It won't change the world.  It won't change the way we view Ireland.  The Irish are still portrayed as the blacks of Europe.  It may stop me from buying fish and chips from a van though.    "}{"Title":"A little disappointing","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this production a little disappointing since I had before seen The Commitments and The Snapper. Those are two brilliant movies with Colm Meaney (as you all probably know), but this one failed to reach my expectations. Colm Meaney is as always very good and I liked Donal O'Kelly (Bimbo) as well. They were both very good, but the script was thin. Basically they seemed to work 24/7 in a little van selling Irish food. Anyway this was an alright film I thought. Quite funny but with a mediocre ending. If you have seen the other two, you should see this one as well, but otherwise I wouldn't bother. "},{"Title":"Charming concept in search of real characters","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The characters drink, bicker, whine, drink more, try to get their act together, bicker, whine, drink, whine...The writers could have used someone to ask them some tough questions. Why are these characters friends? What are you trying to say about these people? If the answer is for some people, hard work will never pay off, then pray tell us, why not? Does it have something to do with being Irish? If so, what? If not, then what? The friendship between the protagonists is not adequately developed, and when the friendship hits rough times it is hard to care. They didn't seem to like each other very much to begin with. I began not to like them. I didn't see them as tormented, confused or angry, just disagreeable.Although I don't demand that all films about the Irish have a gentle Bill Forsyth touch, a little of his character development and motivation would have helped here. The concept is charming, why are the characters so harsh and helpless? "}]