[{"Title":"Perfect.","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For starters, it would be fair to say that I have seen this movie at least ten times. I was never bored... In fact, the magical atmosphere of the movie makes it beautiful to watch, and makes you enjoy every minute of it, even with the story aside. The cast is excellent, and the way that the actors 'ignore' the camera really makes you believe the story. The story has many layers, all of them viewed from an aspect of a dying man, packed with emotion, all masks down. The handover of Hong Kong and a love story, with all the cultural differences and barriers, is captured from a very close range. It's done almost like a documentary and strongly effects any spectator. The characters are complete, the story also, and everything else in the movie (from the photography and the music to the actual footage of HK and its people) only makes it more powerful. A beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Crafted like a well written book","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the first time I watched a movie and thought that it had all the perfect subtleties and symbolism of a book. The characters were both real and yet surreal enough that you can see that every character interaction was both meant to represent individual struggles and the struggles of whole cultures. Like literature... sometimes you must learn to read between the lines to appreciate what the author/creator of the book/movie is trying to say. No this isn't just the type of movie you just sit there and watch and expect to do all the work. If you want low-maintenance movies then look elsewhere. Just like not all books are for light reading which just have gratuitous violence and smut... not all movies are made for the sole purpose of entertaining the viewer with the same type of stuff. Look at the name of the movie! It starts there. So many things are going on at once but I did not find it difficult at all to feel the emotions that were intended. So much suppressed emotions... very much like the people of Hong Kong worried about suppression of their freedoms. Each shot of the movie included something symbolic. I think that no matter how many times I watch it I will see one more thing that was meant to be said. Social, political, and individual... I truly admired this movie and the captivating web it has weaved. "},{"Title":"Much better than many people say.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why, but people on imdb and elsewhere have been very critical of this film. Personally, as someone living in Hong Kong, I think it is both a well made and important film. At the end, the analogy of Gong Li's character starting again, as Hong Kong is starting again, worked well. I think perhaps the only drawback is Maggie Cheung's character, as it seems a little pointless. However, I like nearly everything Jeremy Irons is in - he is really one of the world's best actors. His characters are always people that I can somehow empathise with - they're always very believable and he really carries the film's themes. The idea of setting the film in the six months leading up to Hong Kong's July 1, 1997 handover works well. As Irons' character dies, so does British sovereignty - the Union Jack goes down, the last Governor cries, Gong Li shakes off her long-time sugar daddy. It's a captivating and well-told story of which the Director should be proud, although I read an interview with him a while ago, and he didn't want to talk about the film, since it's upset some people in Hong Kong, I think. This film is certainly better than most rubbish that's made in Hong Kong. I urge you to find a copy and see it. "},{"Title":"Mosaic mood piece","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know if Wayne Wang is into photography or painting as a hobby, but just like his last two films, SMOKE and BLUE IN THE FACE, this movie reminded me of a mosaic or a photo album.  I can see how some people had problems with it, since it's not a plot-driven film, but rather one of mood and atmosphere.  I was moved by the images I saw, not just of the city and the changes it went through, but also of the actors.  Irons is so often celebrated for the way that he uses his voice (justly, I might add) that you forget how well he's able to act with his face, and he does a terrific job here, communicating his sadness, his will to live even as disease ravages him, his agony over his unrequited love for Gong Li, and his curiosity and attraction to Maggie Cheung.I haven't seen much of Cheung that I remember, but I've seen a few of Li's films.  Both of them are excellent, Li especially in a role that's a lot more complicated than it might first appear.  You really do feel that deep down, if circumstances allowed, she'd love Irons back.  Cheung's role is mostly a symbolic one, but she handles it well.  Not an easy film to watch, but moving. "},{"Title":"love in an achanging world","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The world is changing around the characters in 'Chinese Box'. The screen time focuses on the six months between the New Year 1997 and the end of the British rule in Hong Kong. It's also the time that is left for John, the principal character of the film, a freelance journalist trying to store on film and in words the transition and dying of leukemia. It is the time when not only the world is changing in an unknown direction, but also when John may or may not find the fulfilling of his great love to Vivian, a beautiful Chinese bartender with a dubious past, herself in love with a third, Chinese man.The story is a combination between culture clash movies intertwined with love stories a la 'Shogun' with love stories in the shade of a crumbling world as in 'Casablanca'. It is to the credit of the director that despite a little too simplistic and explicit romantic intrigue he succeeds to bring to screen and combine a little of the charm of both genres in the right dosage. One may wonder where did Wayne Wang's career go lately and why he rather picked to do trashy films as 'Maid in Manhattan'.The strength of the film and what makes it survive well the decade since its realization resides however in the rendition of the city, of its infinite colors and smells, of the crowd and the noise, of its hopes, fears and dreams in the wake of the falling under Communist rule. Jeremy Irons is perfect as he will ever be, Li Gong is an enigmatic Chinese Hepburn, and Ruben Blades and Maggie Chang fill in two memorable supporting roles and another lateral story that fits well in the mosaic. 'Chinese Box' catches both a moment to remember in history and a beautiful love story to remember as well, on the background of a world in transition to an unknown destination. "},{"Title":"An  exceptional film","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was unprepared for the wonderful experience this film affords. The  metaphor is striking and acceptable. Wang catches the bittersweet essence of the changeover, both at the  specific and the generic level.Li, Irons, and Cheung are superb. The movie is a cornucopia of visual delights. In fact, it probably requires repeat viewing to fully absorb the totality of its impact.Thank you, Mr.Wang, for a truly unusual piece of work.sasmd2@pol.net "},{"Title":"One of the most hauntingly beautiful films ever made !","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is, without a doubt, one of the most hauntingly beautiful works of cinematography ever made. The story is sublime - yet powerful. This is one of the only films I have ever viewed that left me in tears... the emotional impact was immense.The beautiful cinematographic experience this film imparted is something that I will never forget. The characters were incredibly real, and like all humans - imperfect. The final scenes that this movie builds up to are nothing less than genius - I would say that the director of this film has been able to pull off a near perfect piece of storytelling. Even if this movie is (as another reviewer states) historically and culturally inaccurate, the fact remains that the story it tells contains incredible truths about human nature. This is, in my opinion, one of the best statements on the human condition that has ever been encoded in film. In short, this movie was a bitter-sweet nostalgic vision of the handover of Hong Kong - containing one of the most humanly accurate stories ever put to film. "},{"Title":"A Grand Performance","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this film three times now and it just seems to get better. Gong Li and Jeremy Irons were fabulous along with Maggie Cheung who played a fascinating character. The street scenes I thought really enhanced the ambience of the film and plot. Congrats to all who were involved in this film.      "},{"Title":"Heartbreakingly beautiful, moving, stunning","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what's wrong with you people, or where stupid Hong Kong nationalism comes into this.  I see movies that show lousy parts of Boston, and I don't go whining about it on web sites.  The story is extremely moving, Hong Kong seemed fascinating,  there was amazing imagery and chemistry between Irons and Li.  I was blown away both times I saw it.  I highly recommend Chinese Box.  "},{"Title":"Left me feeling very Content","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this drama and romance movie 'Chinese Box' immensely and was Intrigued by the characters.I can't really say what attracted me to this movie so much, but hope you enjoy.The movie was interesting in capturing a time period that was hugely felt mostly in a region we are unfamiliar with. (most people)OK, the women were very nice looking. This would be a must watch for any lover of film, the director really made you get in touch with reality. Chinese Box is a film that I loved to watch and hope you like it too "}{"Title":"photoreporter loves Hong Kong local but political freedom and inner freedom clash while he discovers something new about himself","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is indeed a Chinese box containing some separate stories nested within the movie's frame there's Vivian's story, there's Jean's story, and there's of course John's dramatic one, but then there's also the story of the Hong Kong island and its inhabitants and how they take the 1997 political change. I haven't seen very many Jeremy Irons films and in the ones I've seen him he plays supporting roles, but I particularly enjoyed his part in this film, especially because it seems an atypical one for him. John's friend Jim is fun to watch (see the bolero scene)although he is predictable all through. The two girls are both strong characters, even if their stories are quite different (or are they?)and I was relieved to see that their womanly instincts prevailed when it came to understanding John. All in all, The Chinese Box left me a very good first impression and I would recommend it to all Jeremy Irons fans. "},{"Title":"Impressionistic portrait","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this impressionistic portrait of a man who is always searching and documenting, and who triggers the same impulse in the two very different women he pursues.The camera loves its four main characters -- stunning Gong Li, a mellowing Jeremy Irons, Maggie Cheung (an interesting actress I'd never seen previously), and in-your-face Hong Kong during its 1997 handover.We follow the pursuits of John, who is destined to die within six months from leukemia, as he makes a last-ditch effort to win over Vivian, who wastes herself on a wealthy businessman too ashamed of her to marry her. At the same time, he attempts to understand the life of Jean, an incest survivor who in the course of John's intervention gradually stops hiding a large facial scar.Many questions are left unanswered by the time John's camera trails off. This is part of what I like about the film. Where has John come from and what is the trauma that he has fled? Why does Vivian have to act like someone she is not just to be able to kiss John? Why does John's mouth avoid Vivian's when he's finally about to embrace her...as if their kiss is ultimately taboo? The movie won't answer our questions but challenges us to just keep on pondering them. It leaves a pleasant if not indelible impression. Like Hong Kong's transition, only time will tell what it has meant. "},{"Title":"Perfect metaphor","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw Chinese Box, it was because I was a fan of Irons and Gong Li and the fact they were in the same film made it irresistible. Coincidentally I'm a world events hound and was well informed about the relationship between and history of Hong Kong and China, though that didn't factor into my seeing the film as I was unaware of its story. The actors were enough to attract me.But oh my, I was more than stunned after seeing it! This worked on so many levels I'm amazed it didn't get more notice. Ah, well, that's what happens to truly substantial films far too often; they are shoved aside (in the US at least) by the flashy hyped stuff. "},{"Title":"One of the best movie IMHO","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jeremy Iron, Ruben, Maggie are fantastic in the movie. Gong Li worked hard at it. She's got the look but I have to hold my breath every time she tries to act... It's quite exhausting to watch her act in this role. Hope it's just me.But the story writing fits perfectly with the title China Box. You have to have enough background knowledge and sensibility to appreciate it. The movie never falls into the cliché of east-meets-the-west. Instead, it uses the historical sea-change in Hong Kong as the back drop, as the grand orchestra accompanying the extraordinary solo of the age old story of love, a man and a woman. Nothing is obvious, and nothing gives away in the middle and the tension keeps building till the very last moment. I first saw the movie when it came out in theater. But 10 years later I saw it again on tape, it blew me away like no other. I'd give it a 10 if not for the rather limited acting skill from Gong Li. There's got to be someone else out there among the 1.3 billion who can really act. Maggie can act but she certainly falls short in her natural beauty for this role, in comparison to Gong Li. One other thing I thought was bit of a drag is Maggie's almost perfect English. I thought a character from the very bottom of Hong Kong society with limited education probably would be more convincing if she has more local accent. That's my past experience with folks from Hong Kong. Only those from the privileged the class in Hong Kong would speak like her in the movie... I am so disappointed by the featured review on IMDb here. Because in the past this web site has consistently picked a more sensible review for other movies I ran into. I felt rather compelled to write something to clear the bad rap of this great movie, as much as I can. For those who cares, Maggie Cheung was in another great movie In the Mood for Love (2000). But that movie was more limited in scope and more nuanced in its presentation, a more oriental romance. This movie clearly more European is breadth and depth in its attempt. Some might find the political overtone - a rather negative focus on the 1997 handover (suicide, etc), a bit predictable and cliché. But in this particular movie it does set the mood for the over all theme of the movie - after all, this is a rather a sad romance. No happy endings for any one. Only human spirit triumph. For that, I thought the movie title is a bit off actually. IMHO, China Box is only a clever device that is seemingly simple but capable of endless intrigue and twist. That title would be much more fit for a thriller. This one I thought is more about the ultimate triumph of the unyielding human spirit for truth, for real meaning, and for love as the word originally meant, overcoming all odds, even the limitation of one's unavoidable mortality.It's a master piece. "},{"Title":"An Enigma","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Multi-layered stories can be very interesting films, provided that the viewer can actually understand everything. Unfortunately, Wayne Wang's Chinese Box does not make clear all of the pieces of this film.The film centers around John (Jeremy Irons), a dying British journalist, at the time of the British turnover of Hong Kong to the Chinese. He's in love with Vivian (Gong Li), a Hong Kong resident, who in turn is in love with a powerful businessman. Then there is also Jean (Maggie Cheung), a woman who captures John's interest, and is willing to give him an interview for a price. But is she telling the truth? Chinese Box is an enigma, and one could argue that that is the point. But unlike other movies where remaining elusive to the viewer is the goal (like Donnie Darko), Chinese Box eventually grows boring.The acting is solid. Jeremy Irons is terrific as John. We want him to make it with Vivian because we like him so much. Irons does not go for the tear ducts, nor does he spend the time he has left moping around or spouting philosophical nonsense. John knows he doesn't have much time left, and he spends it doing the two things he really wants win Vivian's heart back and figure out Jean. There is a reason why Gong Li is considered the Asian Meryl Streep. Li is a amazing actress, but unfortunately, like the film, she remains an enigma. She doesn't have much dialogue, but Li uses her face to express herself. Cheung is also interesting as the feisty Jean. She's actually the polar opposite of Vivian vocal, emotive, and independent. This is probably why John finds her so interesting.Director Wayne Wang made the hit film The Joy Luck Club based on the best-selling novel by Amy Tan, neither of which I have experienced. Whatever rights he did there are not present here. He keeps the characters at an arm's distance, which may be the point, but what we do understand, isn't especially interesting. There are some isolated scenes that work, but over all it's a pretty dull film. The best parts are when we get a peek into the culture of Hong Kong, or what we can gather of it.This isn't an especially interesting film, and not really worth it. "},{"Title":"Interesting study...","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jeremy Irons portrays a terminal man in Hong Kong at the period when British rule on that province is terminated.There are assorted disparate characters and plot points reflected in the frenetic city itself.Gong Li as Vivian portrays a woman from North China (wrong side of the tracks) who cannot marry a Hong Kong businessman due to her lower station. She alternately flirts with Irons,even as she herself works part time as an escort,apparently a role she likes for its escapism.Maggie Cheung as Jean portrays a displaced street-walker,with a marring scar on her face. Irons takes an interest in filming her and the disjointed scenes of the Hong Kong streets. The visceral sense of Hong Kong and its people is captured brilliantly. The constant camera movement reflects uncertainty and unpredictability.Ruben Blades as Irons temporary house-mate also adds to the storytelling aspect. His ballads softly underline Irons' despair,and the unrest of Hong Kong itself.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Maggie Cheung's coming of Age","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chinese Box was without a doubt, one of the most interesting films I've seen for quite a while. That said, it's not for everyone, and it's the kind of film that I am always surprised to see in a cinema release, because I can see little or no mainstream market for it. Regardless of this the film is worth seeing even if only for the extraordinary performance of Maggie Cheung. Jeremy Irons, as usual, plays Jeremy Irons and Gong Li, from whom we were expecting a virtuoso performance, seems to fade in and out of the background. She does have a few shining moments, but... perhaps it's the role she's been given. Maggie plays a young woman with an unexplained facial scar and a tragic past (which I won't detail,) and she does so with an air of charm and vulnerability, and even leaves us with an impression of genuine innocence. It's hard not to like Maggie, and the film leaves the viewer wanting more. Speilberg has reputedly cast her in Memoirs of a Geisha - in production in 2000. Watch out for HK film veteran Michael Hui (The Private Eyes, Teppanyaki etc.) as the man unable/unwilling to marry Gong Li because of her past. "},{"Title":"The Many Hidden Doors of Asia","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Submission would be a good first word for the description of Wayne Wang's Chinese Box.John(Jeremy Irons),is a British photojournalist who lives and works in Hong Kong, and who is suffering from unrequited love for Vivian(Gong Li). With the approaching political changeover, John is feeling a deep sense of melancholy that is deepened when his doctor gives him some bad news about him having leukemia. The bulk of the film follows him as he makes one last, desperate play for Vivian. However, his attempt to win her over is doomed to fail, not only by the changing political tides, but by a series of dark secrets that emerge from both of their pasts. A subplot of greater interest centers on John's endeavor to record the life story of Jean(Maggie Cheung), a street hustler with a burned face. This pretty much sums up the plot.First of all let me say it is interesting too see Wangs view on the situation with China and Britain and their all time taboo Hong Kong. A lot of cities have been illuminated for freedom, (which looks now almost like a new trend, if you look at the former Soviets states.) Wang doesn't seem to really pick a side, weather it is for Britain or China, which makes it pleasant to watch.The issue here is the love story, which is the biggest barricade here. Although The actors are good, the plot just doesn't seem to be going somewhere. Some people might view this as a flaw, but it really is just a point of view, not so really much TELLING than SHOWING a story. there is a difference.Irons seems to be in his element (after M.Butterfly) and makes a good stand, in keeping up where the story falls down. Gong Li also makes a good impression, but she doesn't seem to have the same intensity as her processors in films like Farewell my Concubine or In the Mood for Love. Being the mistress of a rather pathetic Chinese salary man (I know that the term is Japanese but this is the best way to subscribe him). Not highly but of some level, and she fits nicely around Irons.Maggie Cheung, and her character is the one who is standing out in both story as well as in acting. Somehow it doesn't really fit in here, therefore it was a smart move of Wang to let it be a sidestory.Remarkable is the music by Greame Revell, who delivers a brilliant Chinese Score for this film. You can hear that he tried to find the things that made China what it is, and if you listen to the music then it doesn't sound like china, it IS china, if you understand what I am getting at (Revell isn't imitating, but he is recomposing). Nice sound design, and the song Reuben Blades sings when Irons leaves the hospital is just wonderful, with very emotional lyrics.The cinematography is at some points interesting but not of a high art. Wangs direction isn't brilliant, but it holds up. WHat makes this movie so good then. The feeling, and the lead actor Jeremy Irons. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Enjoyable","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this film as a case study into the depths of man's self examination paralleled with the struggle of a country doing the same.I came away with a better understanding of this country's heady excitement and worries as well as a connection to Jeremy Irons character watching and making a difficult transition and acceptance of responsibilities for both. Great film,superb acting. "},{"Title":"Some comments about Hong Kong","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Much has already been said about the film itself. Here are some comments regarding the portrayal of Hong Kong. An early comment was saying that this film makes Hong Kong look dirty and cramped.Well, having lived in Hong Kong (in several different areas) I have to say that what the film shows is reality. I was paying about US$1,000 per month for a small room about 10 x 15 feet in Hong Kong (Tin Hau area) in 1996. It was not even a really nice place. Hong Kong is very expensive to live in.It is also a very dirty and polluted place compared to cities in the West. The director of the film was not making this up.By reading this you may think I hated it there, well it rates as one of  my favorite cities in the world. It has a lot of charm.By the way, the movie isn't bad and worth a look. "}{"Title":"Untrustworthy Stories","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A imperfect film to my tastes, but definitely worth watching for two elements, the French connection and the enfolding of stories.In the sixties, we were blessed with a flood of highly person films, some of which embodied a sense of meaningless angst, conveyed in a rough, expressionistic style. French cinema is moribund now, but the tradition has been revived by Hong Kong art films. This film stays still by moving, focuses on characters by highlighting the city.Here, the effort is focused on a modern obsession, the trustworthiness of the narrative. So we have a film about stories and storytelling. Vivian's story haunts her; she has helped build a story for Chang which brings him success but her ruin (because of her old story).Irons plays a man paid to tell the story on Hong Kong, who realizes the current story is empty and the new story (by the great inventors of history, the communists) will differ only superficially.OOPS! Spoiler warning. Stop now if concerned.He is given a story about his death (is it true?). He tracks down Jean who tells two stories. Is the first true? Then we get the story about her jilting and attempted suicide. This is brought into question as well. And we never get the story we wonder about, how her scar came to be.Vivian spins an alternate identity as a whore, in order to pierce the many-yeared barrier between her and Irons. You really should see this film together with French Lieutenant's Woman. In both cases, a fiction reveals truth, in both, Irons is the hapless victim. That is lush, this is bare. That references French Impressionism, this English Colonialism (think about the confluence) but the dynamic is the same, as is the notion of enfolded time and relative truth.Worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Interesting but not compelling","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I understand what they were going for with this, but somehow it failed to move me very much.  The artfulness is enjoyable, but for some reason, perhaps the acting or the perennially bouncing camera, I never was released into flowing with the movie.  Instead, it felt like acting, and thus I couldn't help but feel a manipulated instead of moved.It's a nice try, however.  Irons is fun to watch, if not as well done as in others.  Gong Li is more enjoyable on her deeper roles (such as Temptress Moon and Raise the Red Lantern), as opposed to the shallow one turned in here, due to playing a shallow character (as with Shanghai Triad), or one which does not seem to break out into the foreground, perhaps compounded by being clumsily mashed into an English-speaking role.  She didn't look comfortable the entire film.  No one did, ever.  Perhaps that itself is a facet of Hong Kong, and an effect that I failed to catch.Then again, truly moving art films are hard to make.  While it didn't score anywhere near off the charts with me, like the far more graceful Temptress Moon, it was still much enjoyed over the usual local (Hollywood) fare. "},{"Title":"Very underrated film that captures the essence of Hong Kong","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Set in Hong Kong at the eve of the handover, Jeremy Irons stars as an expat freelance journalist in love with an unattainable local woman. A piece of unsettling news prompts him to distance himself from her, making the most of his last days in the territory.The acting by both leads was superb. As another review has noted the way it was shot made it feel like a documentary, with Jeremy Irons narrating over several scene transitions and pouring out his confessions and regrets.The whole experience feels honest and captures the mood of Hong Kong in the 90s perfectly. Chinese Box is a fitting a tribute to the city itself, the ever bustling backdrop to a genuine love story.8/10 "},{"Title":"Simplistic movie, but worth watching","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The players in this film, Ironsd, Li and Cheung, all have symbolic roles.Gong Li represents Hong Kong. She is a whore that every man wants.As someone even says in the film; Hong Kong is a whore and now it has a new pimp.Irons represents, of course, Britain, and doesn't have long left, symbolized by his having cancer. Irons tries to win over Li, but to no avail. The handover is happening and nothing can stop it.Maggie Cheung (in a great and convincing performance) is the jilted lover, the part of Hong Kong that has been tricked by Britain's promises of democracy and a western way of life.When Maggie meets her former lover, the Brit doesn't even remember her... it is a poignant and believable moment.Irons is a bit flat but Gong Li is a simmering sex goddess. Perfect for her allegorical role. "},{"Title":"a different kind of love story","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've been to Hong Kong twice and the way it is portrayed in this film is dead on. the hustle and bustle, street hawkers, apartment interiors, the faces, traffic volume are all there.this is definitely a love story with a twist. Jeremy Irons is a British actor so he lacks the pretentiousness of Americans and so can correctly portray the pathos needed for that of a man deeply in love with a woman who is holding out for something better; until it is too late.Gong Li is the quintessential barfly/escort trying to marry into a better social position, but who *finally* realizes it is not to be and then turns to the man who does want to marry her only to discover he is so jaded (no pun intended) that he at first harshly spurns her. she even resorts to attempting to seduce him in her barmaid persona but of course that doesn't work either.Maggie Cheung was fantastic as the other woman in his life, a street person who likewise has a troubled past.this film has an exceptionally strong message about the trials of life and how we have to make the most of the successes and victories that do come our way. a must see for anyone intrigued by life in modern China. and anywhere in the world for that matter. "},{"Title":"I don't get It..","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Chinese Box is romantic drama set in the midst of 1997 when British left Hong Kong. It's a well acted, beautifully shot film that has a muddled script and lacks any focus. All the entertainment value came from the cast. Jeremy Irons, Gong Li and Maggie Cheung... A great British actor with two of the greatest Chinese actresses. If they can't make a film entertaining then the end of the world has come finally. The acting is really good and it basically carries the whole show. Watching Jeremy Irons on screen with Gong Li and Maggie Cheung is pure magic. The rest of the cast are largely forgettable except for Rubén Blades. He gives an entertaining performance as usual.What truly helps this film is the fantastic direction by the director Wayne Wang. He knows how to compose some interesting shots and offers us a very intimate look at Hong Kong. His direction greatly elevated the muddled and somewhat incoherent script.The story was easy to understand in broad strokes. It's a classic love story about two people who can't be together and so on. But whenever it delved into the subplots and minor details, I was mostly confused. Maggie Cheung's character was largely superficial and could have been cut out of film and the overall story would't suffer from it. In other words, it's huge mess with loads of ideas and subplots that are introduced and left half-baked. If Chinese Box was directed by David Lynch, then the faults of the script wouldn't matter. If this film was more surreal then it might have been great. But what we got is just a flawed film with excellent performances and good direction.Chinese Box is a hard film to recommend. If you are a huge fans of Jeremy Irons, Gong Li and Maggie Cheung like I am, then this is must see. But if you are more invested in good storytelling then I can't really recommend it on that level. If you just want to experience Hong Kong or just to watch an atmospheric film about people, then it's a decent film. Just don't expect anything groundbreaking. "},{"Title":"not for the lazy in mind","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  the movie was neither boring or disgusting. it is a lesser-known gem. people who are motivated in their movie purchases by the attractiveness of the actress or how she looked in what pair of jeans aside. the drama was realistic, the characters were believable, honorable and complex. the soundtrack and sets were splendid too. nobody is claiming it is the best thing ever done, but it is worth two hours. it is thought-provoking if a bit inconclusive (as life is) and should not be written off as trash. "},{"Title":"Interesting insight of the oriental woman.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the Chinese Box and found this movie rather interesting and enjoyable, but what I really think is worth mentioning is Vivan's (Gong Li) attitude, so typical of an eastern woman.  Splendid performance!  This insight of the eastern woman is rare in a western movie and deserves due note. "},{"Title":"I saw it. Not really my kind of film. Interesting but very slow.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jeremy Irons is the main reason for seeing this movie, the title Chinese Box implying that this story has many layers and hidden meanings, as does a Chinese Box. Irons is a journalist in Hong Kong, New years' eve of 1997, when the British rule and occupation are to begin it phase out. He loves a Chinese woman who, because of her trade cannot marry him, nor the Chinese man who loves her. I was immediately put off by the background music, although it may have been faithful to Hong Kong. Still, I thought it was irritating mostly. I was also put off by the preponderance of hand-held camera shots, and not even steadycam!  Plus, the many scenes shot on a small digital camera. True, all that contributed to the 'mood', but I guess I was just not 'in the mood'!! As I told my wife, This is probably a better movie than I was able to enjoy.The best part of the film, to me, was the actual singing of Reubin Blades, along with his guitar self-accompaniment.  I rate it 6 of 10 and worth a view for anyone who likes slow-moving, complexly developed relationships.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed with Irons.  Li Gong needs more work in American Films","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very short, very sweet  I was disappointed.If you have read my reviews about Mr. Irons, you can understand why I felt that his character was a bit weak.  For a person who watches a film at least 3 times in one sitting (for technical, dialogue and story evaluation), I felt that I was not fulfilled with the message of this film.  I saw Li Gong in Raise the Red Lantern and she was wonderful.  In this film, she had very little dialogue, probably because her English is limited.  I believe she should get more American roles in order to develop her second language. I felt that her character was weak also.  The only person that had any flavor or depth, was the woman who portrayed Jean, the woman with the scar.  I felt that her character was the best and was very colorful.  I am sorry that the main characters had very little to offer.  I also like Ruben Blades, but I felt he was in the wrong movie.  You know, displaced.  "}{"Title":"Has points of interest but story meanders","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember how excited I was when I first viewed The Year of Living Dangerously and watching the main characters in Indonesia just before the Vietnam War broke out. This is nowhere near that but I did come away thinking that this is a very personal film about the change in Hong Kong. Story does take place in Hong Kong during the last 6 months of British colonialism and the central character is John (Jeremy Irons) who is a writer and roams the city with his video camera capturing different things that go on but he is madly in love with Vivian (Gong Li) who owns a bar but has a sordid past that looms over them. John has been feeling ill and gets checked out and learns that he has leukemia and has 3 to 6 months to live.*****SPOILER ALERT*****John continues to wander the streets and he meets Jean (Maggie Cheung) who has a bad scar on her face and she sells knick knacks on the street and John becomes fascinated by her. As time dwindles down John must face the fact that changes are inevitable and the people of Hong Kong will go on without him.This film is directed by Wayne Wang who has made a good career out of making films about Asians and the way they live despite cultural differences. But while I think there are some interesting things in this film it's clearly not one of Wang's best. Film tries very hard to be thought provoking in it's overall message with the characters but it just seems to come off as ponderous. As talented as Iron's and Li are they seem a bit uninspired and the rare bursts of energy just lack any conviction. The most interesting character in the film is Jean played by Cheung and she easily steals every scene she's in and her character shows obvious layers of pain that she hides well despite the scar on her face. Cheung is a Hong Kong action star but she shows she can easily handle drama and I hope someone writes her a good script to be in. The story meanders and doesn't really have any focus in it's message and even though Wang is a good director it just comes across as lacking emotional depth.  "},{"Title":"Cunning and Sophisticated","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie, but I thought it was a little confusing in some parts. What I liked was the night time scene of the city of Hong Kong!  As a journalist, John has seen and heard a lot of really wild and crazy things, but also interesting!  There were a few parts I hated watching, which makes me never want to watch this film again (that's why I rated this 7), but apart from that, I liked this movie!   "},{"Title":"Chinese BORING","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I consider myself a fan of Wayne Wang's spontaneous-style work.  With that said, I was really looking forward to his latest with Jeremy Irons & Maggie Cheung.  What a disappointment. This was a typical star-crossed lovers set during an important historical event that has been done before and has been done better. None of the characters are alluring except Maggie and she totally disappears by the movie's end. Wang is known for character-rich stories. What happened here? Chinese Box, like Chinese food, hardly satisfied me making search elsewhere for something with content. "},{"Title":"It's OK","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was OK, and does give an interesting depiction of Hong Kong. Whether the depiction is accurate is another thing.Jeremy Irons I like, but Gong Li?  I just don't know what all the fuss is about her, except that she is very beautiful, I didn't find her acting anything special in this movie anyway.The strange thing I don't understand is why does Gong Li hire the 2 prostitutes to spend the night with Jeremy Irons, then later on in the film have sex with him?  If her love is unrequitted, one would think the 2 prostitutes would be more than enough.  The love scene between Gong Li and Jeremy Irons was done very tastefully, with no nudity even, though it is implied that they do it.  "},{"Title":"Fine Actors wasted in a dull, boring film.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I purchased Chinese Box because of my new found fascination with Gong Li. She is a beautiful actress with a mysterious way about her that makes her truly fascinating.  However, a film as convoluted as Chinese Box can put a death nail in someones career. The movie is about a British Journalist played by Jeremy Irons who is reflecting on the past as he is witnessing the fate of Hong Kong being taken over by China with the British Government departing. As he drolls on in voiceover about this, he also reflects on his relationship and undying love for Gong Li. There is also a side story (with no closure) about a young, scarred Chinese woman who is hiding a deep painful secret. The highlight of this film is Ruben Blades who turns in a great performance. He also sings, and being an accomplished singer, he does a great job. I wish the movie would have been about his character, it was the only interesting one in the movie. The only other highlight was how smashing Gong Li looked in a jet black t-shirt and jeans. The director of this movie, Wayne Wang, did a superior, practically perfect movie called Smoke which I think is brilliant. This outing however was as disgusting as looking at the gutted fish in the Hong Kong marketplace.  "},{"Title":"Painfully stilted.","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is akin to watching the ponderous antics of amateur actors who think they are doing intellectual stuff just because they are pausing in all the right places as they struggle through the bare script down at the local y. Poor showing Wang, his previous sucess at making intelligent films hinges on not being so self aware...and Jeremy Irons has done this before just better and in more substantial movies. It is almost as though the non event of the actual handover stunted the artistic juices when they were creating the virtual handover - if that is the case I would prefer to not see art imitate life quite so closely...it just leaves me bored and in drastic need of reinspiration from other sources. Wang himself must have needed to eat a bowl of tea after this impotent showing. "},{"Title":"Disengaged","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't remember a movie in which I found the lead characters less engaging than I found Gong Li and Jeremy Irons in this film. Li has almost nothing to say and I was perplexed as to what Irons (himself a rather mopish and unappealing person in this film) would see in her. The minor characters played by Maggie Cheung and Ruben Blades seemed much more human and interesting. As for the story - I sat there for the first half of the movie wondering when the plot was going to begin. I'd have had as much fun if I'd gone to a stranger's house and watched 2 hours of video footage of his holiday in Hong Kong. (This was the street where I bought my t-shirt, Here's a shot of the traffic in the street etc -you get my drift) In a word -boring. "},{"Title":"Mr. Wang depreciates Hong Kong","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story of Chinese Box happens within the six months before the reunification of Hong Kong to China. The whole movie was filmed in the city of Hong Kong which is known as The Pearl of the Orient, but Mr. Wang, what have you shown our beautiful Hong Kong to the viewers? ....dirty streets, noise pollution everywhere, tiny, ugly and crowded flats, people with ugly faces and with disgusting behaviours, etc. People who watched this movie and who have never visited Hong Kong before would get a very very very wrong impression that Hong Kong is a mess. But in fact, this is absolutely incorrect and does not make sense at all. Tell me, why does the journalist (Jeremy Irons) who has worked in Hong Kong for 15 years need to rent a flat that is the worst and oldest kind that you can find in the dirtiest street here. These flats are just for people who got no job or drug addicts!  Moreover, Mr. Wang's chief objective to make this film, as a matter of fact, is to tell the viewers that China is bad and Hong Kong would be ruined in her hands. He symbolizes China's takeover of Hong Kong on 1st July, 1997 by showing us tanks and People's Liberation Army marching horribly into Hong Kong when the Chinese anthem is playing. Also, he shows us a university student who objects Chinese's takeover by sacrificing himself in fire  (actually, this happens many years ago and the student killed himself for other reasons). All these gives a very false impression on viewers' minds that Hong Kong must be good under British rule but be bad under Chinese rule. But these can all be answered by looking at Hong Kong today, nothing changes and we are as prosperous as before. Mr. Wang, what do you think?  "},{"Title":"I dont dislike it","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt that it's an incomplete story. Some of its scenes have a lot of potential to be better developed. And some of its metaphors are either too ambiguous to understand or too obvious to think much of.But I dont dislike it. They got great actors and actresses there. Maggie is my favorite one.  "},{"Title":"What's the point?","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I sat through this movie and found myself constantly expecting something to happen.  Imagine my surprise when nothing ever did! This movie is a waste of an excellent setting and an excellent actor (Jeremy Irons).  You would thing that with an intriguing setting like Hong Kong and a wonderful actor like Irons, SOME sort of decent story could have been put together.  However, the movie falls totally flat. It is pointless, boring, and a true disappointment. "}{"Title":"Implausible, stupid waste of good actors w. terrible script","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jeremy mistakenly thinks he's going to die, and he becomes obsessed with this Asian high-class call girl, and all this takes place with the Hong Kong switchover imminent in the background.  Clearly, someone thought that this shopworn premise alone was worthy of a movie, so why spend money on a script?  Jeremy Irons power and fire are trivialized in this complete time-waster. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movie in history","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chinese Box is the most disappointing movie I have ever watched. Everything is in a mess, the actors are not outstanding, even Gong Li just always stands there like a piece of wood..... and I wonder what happened to Hong Kong in Chinese Box. It is not the one I can remember, well actually, I have visited there 4 years ago. All in all, I can only give a 1 out of 10, very disappointing "}]