[{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dreaming of becoming a rock star and hanging out, Claude (Alison Folland) is just like any other fifteen year-old girl. Almost. As the school year nears an end, she finds her relationship with Ellen (Tara Subkoff) strained. And a new friend, Luke, enters her life.Ellen is suddenly caught up in her new boyfriend, (Cole Hauser). However, Claude doesn't feel the same way about guys. Claude is attracted to girls. To be specific, she's fallen in love with Ellen. And all that happens is Ellen gets closer and closer to Mark.When Ellen begins a downward spiral into drugs, alcohol, and late-night partying, Claude has to make a decision. Will she be there for Ellen when she needs her most? Or will she stop letting Ellen use her? To complicate things more, a new love interest enters Claude's life and another friend makes an exit.Claude is forced to weigh the importance of her relationship with Ellen against her conscience. In the end she has to do the right thing and deal with her best friend hating her. In a matter of days, Claude loses two friends, gains one, and also gains a love. And in the end there is no looking back.This film is the ideal indie movie. Subkoff and Folland shine along with the rest of the excellent cast. Superb writing and cinematography combined with a hip urban soundtrack make this a must see. "},{"Title":"What teens are really like","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alison Folland plays Claude with such understanding and moving intimacy, letting us in on all of Claude's feelings with such effortless grace that you wonder why the hell isn't this terrific woman isn't getting Gwyneth Paltrow's roles?  Maybe she's too damn good for them.  She makes her characters so real (she did the same with To Die For's Lydia) I could go on and on.  But there's more to this movie than Folland's masterfull take on it.The movie is about a 15-year-old girl named Claude in Hell's Kitchen.  She hangs out with Ellen (Tara Subkoff) and is in love with her.  These conflicted feelings usually accompany gay-teen-coming-of-age movies, but never before has it seemed so honest.  Claude makes friends with a gay neighbor named Luke (Pat Briggs from Psychotica) who helps her become more realized about her gay feelings.  She seems like every teen out there, gay or straight, dealing with their emotions and trying to make sense of everything.  She meets Lucy (Leisha Hailey of the Murmurs) who puts her emotions exactly where Claude can see them.Ellen is no help though.  She's even more screwed-up.  She confuses Claude by not minding a kiss every now and then, mean while dating a loser drug dealer, who eventually devides the two after the death of Luke.The most powerful scene of any movie I've seen in a long time takes place the first time Claude goes over to Lucy's house.  Claude (a Patti Smith fan) turns on her song Pissing in a River and is emotionally overwhelmed while a confused Lucy watches helplessly.  It's such a rare rock 'n roll moment of power that well represents a beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Slice of Life","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The setting is Hell's Kitchen, the time the 90s, the lead characters, some confused, angst-ridden teens.There's not much plot here, nor much character development. Just a brief walk on the wild side of big city life.Focusing on a sensually ambivalent girl and her off and on lovers and acquaintances, there are very good performances and atmospheric details to savor. Competently directed, with a rich rock track, these short vignettes explore a feminine teen scene rarely depicted in films.  Make no mistake, though, this journey is definitely not for everyone, and only those who have the energy, stamina and interest in examining tough urban life from a young feminine perspective, will be rewarded.  "},{"Title":"I'm still thinking about it","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  The writing was right on, fantastic.  This movie could have been very bad had it not been for the wonderful dialogue and the dynamics between the well crafted and developed characters.  The casting was superb.  Alison is soooo good.  And Leisha has the best hair!  The soundtrack is great, it included my favorite band, which was a surprise for me! I loved this movie's subtlness messages and how it's so open to interpretation.  For instance, when Ellen says I hate you. It's a great friendship movie and spoke powerfully to me as I've been in Claude's kind of position before.  I watched it twice in one day.    "},{"Title":"What a wonderful film...","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this film on IFC and was really impressed with how well done it was, the acting is really fantastic as well. This one was a sweet story and had real depth of the people we watched in the film. Bravo all around! "},{"Title":"It's not as good as everyone says it is.","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All Over Me is not a very good film. The acting is good, especially from Wilson Cruz and Leisha Hailey, but the script is badly written, nothing is resolved at the end, and Tara Subkoff's character is too much of a ditz.5/10 "},{"Title":"Wouldn't call it the perfect movie I've seen...","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to admit the actors were grand, it's just the story around the film didn't make any sense to me. Like if you look at the movie poster, you would think the two girls Claude and Ellen are a couple but it doesn't seem to be like that at all, it's more based on Ellen going out with a gang leader and taking too many drugs in order to still be with him.Although I just couldn't understand why the girls had a one night stand? Were they real into each other or was Ellen using her just because she was her best friend? Well either way, it seems Claude had moved on and got herself a hot chick called Lucy, who she met at the nightclub. I honestly thought that was the only I liked in this movie, their relationship!The rest to be honest wasn't that great to see as none of it just lacked interest to me! "},{"Title":"Real...","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie! It is so real, and people of all ages and sexual preferences can relate to this storyline and the characters. The characters are intense and dramatic but are fresh faces and are real, none of them are made up to be portrayed as perfect, gorgeous and although most of them especially Leisha Hailey are good looking, they are not made up to be that way, they are natural, and it is good to see. I think that teenagers especially those who are confused about their sexuality can appreciate a movie like this, because it is saying that they are not the only one out there who has these problems and it could be somewhat of a comfort. "},{"Title":"When reality threatens to be much more horrible than fiction","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" New York -1990s. Claude is a teenager of our time, daughter of a divorced mother who let her face the challenges of teenage alone. Not quite alone though, since her best friend Hellen is never very far. As different in temperament as they are in appearance, sturdy, self-effacing Claude and fragile, volatile Ellen have long been at the center of each other's universe. In fact, Claude loves Hellen but does not know quite yet how to express her homosexuality. Anyway, Hellen is not gay. But with school almost over and summer in the air, Claude and Ellen have begun to discover more of the world outside Claude's room. Claude has met people like Jesse, Luke and Lucy, who seem to understand her much better than Ellen does. Meanwhile, Ellen has a new boyfriend, a macho neighborhood guy who shows signs of being violent. So much so that he participates in the murder of Luke. Over the course of a few days, events lead Claude to question, for the first time ever, her friendship with Ellen. Will she have to let go of the person she loves most in order to be happy and true to herself? Tough times, where urban teenagers become adults if they are lucky, or else end up in drugs, in prison, or dead&#133; The type of movie we would like to believe is a horror fiction, rather than a picture of our nice so-called 'civilized' society. "},{"Title":"Plays on feelings","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All Over Me is a film that isn't so much about telling a story as much as it is about feelings and emotions within the characters that are not so obvious at first.  The intentions and desires of the characters unfolds as the movie progresses at a very slow pace, and the dialog is intentionally bland, not sharp in any way, as if it was real life.  There is no attempt by the filmmaker or actors to make this look like it is a movie, beyond some rather artsy shots here and there.  It is simply a window into a young girls life and the small, confused, somewhat corrupted world that surrounds her while she is making another transition in her development in life.  This is a very subtle film with very few shifts in tone.  The action that leads to the most drastic shift in the film is not even seen, only talked about later on.  Even the more climatic moments result in not much happening, though tension does build on a number of occasions.  The acting is top notch.  In fact, the acting is so superb that it almost makes me wish that the script had just a little more zing to it since the actors could have definitely pulled off some colorful dialog and made for some classic scenes.  Regardless of that, All over Me is a good enough film, though if you can't get into the characters or want to see a movie that feels like a movie and not a documentation of life, you won't dig it.   "}{"Title":"Grappling With Hormones.","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alison Folland is a young woman in a shabby section of New York who, after a tempestuous friendship with blond, impatient Tara Subkoff, and the murder of her gay buddy Luke, comes to terms with her own lesbianism and finds a happy and accommodating partner in Lucy, a band leader in a place that looks like the Swing Rendezvous in the Village used to look.Maybe that makes it sound more complicated than it is. It's really a rather simple movie, a little pedantic, a delicate character study rather than a mystery or action movie. Roughly speaking, all the gays are good and all the straight people are messed up. That's not too hard to follow, is it? Well, there are a couple of exceptions, but not many. Don, the Italian owner of the pizza restaurant where Alison and a gay guy both work, is straight but sympathetic. He's briefly in about four scenes. But it's hard to care about Don's character one way or the other because he serves up these GREAT pizzas (we only get a glimpse but can practically smell it) that make Domino's and Pizza Hut look like impostors. Try to get a pizza like that at four in the morning in northern Scotland! The rest of the straight guys are represented by the boyfriend of Alison's mother, who, in the absence of the mother, begins dangling his insinuations in front of the girl herself, who looks about 16. The straight adolescent goons who ball Subkoff when they feel like it and throw her out when they're bored with her are little more than perambulating pustules.Folland plays a dumpy adolescent who is shy but sensitive. In fact, however, she has a splendid face with modelesque features, fey and pixie-like. Her bone structure is pretty big though and, alas, the configuration of her weight suggests a strong genetic component. There won't be much she'll be able to do about it. It shouldn't matter, but it always does.Subkoff, her inconstant adolescent friend, has a more conventional and rather skinny figure but her voice, features, and demeanor are coarser than Folland's. She looks like Buffy the Vampire Slayer if Buffy were the vampire instead of the slayer. She has probably the most demanding role in the film and brings it off marvelously, a complex character very nicely rendered.The photography and location shooting are just fine. And the movie does middle-class urban dwellers a big favor. You know those young chicks you see on the streets? The ones with violently pink hair done up in a fashion resembling a tangled mop? The ones with maybe a jail-house tat around their biceps? With their clothes half drooping off and that silver ring dangling from their pipiks? Well, only some of them are dangerous stoners. Many of them are just playing with their appearance, as adolescents are want to do in all cultures, and they may be a little thoughtless but fundamentally decent people. I'd watch out for the guys though, especially if they're straight. They have a slight tendency to murder people they find offensive. At least that's what the film suggests. "},{"Title":"A movie of a very odd relationship between friends.","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I do not think it was a bad made film and the acting was decent, it was not enough to hold my attention. I would not say it was a horrible movie or the worst I have ever seen, but I also do not think I would be telling people to run out and see it. The character Ellen made me want to smack her and also the girl Claude for putting up with crap from Ellen. If you look closely there are several people who have gone onto bigger and better things that are in this not so well known film. It is easy to see the inner struggle between a girl trying to grow into herself and trying to be loyal to her undeserving best friend. This is a movie anyone who has an undeserving best friend should see.  "},{"Title":"Good and realistic story from the 90's","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Personally, I find this a very good movie in the way how it handles the subjects love, friendship, argue, sadness and violence. There are also lesbian and gay characters in it. It's a good and realistic story and I think it can help some young lesbian and gay persons if they watch this movie. It's for anyone good to watch this.Alison Folland (I'm a big fan of hers) plays Claude. She is in love with her friend Ellen. Ellen on the other hand is dating Mark but he don't care (much) about her and helps her taking drugs. He is also busy with criminal activities. Claude finds it difficult to see Ellen with him because of her feelings and later on she finds out more and more that he is a bad person. The friendship between Claude and Ellen first is kinda special but later on they get argue because Ellen is very much influenced by Mark.There is also a murder in the story. It's someone Claude knows and it effects her as well.At some moment, Claude meets Lucy, a girl in a music store. They like each other but don't talk yet. Later on someone says that she should try a certain bar so that she can meet people there. In that bar are playing girl bands. She does and finds Lucy again by some lucky chance! I won't tell you how the movie continues because it's nicer for you if you watch it yourself!Also, I find the music good and I think it suits the story. And by looking at the clothing of the characters we can see that the weather is warm. "},{"Title":"A beautiful 'issues' film","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" All over me is a powerful indi film that shy's away from none of themes that are all too present in reality but barely touched upon in popular cinema. Homophobia, drugs, alcohol, violence, murder, sexuality and honest friendship. The film follows 15 year old Claude (Alison Folland) and her best friend Ellen ( Tara Subkoff) as they mature and take very different paths in life. As Claude is dreaming of becoming a rock star and venturing into a tender relationship with Lucy (Leisha Hailey), Ellen gets involved in a drug fuelled relationship with a violent homophobe. Following the brutal murder of a neighbour the girls once tight bond is torn apart as they no longer understand who they are. This film illustrates the role of conscience in a confused young teens mind, whether to do the 'right' thing at risk losing the biggest person of her life or continue watching a murderer walk the streets dragging down everyone around him. The guilt of not being able to save Ellen from her downward spiral and rightfully shopping Ellen's drug dealer boyfriend to the police is eased by Lucy, who can offer Claude all of the love and affection she has been wasting on Ellen. Beautifully made, beautifully written and perfectly acted by the young stars this is a 90's classic that should be watched by any true fan of good cinema. "},{"Title":"Just a ramble....always more but this for now.","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" All over me, by far is one of my favorite movies. The first time I saw it, I loved everything about it. It made me cry, it made me happy. What is better than that. This movie was sad, it had that sadness that makes it so awesome. It's like when you have a best friend and you love them but they don't love you, yes that hurts, yes thats sad, but that is what made the movie so good. You know. I'm looking forward to owning it on DVD, got to have it in my DVD collection and I don't own much only the movies that move and speak to me like this one. It's rare, one of kind. It's certainly clear how Cluade feels about Ellen and on Ellen's part I'm not to sure but if you watch and rewind and watch it again I think you'd know and that is just the way it is. I remember watching the movie thinking I know how Cluade feels, how she felt towards Ellen and how she cried in Lucy's room, I know that because I've been there and it's hard. Anyways such a great movie, worth every penny and all your time to watch it. "},{"Title":"Great Story...Great Acting","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched this movie and I loved it. The characters were very well depicted by this young cast. The storyline and the personal associations of the characters were sympathetic and thought provoking.The technical work and production values were first class. Everyone involved in the making of this film should be very proud of their excellent work. I hope that they all have a successful career. Before I became enlightened, I would have liked to see Mark's character come to a catastrophic end, but that wouldn't jibe with my he has to look at himself in the mirror philosophy.Loved the Raggedy Anne hair. I would highly recommend it to anyone.From a screenwriter wannabe (like half the world). "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was wonderful. I saw it a couple years back, and it just blew my mind. Shows people just how cruel others can be, all because of their sexual preferance. Claude sees how horrible people are, and is so afraid to be herself!! So yeah, berry good movie, go check it out "},{"Title":"just my comments to this film","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not usually one for this kind of film but I thought it was a really good show.  I'm mean I love to watch IFC which is where I saw this movie at for the first time last nite, but some of the others i have watched on there have be a real flop, But I myself give All Over Me two thumbs up...  "},{"Title":"Am Dram but better","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitively urban and gritty stripped to it's core movie. I love low-budget, independant features like these and this has to be one of the best one's I've seen all year. Really nice performances by Alison Folland as the sexually frustrated and confused 'Claude' and Tara Subkoff as 'Ellen' Claude's wreck of a friend. The acting does borderline between amateur and pro but they are convincing enough to watch though you never really quite feel sorry for anyone.*** out of ***** for a decent and watchable effort.  "},{"Title":"Earnest, gritty, solid indie.","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Exceptionally well done for a low budget indie with a novice auteur, All Over Me is a slice-of-life character study which follows an adolescent urban girl, Claude (Folland),  with a-typical sexual inclinations and a dream of playing guitar in a rock band through the mean teen streets of NYC's low rent district where she struggles to cope with a best friend's drug abuse, the murder of an acquaintance, a dysfunctional mom for family,  and her own low self esteem. In lieu of a solid story, this gritty little flick with limited appeal conjures powerful performances from some young actors and is worth a look for realists into films about growing pains and the quiet courage of youth. (B-)  "}{"Title":"Beautifully well made film","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It really gets to me when people seem to get at independent, low budget movies without having seen them first.  This is one movie you should definitely seek out.  Everything is portrayed as is, no fuss, no overacting, just as it would be in any downtown neighbourhood.  The sadness felt by Claude is a paradox to her feelings for Ellen at the same time, and when she breaks down while singing to Patti Smith's classic P**ing in a river you can feel her soul breaking down too.What makes the movie special is that clearly it deals with coming out in a sensible mature manner, not in a patronising way, and together with the well paced riot grrrrl soundtrack, makes the semi-grunge atmosphere and dress the characters have seem real too.  Alison Folland is excellent as the confused but sensible Claude, and Leisha Hailey as Lucy  is inspired casting.  Similarly, Tara Subkoff as Ellen has to go through emotional and drug hell and portrays that side really alarmingly well.Do go rent or buy it, and watch with an open mind. "},{"Title":"Highly believable","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday and I am glad to say that I thoroughly enjoyed it. The characters were well-portrayed and everything was realistic. Being a teenager watching All Over Me, it is easy to relate to what some of the characters are going through. I think it was a very good movie that should have gained more recognition. "},{"Title":"Not a blockbuster, but kept me interested","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A story about two friends who grow apart as they grow up, this is an accurate portrayal of a part of life we can all relate to.  We are all constantly faced with change, and here Claude and Ellen are dealing with just that. I believe it is true, that sometimes you just get stuck in the wrong crowd. Ellen turned down the wrong lane when she continued to see her drug user/loser/violent boyfriend, Mark.  It is only too sad that she did not see the concern coming from her dear friend Claude, as well as all the other RED flags along the way that she is SCREWING UP! Alison Folland (Claude) did an excellent work of communicating her confusion and pain over her selfish (& stupid) friend, Ellen, and other losses she faces.  Claude has to deal with the fact that she is in love with Ellen, even though she is not fully reciprocating...so this complicates matters even more for her - having to identify her sexuality and learn to deal with it. This is a great story of change - not predictible - you feel sad for Ellen, but glad that Claude finds in herself the strength to move on from her dependence on her friend and love, who only became a stranger. Anything like that ever happen to you?  You'll like this. "},{"Title":"Great.....the reverse coming of age story that needed to be made","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie was vastly under-rated. It's told in a fable like way that keeps it in fantasy land but you also know it's real and this sort of thing could happen. Alison Folland is spot on and Wilson Cruz....well, Wilson will always give the same melodramatic performance in every film but here it fits in well. Love this film. "},{"Title":"An amazing look at growing up in the 1990s.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All Over Me is beautiful story of friendship, love, and the journey of finding yourself.  The Sichel sisters' superb script and outstanding acting combine to create a story that is not so unique, but is completely real. Bringing everything together is a soundtrack that succeeds in highlighting all the best bands in indie-rock.  If you are or ever were young and confused, check out this movie. "},{"Title":"i love this story!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i love how this movie is filmed,like everything had meaning the colours.the plot of this movie was excellent and it was interesting how claude had to grow up and everything.alloson folland was great in this movie as she was in to die for...also another great actress was tara subkoff boy did she look different in that movie then she did in freeway and american pie. leisha hailey was excellent in this movie also i wish she would act in other things cause she was really good. it was interesting how everything was in shadow besides in the end starting when she cleaned her of all things ellen whenever she was with lucy at the end and when she turned her back on ellen forever personally i wish they would make a sequel but i dont know if they could do as good a job!!!oh by the way i love the guy who played luke he was cute.... "},{"Title":"A fabulous coming of age movie with heart, punk, and pink hair!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a fabulous blend of love and strife which I've held dear to my heart for some time.  Alison Folland is an excellent actress who proves through conviction and loyalty how tough it is to find the boundaries of friendship and love.  Pat Briggs always brings a mischievous grin to my face when I see him inadvertantly try to bring some light on the glum community around Claude (Folland). Both Subkoff and Cruz also lend a helping hand building the drama and suspense. I thought the movie was very original, full of heart, and the ending was a superb final twist. Great original score and soundtrack as well. However, I believe the most subtle, but strongest character is Leisha Hailey who lets her pink-haired, giddy, fairy-like exuberance sneek into the crooks and cracks of the movie leaving it seeping with hope, passion, and an excellent life theme for young girls in love. "},{"Title":"Gang Warfare","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has a great view of teenagers experimenting, homophobia (in that the character Luke was murdered by the homophobic Mark), drugs and friendship. The lead character of Claud was played excellently, and Wilson Cruz was a diamond. I hope all of the young actors and actresses make it into the big time. "},{"Title":"A Pretty Decent Movie...","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This seems to be one of those hidden gems.  I never would have rented it. Never would have flipped over to watch it... but, as luck would have it, I'm in the midst of the craft project and I turn over the HBO for a bit.The film had me in about 30 seconds.  Something in it just grabbed me, and I ended up staying awake until 300am to finish it.  It wasn't too predictable, plot wise, and the setting was in-your-face reality (not usually my favorite...)But the female lead, Claude, just blew me away.  I needed to know what happened to her.  Two thoughts kept running through my mind... first, that she is an excellent actress and second, that that character has some decent writing!All in all, a good movie!  "},{"Title":"well done","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched the movie yesterday, so my feelings and thoughts haven't quite settled yet. My overall impression is, that it was well done, but not extraordinary. To me Claud's love for Ellen wasn't presented in a way that would make me understand why she stuck with her for so long. I think the cast was pretty good. It would have been nice though, to see a little more of Leisha Hailey. (my personal favourite, in fact) "}{"Title":"A Couple Of Comments...","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked the movie. It reminded me of the movie Kids, only not as harsh. The lead actress, who played Claude, was just fabulous. The director made the big city of New York, seem much smaller than it is.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film about Youth","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While clearly not a revolutionary film, or one that was written perfectly, All Over Me is beautiful in its depiction of youth--perhaps the most accurate I've seen ever in film.  Maybe it's the changing of perspective; gone is the traditional boy-to-man story that is repetitive and stupid, this is all about Claude's self-realization that she is a lesbian, combined with the awkwardness of what happens when you start to change and your friends don't change with you.  A final shot that is haunting and a soundtrack that features some of my favorite songs rather subtley, yet prominently in the storyline (Ani Difranco's Shy, that one Helium song I can never remember the name of, xxxxxxx in a River by Patti Smith), makes for a film that will always be one of my personal favorites no matter how much time passes. "},{"Title":"a movie that really makes you think about the close-minded people around.","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie being a 16 year old girl myself so I found it easy to identify with the characters. I thought all the actors in the movie were really well casted and, as an added bonus, Pat Briggs, who played Luke was really good looking. The soundtrack to the movie was also impressive. I gave it a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"grrl riot","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" by far one of the best coming of age films i've seen in a long time. deals with the trial and tribulations of teenager claude and her best friend ellen and follows their daily lives in hell's kitchen. claude clearly holds a torch for ellen who has an attraction to a local street thug named mark. claude eventually meets up with a local musician and cutie named lucy played leisha hailey of the l word fame. i liked how the relationship was developed and portrayed between between lucy and claude. the awkwardness and pangs of first love. the soundtrack to the film also kicked some serious ass as it used a lot of indie artists and girl bands from the nineties. definitely a keeper. "},{"Title":"Best Movie I've Ever Seen!","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm Jo-Jo from New York (Ernie is my husband and I can't erase his name from the heading!) I really loved this movie - I watch it all the time. The acting and dialogue were very natural. Having been a teenage girl myself - yes it sucks quite a lot but there are fun bits too and the film really did bring that across. I think its high time there was a sequel - are you listening Sichel sisters?! I care too much about these characters not to want to find out what happens to them. For example, I would like to see how Claude's relationship with Lucy develops, does she join Lucy's band or form one of her own, and how and when she comes out to her mother. Also, I'd like to see Social Services check into Ellen's living situation - where the hell are her parents?! Its a shame that any sequel will obviously not be able to include Luke - Pat Briggs seems to be a very talented guy and I'm surprised I haven't seen him in anything else. I love Patti Smith too! Does anyone agree with me? "},{"Title":"I like movies with plots","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie would have been so much better if it had a plot. I can understand what the writer was doing, but I don't think he did it to well. If I had to explain this movie to someone I think I would have to say it's about characters growth. A teenaged girl in love with her best friend, forced by separation to find someone with the same feelings. But what I never got with this movie is, why was Ellen so stupid? She stayed with her murderer of a boyfriend even after he almost over-dosed her. And she made out with Claude. what was that about? I don't understand a lot of things about this movie, and I don't think anyone could really explain some of what they saw. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's more than one reason to like this film.  First, there is the undeniable sexual tension between Alison Folland and Tara Subkoff; there seems to be a certain on-again/off-again quality that is often seen in a heterosexual light.  There is also the soundtrack, which ranges from Patti Smith to the Blue Mountain Ozarks'(?) classic, Jackie Blue.  There's also the story itself (which I will not detail here).  The only regret that I have about the film is that it is too short. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's more than one reason to like this film.  First, there is the undeniable sexual tension between Alison Folland and Tara Subkoff; there seems to be a certain on-again/off-again quality that is often seen in a heterosexual light.  There is also the soundtrack, which ranges from Patti Smith to the Blue Mountain Ozarks'(?) classic, Jackie Blue.  There's also the story itself (which I will not detail here).  The only regret that I have about the film is that it is too short. "},{"Title":"Keeps your attention","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was worried that this movie might drag a little but it kept my attention throughout the film. I thought the 2 leads did a wonderful job and they came across as very real people. I especially enjoyed the relationship between Claude and her mother.   "},{"Title":"The girls version of KIDS","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the girls rule version of the popular yet gritty KIDS.  It shows well a girl's reluctance to let go of her life-long soulmate in order to explore her sexuality with new people.  It as not as hard to watch as KIDS and I think sheds light on a subject that needs more attention.  The girl with the pink hair who becomes integral in the movie is awesome, and Rickie from My So-Called Life makes a short but sweet appearance.  I hope the director-writer team return soon.  Check it out! "}{"Title":"Another finely provocative look at scary urban culture in the mid-90s.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Recent docu-dramas such as KIDS and GIRLS TOWN score very big on presentation values and the way current society is told in a realistic manner. ALL OVER ME is pretty much like the rest of them. This one is another look at adolescent problems, but it delivers a frightening message about young teenage girls who are addicted to drugs, alcohol, alternative music, vulgarity, and homosexuality. Its moody and gritty urban setting makes the pleasure even scarier. Every bit of strong attention to detail is well done and well acted, although some may be offended by teenage lesbianism thrown into this thing. I doubt that many of us would feel embarrassed about it, since issues like this has creeped slowly into the mainstream. For me, GIRLS TOWN was better at delivering a rich docu-like account of youths doing all the wrong moves, but ALL OVER ME is another solid example of society gone bad. Pretty disturbing, but that's the whole truth! "},{"Title":"Nice lead","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't particularly  like the movie, the narrative too cliched and seen many , many times before, though I thought the lead charactor Claude, Alison Folland, was a shining light in this nasty New York environment.  Get that girl to Hollywood- post haste! "}]