[{"Title":"Contemporary classic!","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth was released quite a few years ago, but it is still (if not more) relevant today. It merges two cultures, one being the rich white class culture, and the other being the urban lower class culture, and ends up with many universal ideals. The story's hero is Jay Billington Bulworth, portrayed brilliantly by Warren Beatty. I think some people have a problem with the fact that he is...well, more or less insane, but that is possibly the most important thing about the character. You could call him insane, but if you look at it more romantically, perhaps he is posessed by the spirit of social justice, a mere vessel for the truths that need to be told. He is a character unaware of the significance in what he is saying. To him, if he's not completely insane, he's simply a man who broke down and decided to tell it like it is (ala Peter Finch in Network, but with rapping and rhyming). There's something actually kind of mystical about all this.Since it would be way too preachy if that's all there was to the story, there's some other aspects that make for an entertaining viewing. Bulworth, in his depression and anxiety, hired a hit-man to off him so his family could collect the life insurance. Once his speeches and raps become a success, this is obviously a big problem since he wants to live again (You should never make life and death situations when feeling suicidal). There is a love interest with a girl named Nina, played by the lovely Halle Berry. You don't know if you can trust her, and her intentions are unclear.There is also a fine supporting role by Don Cheadle, who plays a business man who uses young children to sell drugs. His character does bring up some valid points, and we're forced to really put ourselves in his shoes. He's doing what he feels is right, but ultimately, the ends don't justify his means.With a movie that has so much going on, it would probably be difficult for the filmmakers to figure out a way to wrap everything up, right? Unfortunately, yes. Bulworth ends pretty abruptly and leaves with the film's message being half-assedly shouted at the screen. The last act is a huge flaw in an otherwise perfect movie.Bulworth is a hilarious comedy and it heralds something truly special and unique. It is not a film to be taken for granted or forgotten. It's a quintessential example of a 'contemporary classic' for our generation. I have no doubt that over the next decade or so, people will want to revisit it and examine the politics and the cultures; it should be studied in classrooms, it should be valued. I loved Bulworth!My rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not Just A Pretty Face","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You have to hand it to Warren Beatty, he redefines the term maverick. He could be, like many of his contemporaries, taking it easy. Instead, Bullworth. One of the most outrageously funny satires I've seen in a long time. Satire? Somebody asked me. Well yes, satire. A realistic, daring, clearheaded, masterful satire. We live in satirical times, we have no choice in the matter. It takes an artist of Beatty's caliber to turns things around and makes us laugh and shiver at this mess of our own making. After seeing Bullworth I felt compelled to revisit some of Beatty's earlier work as an actor or producer or director. From Mickey One to Reds passing through Bonnie And Clyde and Shampoo not to mention Heaven Can Wait Mr. Beatty's legacy is one of amazing consistency. As I smiled enjoying his funny portrayal in The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone with Vivien Leigh, I thought that beautiful man is not just a pretty face. "},{"Title":"The most daring political satire ever made.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"32 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot recommend 'Bulworth' highly enough.   Sure, I've seen lots of worthy political satires.   'The Candidate', 'Wag the Dog', 'Bob Roberts', and others.   But this is the finest example ever made.   Warren Beatty should be very proud of this masterpiece.   Not only for the guts it took to so brazenly confront the modern political process (and how it affects race relations, the film industry, education, medicine, and so on) but also for the fact that he wrote it, produced it, directed it, and starred in it. Any one of those jobs can be a supreme undertaking, and here he has accomplished all four with integrity, wit, humor, intelligence, and undeniable brass.   It is quite simply impossible to watch this movie without being repeatedly shocked at the depth of its honesty.   The supporting cast is also excellent, and Don Cheadle stands out as LD.  "},{"Title":"One of the better films of 1998, with an unabashed comic tone. ***1/2 out of ****","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BULWORTH (1998) ***1/2Starring Warren Beatty, Halle Berry, Don Cheadle, Oliver Platt, Isaiah Washington, and Christine Baranski Directed, produced, and written by Warren Beatty   108 minutes   Rated R (for pervasive strong language, drug use, sexual references, and brief violence) By Blake French	I have seen a lot of movies in my time, but I have never seen anything as witty, as twisted, as entertaining, as outrageous, or as original as Warren Beatty's new political satire Bulworth. It is, at times, funny, but at others very dark. I can't recall ever stating that a serious comedy, is one of the years best films before. That was then, this is now--and Bulworth is truly one of the better film's of 1998. 	As the movie opens, a US senator named Jay Billington Bulworth, hires a hit man to kill an individual of his desire. The hit man wonders exactly who this person is in which a man of such power wishes to eliminate. As it turns out, Bulworth has paid this hit man to kill his own suicidal self. If I'm not dead by Monday, I'm canceling that check. Bulworth states firmly.	This is were the outrageous humor begins. During a campaign speech at a local African American church, Bulworth goes seemingly nuts. He begins to tell the citizens the truth about subjects in congress that most politicians would never think of revealing to the general public. His representative, Dennis Murphy, who cares only about getting Bulworth elected, almost faints in shock and disbelief. But you have to understand, these are the last days that Bulworth will be experiencing life, so why not reveal secrets, release envelop pushing information, and start up controversy with the nation with his last breaths.	Never make life of death decisions when you're suicidal, explains Bulworth during one of the film's more invigoration sequences. He is talking to a woman named Nina, whom he met nonchalantly during one of his presentation speeches. The two of them fall in love. Too bad Bulworth has not taken his own advice typed above, for his death is near. But is Nina who she appears to be? Is his wife, Constance Bulworth, having an affair with another man? Is Bulworth's demise in the near future? All suitable questions that will all be answered when you see the movie. 	Parts of the film do not work. For instance, the subplot involving Bulworth's wife who is adulterous just isn't detailed enough, nor are the characters introduced, for us to even consider this anything but a gimmick. True, the affair does symbolize chaos preoccupied in his household, and establishes another reason for him to be suicidal. Still, it's too small for a movie that offers so many good qualities.  	Bulworth has a detailed opening that provokes empathy for our main character, Jay Bulworth. We learn of an external problem, Jay being involved in a heated presidential campaign, and an internal problem, Jay being suicidal and calling a hit on himself. The structure only goes uphill from there, and that is hard to do. Both conflicts are evolved, with Nina, Bulworth's sense of honesty, the hit man's presence, and several character & plot twists in which someone is not who they appear to be.	Along with some very dramatic and meaningful moments found in Bulworth, also contained is dialogue that is smart, witty, and at times hilarious. The first shock value sequence is truly outrageous, and the films unabashed sense of eagerness only gets more perverse; the film is rated R for appropriate reasons, mostly coming from Bulworth's style of life he becomes involved with. The situations we're facing here are quite controversial, but Warren Beatty directs the film with a certain humorous touch. He uses effective but bizarre camera angles, and a hip cinematographer that creates aggressive chemistry between Beatty and Halle Berry during their party animal scenes together. 	The performances in Bulworth entirely demonstrate that Warren Beatty is not only able to direct, write and produce well, but also that capable to lead an all star cast, including Don Cheadle, Oliver Platt, Isaiah Washington, and Christine Baranski, into an Oscar worthy overall appearance level. All of these things contribute to making Bulworth is of the better films of 1998, and I recommend it highly.   Brought to you by Twentieth Century Fox.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant Warren Beatty Performance Overlooked by Oscar","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In BULWORTH Warren Beatty gives one of his funniest and most outrageous performances. This sharp political satire is even more timely now than it was in 1998. This is a marvelously subversive movie on several fronts politics, race, economics, Hollywood itself! Beatty stars as a fading senator from California who is so burned out he arranges for a large insurance policy and then hires a hit man. He's at the end of his rope personally and professionally. He's losing in a primary election to a young gun and has nothing left in his life. After days without sleep or eating he is dragged off to a rally at a Black church. He starts to read his usual speech but almost in a state of delirium he starts answering questions HONESTLY. He enrages the Black congregation with his brutal answers but somehow feels buoyant. Outside the church as the mobs surround him he runs into Halle Berry and her friends and they all take off in the limo.This starts a voyage of discovery for Beatty. Of course at this point Beatty is also running from the hit man. His new honesty unleashes a desire to live. They arrive at a Black hip-hop club where Beatty drinks, smokes pot, and is transformed by the loud urban rap music. The dance scene with Beatty and Berry is remarkable.Next stop is a speech at a fancy Hollywood hotel filled with film executives. Beatty makes many comments of how Jews run Hollywood, becomes rich, but turn out a crappy product. Next comes a debate with his political opponent, and finally an interview. The new Beatty parrots back much of what he has heard from poor Blacks but of course he has always known the truth. His sense of freedom from the back-room politics of Washington is exhilarating and his new voice reaches the masses of disenfranchised voters. His comments about the media and how it is controlled by corporate America is more apt now (during the Bush administration) than ever before.Beatty is brilliant, and this ranks as one of his very best performances. Berry is actually good as well in her pre-movie star mode when she still bothered to act. Oliver Platt scores as the political aide. Paul Sorvino is a lobbyist for the insurance industry.Jack Warden, Helen Martin, Don Cheadle, Christine Baranski, Florence Stanley, Laurie Metcalf, Sean Astin, Isaiah Washington, Nora Dunn, Joshua Malina, William Baldwin, Hart Bochner, Armelia McQueen, and Jackie Gayle co-star.Filled with humor, political insights, and top-notch performances. This acid look at politics in Amerca is more timely now than ever. Bravo to Warren Beatty! "},{"Title":"Powerful, disturbing and funny political satire","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Other than a few forced silly moments, this is the sharpest, darkest, bravest. most disturbing political satire out of Hollywood since Network. This is Beatty's career best performance by far, making his rapidly breaking down liberal Democrat Senator into a character simultaneously howlingly funny, pitiable, admirable, wince inducing, pathetic and horrifying. Beatty has made a film that walks the razor's edge right along with it's lead character, playing into deliberately provoking racial and cultural stereotypes at the same time it shreds them. This isn't a polite the system needs fixing movie, it's an in-your-face scream that the system is broken, perhaps beyond all repair. That idea seems only more timely now. "},{"Title":"Bulworth dated? Look at New Orleans today and think again!","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth may have been filmed in the MTV quick edit way that some find unfitting for an Oscar worthy production but, aesthetics aside, its contents are right on the mark.Anyone who claims Beatty's/Bulworth's analysis and solutions to political problems are dated, must be living under a rock. As we speak, Bulworth's claims that white people have more in common with black people than with rich people are proved to be completely accurate as we look at the devastating aftermath of hurricane Katrina. Though New Orleans' population consists largely of blacks and ethnic minorities, those who were left behind had ONE common denominator they are infirm either economically or physically i.e. they are POOR or HEALTH CHALLENGED. The TV-images show poor white people among the many poor blacks. Poverty is what sets them both back. Bulworth dated? You must be living in a socio-economically comfortable cocoon.If anything, Beatty proved with this, both hilarious as bluntly accurate, brilliant movie to be a visionary. He puts his finger on where it hurts most the complete corruption of the system, the hand-clapping, backslapping deals between interest groups and politicians, turning the last group into mouthpieces for selfish agendas. The hypocrisy behind the photo ops (look at Bush yesterday on the news posing with hurricane victims), the empty rhetoric, the feigning to be there for the people, when really they're only there for themselves.People who cannot come up with more than this is socialist rhetoric/propaganda comments are obviously deaf, dumb and blind to the realities of (modern day) politics and therefore deserve to be duped by the leaders they so willingly, blindly, wish to trust, believe and follow. It really is true folks Tax payers, tax payers, take it in the rear. Wake up and smell the dung, for goodness sake!Now for the movie itself. Some have commented that Beatty, as an affluent, middle-aged (by now senior citizen) WHITE man, cannot possibly understand what ordinary people go through. Think again. Beatty has been in politics for the Democrats for decades. He is one of the very few rich (DEMOCRATIC) guys who actually gives a damn about the less privileged of our society. Being rich does not equate being unable to educate oneself, nor does being white. Beatty's always had many contacts and friends in the black community with whom he exchanged ideas and concerns.I'm colored and found nothing about the movie stereotypical or racially offensive AT ALL. Those who do, including blacks, are missing the larger picture this movie is trying to paint. Bulworth is not intended as a white Messiah for the stereotypical hoodlum blacks. He is a metaphor and as a wake-up call, he NEEDS to be an extreme. The movie would not have worked if Bulworth had been a black senator, a young senator, or if Bulworth had met a white single mother Starbuck's employee. When you want to reach people, you have to wake them up, you have to make them sit up, take notice, think, and start discussing what they have just seen. THAT's exactly what this movie in THIS chosen format, with these characters, does. It completely serves its purpose. Unfortunately those who oppose the movie are even unaware that their criticism is a credit to this movie, for it apparently made them think (even if they arrive at mixed up, not understanding conclusions).Bulworth is not perfect, but its imperfections are easily forgiven. The movie keeps moving without a dull moment in it. Beatty is hilarious and totally enjoying his part (and his freedom?) addressing everything that's wrong in this sick society with a zeal and energy that many guys half his age must envy. I love the fact that this is the first movie in which Warren dares to look his age. He has never been afraid to ridicule himself in past movies. Anybody who's into Beatty knows that horse-face Carly Simon's You're so vain most definitely is NOT about him. The rest of the cast is simply fantastic, too. Oliver Platt is rib-crackingly funny as the concerned, confused and finally mentally broken down campaign manager Murphy. He elevates the term spin-doctor to complete new heights! Joshua Malina (campaign aid Feldman) is almost as funny. Platt and Malina have some hilarious scenes together. Old Beatty favorite, veteran actor, Jack Warden is solid as ever. Halle Berry's character could have used a bit more humor, but she does a good job. Yes, it is a bit of a stretch that the gorgeous Nina would fall for the used to be gorgeous too, but not so much anymore aging Bulworth, but to state that without looking deeper into how she comes to her choice, is to ignore a significant part of the movie. At first she doesn't know what to make of this, seemingly confused, man. But as she follows him, his actions, his words, his attitude, she discovers that he is sincere. That combined with him being in a position in which he could actually make a much needed difference in society, makes her change her mind and fall for him. It's not like this young girl Nina has some geriatric preferences in the romantic department! Ariyan A. Johnson and Michele Morgan are amusing as the two enthusiastic new Bulworth VOOOOOOLUNTEEEEEEEEEEEEERS. Paul Sorvino, Richard Sarafian, Don Cheadle are all solid. Yes, the turnaround of L.D. in the end is too quick in the making, but the alternative would be a (much) longer movie, so that's one of the very few weaknesses in the script. Last comments - NO, Bulworth does not only speak in rap once he's started rapping. - NO, Bulworth is not some aging actor's ego trip. It's a wake-up call to America. - Never knew a 60 plus year old white guy could look so hilariously cute in hip hop gear. - Let the spirit take hold of you, and let it lead you to take action, now that Bulworth has been silenced....... "},{"Title":"No Bull, Just Bulworth","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I should have known this movie was going to be good because it came highly recommended by Matt Lueck, who seems to be very picky about what he considers good movies. This movie was exceptional.If you don't like politics, this film might not be for you. Or maybe it would be for you even more, since all it does is attack the political system. Warren Beatty stars as a Seantor who is sick of all the lies and crap in Washington, so he takes out a life insurance policy and hires a hit-man to kill him. After partying with some ghetto people (including Halle Berry) he sees the error of his ways and tries to call the hit off. The rest of the film follows this path.I liked the storyline of the film, but more so I liked the nuggets it dropped along the way. The claims of politicians using minorities, the reality of drug culture, the fact that greed controls health care in this country. I found myself agreeing with almost everything in this film (though the part about the elimination of all races went too far). The ending was also exactly what I expected it to be - and what I felt it should have been. Only they added an aspect I hadn't considered and I think it made the film so much better. (I'm being vague so as not to give anything away.) Warren Beatty rapping is both comical and annoying. But if you look past his wack skillz and listen to what he has to say about corporations, big oil, TV networks and more, you'll get so much more out of this film. I'm also not a fan of Halle Berry, but she was probably the best person for the role so I'm okay with that. Hooray for Oliver Platt and Sean Astin, both looking very slim in this movie.Not the best film you'll see this year, but highly recommended just the same. "},{"Title":"Simply A Very Odd Film","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"20 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wasn't exactly sure how to rate this film, and I bet others weren't either. It's difficult to say but fascinating to watch. Some scenes are terrific, others just terrible trash.Halle Berry plays anything but a likable lead, nor are the characters people you can root for, except for Oliver Platt in the first half of the film. Then he totally changes.Nonetheless, this is Warren Beatty's film, anyway. He dominates it and is what makes the movie fun. Knowing him and knowing this was political, I expected big-time Liberal propaganda but didn't find any heavy-handedness there.For a comedy, there are way, way too many f-words, even in the music, if you want to call it that. Despite that, the film has some charm, if it's possible to use that word in a film this profane. Beatty's rap lyrics were genuinely funny, no matter what your political persuasion might happen to be. An odd film. "},{"Title":"Getting In Touch With Your Inner Homey","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Warren Beatty's Bulworth is one devastating satire on the political scene of the Clinton years. Sad to say things really ain't gotten any better here.J. Billington Bulworth, Democratic Senator from California at one time rising liberal star has had to tack mighty heavily to the right in order to keep his office. Even at doing that he's facing a heavily financed rightwing opponent. With defeat staring him in the face and no home life so to speak with both he and his wife pursuing the opposite sex, Bulworth just decides to chuck it all. His friends in the insurance industry are writing him one whopping life insurance policy and Bulworth hires a hit man to do him in. Of course no with nothing to lose our U.S. Senator who before mouthed the political platitudes and nostrums we get from our elected officials at voting time, now starts telling some uncomfortable truths. Lack of sleep and some controlled substances produce a rapping U.S. Senator who along the way picks up some black groupie types with Halle Berry. The consequences of all these hijinks you'll have to watch Bulworth for.One friend has compared it Network and there are certainly some similarities. I think Bulworth should be seen back to back with Robert Redford's The Candidate. If you'll remember Redford was the idealistic liberal who trimmed his sails through the advice of his hired spin doctors and got himself elected U.S. Senator from California. His Bill MacKay was wondering what he does then at the end of that film. I think Bulworth provides some answers as to a possible direction MacKay might have taken.Warren Beatty wrote a witty script and a mean rap. Director Beatty gets some good performances by his cast and best in the supporting cast is his aide Oliver Platt who sees his whole career going down the tubes. There's a peculiar symbiotic relationship between Capitol Hill staffers and their bosses. They serve at the pleasure of, but at the same time a good one can make himself pretty valuable to his boss. Platt's such a guy, his character is quite authentic.Remember watch Bulworth back to back with The Candidate. "}{"Title":"Politicians ain't worth bull, says Bulworth.","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Screenplay Conceived by Beatty himself, Bulworth was committed to paper by an extraordinarily versatile trio co-writer of one of Beatty's earlier forays Jeremy Pikser, James Toback, the adaptor of Bugsy, and Aaron Sorkin, whose renowned machine-gun fire dialogue is no stranger to politics (see The West Wing). The result is, unsurprisingly, imbalanced. The plot follows Democratic Senator Jay Bullington Bulworth, a man who has become so jaded by the American political system that he has taken a contract out on his own life, after purchasing $10 million worth of life insurance. This all takes place leading up to his campaign for re- election and so, with a new reckless, go for all outlook on life, he starts speaking the truth. As a rap. Yes, a rap. Warren. Beatty. Rapping. Politics. Rap. Ping. Strangely, and really bloody unexpectedly, it works! Most of the time... Kind of. I mean, how well would you expect something like that to work? In a sophisticated satire? The context is sort of there he begins rapping to appeal to the disparaged and African-American community, where most of the focus is directed during this film. Most of what is said by Bulworth pokes holes in the financial support that insurance companies offer to candidates on both sides of the water, usually so as to enlist a vote against bills that force these companies in having to extend free health care or other such coverage to, yep, African-Americans. Not everything that he says sticks; actually, to be honest, I didn't even follow some of the logic he was spouting. But maybe I just don't have sufficient understanding of American politics. At any rate, the script is at it's best with moments of total uninhibitedness (Everybody just got to keep f*cking each other till we're all the same colour.) and when it takes its time to make a point, as opposed to just dropping the N word incessantly.Actors Beatty's not much of a rapper. Well, that's alright I suppose. I'm a white boy from Tasmania, so who am I to judge? What's important is that he makes us believe Bulworth's erratic and quixotic frame of mind, which he does most of the time. It helps that, when he can't, he's usually operating on one or more mind-altering substances. And his chemistry with the sexy and savvy Halle Berry is palpable, making their connection surprisingly touching on some level.Direction Beatty has never made a bad film. He's been in a few, to be sure (Love Affair, Town & Country), but he has yet to direct a film of sub-par quality. Here, he applies a basic yet effective formula to filming Bulworth, immersing us in the unfamiliar settings that the eponymous character himself is amongst and juxtaposing us in a way that makes us empathise. We feel as out of place in these night clubs and ghetto back streets as Bulworth, but the stiltedness slowly subsides to suggest a gradual ease that he begins to feel. Nothing to get excited over, but well-executed with appropriate measure.Potential for repeat viewings My second viewing, and I would happily watch it again... In a while. Some might be put off by the ending(s), but I like them; the first one seems a little phony and too neat until the true ending reveals itself, adding a dignified poignancy to the film. I feel I've not said enough about the humor in this film, and I should point out that it is very funny. Not the laugh out loud sort of funny that some prefer; the humor is not obvious, not brazen or expectant of hearty bellows. But it is quietly amusing, requiring only a wry grin or occasional chuckle to be fully appreciated. And, joy of all joys, most of the time it is very, very clever. Far cleverer than me, at any rate. "},{"Title":"Excellent - and many critics don't know the background or understand the film","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's a reason a film like this is so rare.  Warren Beatty had a deal with the studios that he could do whatever he wanted on *one* movie of his choosing.  And he picked Bulworth.  If it hadn't been for Beatty's interest this flick would have never been made.  Of course, once the studio saw how controversial this movie was they quickly distanced themselves and barely even promoted it.  In other words, there is no hypocrisy here - Beatty made a film that criticizes the current system with a pure in your face attitude. This isn't a movie cynically produced by Hollywood.  It's a gift from a true believer who was able to sneak it through the system.A lot of critics missed certain obvious points.  First, Bulworth hadn't slept in days.  It's well documented that people with little sleep can hallucinate.  This is the setup for his wild behavior.  Lastly, the ending is absolutely appropriate. As Beatty said in an interview, there was no other possible ending.  He simply followed the patterns of history.  To criticize the ending is to fall into that ethnocentric American attitude of always wanting a happy ending.  Well, sometimes you lose, but there are still gains to be made.There are other points to be made, but 'nuf said.  If you're a liberal or moderate you should have good reasons to like this film, especially if you can get past the language.  If you're a conservative or pro-big business you'll hate it.  But that's the point of the film Big business is hurting us all and we need to step up and demand our rights back.  This is an empowering movie that will help many people make that move to speaking out. "},{"Title":"Bulworth - Crazy senator","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think that regardless of your political leanings, it's hard to not at least find 1998's Bulworth appealing because of the simple fact that the movie succeeds, because, to me, in all instances, it shouldn't have. Any movie that features a middle-aged (star Warren Beatty was 61 in '98) Democratic senator who's running for reelection and uses raps to voice his views to his constituents gets an automatic A in my book.I must confess my love for hip-hop and its fusion with politics, as attributed to such (in)famous landmark rap groups like Public Enemy or Boogie Down Productions, and Beatty's raps seem so improvised you'd think he'd have a career as a rapper. In Bulworth, the film (and Beatty) show us the dark underside to American politics - it exposes the lies, the corruption, and seemingly lack of morality apparent on all political fronts. If Bulworth were released in today's volatile times, Beatty would receive every ignorant, nasty liberal and socialist tag conceivable.Democratic senator Jay Billington Bulworth (Beatty, in a Golden Globe-nominated performance) has reached the end of his rope. The spark of his love for politics has finally fizzled out. He hasn't eaten or slept in three days; he's on the verge of a nervous breakdown. In desperation and at one last attempt to lend weight and meaning to his hapless existence as he embarks on a whirlwind reelection campaign, he puts a contract out on his own life, a weekend research project is what it's called.I've not heard of many politicians who would dare say and do some of the things that I see Bulworth do in this film. It takes balls (sorry to be so blunt) to do this, especially at the expense of your career and your life as a politician. How many times can a speech start out the same way, We stand at the doorstep of a new millennium... Beatty is amazing with this movie and especially with its script (co-authored by himself and Jeremy Pisker), which got an Oscar nomination in 1998.Bulworth stuns his colleagues and the masses with his radical new views (many of which, are in fact, Beatty's own). His top political adviser Dennis Murphy (Oliver Platt) is shocked greatest of all as he's left to frantically pick up the pieces of Bulworth's rampage and try to save his own job, his wife (who throws the cameras the best phony smile I've ever seen from a politician's spouse) climbs into the bed of another man, and Bulworth eventually finds love and comfort with Nina (Halle Berry), an inner-city L.A. activist.Bulworth starts to dress-down the part of the rapping, rhyming politician who speaks the blunt truth about our American system of politics, especially with regards to the African-American community, about how the Democratic Party doesn't really care about blacks and how the Republicans are screwing us over in their pitiful attempts at trying to relate to our problems by exploiting us.Bulworth is an extremely vulgar and laugh-out loud satire that breaks the rules at every corner. Beatty is excellent in a comical and certainly inspired performance that defies standard Hollywood conventions; Bulworth's greatest muse are his constituents, who come to include an inner-city tough (Don Cheadle) and his soldiers. His script (and this film) in general, are one of the most original pieces of political satire I've seen in recent years.In the aftermath of the 2004 election, you would think that a movie like Bulworth will turn heads everywhere, on both sides. As I stated earlier, some may give this film a lot of nasty socialist labels that ignore the simple and true fact that American politics is in trouble. If only the analogous but fact-of-life comparisons between Martin Luther King, Jr. and Bulworth's life didn't prove true...10/10 "},{"Title":"Beatty Works Hard, But Bulworth Only Half Lands","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth is another high-profile political satire that came out in 1998 that should have been on fire due to its pedigree and instead comes off as rather limp.Warren Beatty plays an end-of-his-rope politician who goes a little off his rocker and begins to speak the truth to the people, often by rapping it to them hip-hop fashion. The joke is that the people love it, responding warmly to a politician who's willing to cut through the bullsh*t and tell it like it is.The film is creative and has an interesting conceit, but it just doesn't work in that vague way that films sometimes don't and that's hard to put a finger on. Beatty's pretty good, but the whole film feels like it's trying too hard to be an art-house classic, and the tone doesn't fit the personalities of the artists associated with it.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Beatty's back taking chances","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the renegade stars from the 1960's, Warren Beatty had suddenly become soft in the '90's (what with the excruciating Love Affair). But Bulworth finds him treading semi-dangerous ground again, and it is a relief. In 1996, Democratic Senator in California is running for a staid re-election, when he suddenly ditches his straight-laced campaign and concentrates on winning over black, urban voters. Beatty as a 'brother'? It's actually less painful than it sounds, and the actor/director is wise to surround himself with a very competent troupe of supporting players (including Halle Berry in the best performance I've seen from her). A well-made picture with a thoughtful message and finale, although the film's aim to be a wicked send-up of politics is slightly compromised by a dopey hit-man sub-plot. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"like the idea","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1996. Californian Democratic Senator Jay Bulworth (Warren Beatty) is worn out and cracking up. His politics has been drifting right. He suffered a large lost shorting pork bellies. He gets $10 million in life insurance to be paid to his 17 year old daughter. He hires a hit-man to kill him. When the hit doesn't happen as expected, he starts acting strange. His off-the-cuff speech at a black church attracts Nina (Halle Berry). His chief of staff Dennis Murphy (Oliver Platt) is besides himself while C-SPAN is filming a special on the senator. As his truth raps gain media traction, he tries desperately to cancel his assassination.I like the idea a lot better than the actual execution. Firstly, I don't find this that funny. I don't think I actually laughed. A few things irk me the wrong way. I find Warren Beatty a bit creepy in this role. He's unbalanced and I have a difficult time fully embracing him. It's watching an old white guy trying to act black. It may be funny for a second but it's terribly awkward. The movie needs to find its heart and it seems to be his daughter. He's essentially doing the assassination to give to his daughter but she's never on the screen. The movie needs to start with him and her having an emotional scene. It needs to anchor the whole movie and that is the missing piece. She is his heart.Murphy is too slow to catch on. He needs to be on the ball quicker. He does say that Bulworth needs to tell him what the play is. However, he should be smart enough to come up with a play himself and so much more. He could be a great insightful character if he's written smarter. Not to mention the couple of stereotypical black girls in the posse. The high-minded political talk is also mind-numbing. There are moments that I like and I want the movie to go a different way sometimes. This is a movie where I love the concept but the execution isn't as much fun as I hope. "},{"Title":"Bulworth is a Messy, Messy Political Parable","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For those who ever had the inclination to see Warren Beatty rap, boy do I have a movie for you. To be honest, much like today's circus- like political climate, I have no idea what to make of this film. Is it a mess? Is it a masterpiece? Misunderstood? Offensive? Passionate? Tone-deaf? Can it be all of those things? I'm going to venture to say yes.Jay Bulworth is a longtime Democratic Senator from the State of California. The first time you see him there are frames in his office of Martin Luther King Jr., Jesse Jackson and other prominent civil rights leaders. Yet the campaign ads playing in his office ring of a former liberal turned centrist. Sacrificing his values and trapped in a marriage that's been dead for a while, the insomniac Senator plans to end his life; suicide via hit-man. Then he campaigns like a madman telling the truth as he sees it.I can see where the film is coming from and I give it props for its bluntness. Former rebel-rouser turned Hollywood celebrant Warren Beatty cashed in all his chips to play the manic Senator who sputters his rhymes with the truth of the streets. By all outward appearances Beatty may have lost his cache after Dick Tracy (1990) under- performed back in the early 90's but truth be told, Bulworth feels more like his Swan Song leaving everything out on the field.Bulworth was released among a mass of savvy political comedies that defined the Clinton years. Dave (1993), Primary Colors (1998) and Bob Roberts (1992) all left an indelible mark and honed in on very specific cultural pressure points and policies. Bulworth is the only one to my recollection that concentrated largely on race, urban blight and crime; a subject not captured outside of movies like Do the Right Thing (1989) and Boyz n the Hood (1991). In other words, movies made by black filmmakers for black audiences, appreciated by the critical community though largely ignored by white America.Yet as much as I'd like to give Bulworth a thumbs up for focusing on a misrepresented population and catered by white liberal guilt I just can't. Much of it has to do with Beatty's borderline black-face one- man mistral show. For all his good intentions, the level of appropriation and white paternalism should have been enough to make audiences of the nineties look twice. The only person who manages to break through Beatty's campy monologue on race relations is Don Cheadle's L.D., a drug kingpin who scolds the Senator for the company he keeps. Even then his words are simply parroted later as a lazy attempt to empower. It's like Bulworth became Cheadle's white- friendly translator.I will say this, despite my reservations, this film will remain in my memory for quite sometime due in large part by the visuals. The story certainly puts the audience in the point of view of the sleep- deprived Senator. The dialogue overlaps in a dizzying cacophony of sounds, the lights gleam with jarring intensity and the camera likes to doddle in a series of one-takes yet never seems to stop moving. I suppose that's something; that despite its insensitive portrayals and warped politics it still manages to be visually mature.Yet despite it's flair, there's the problem of believably. Within a 48-hour period the Senator's campaign implodes in a flurry of insanity. He manages to run from his handlers several times, drive a limo into oncoming highway traffic, slink away from public view to rendezvous with a young Halle Berry, assault a police officer, attend a drug dealer's party and steal a car. This is not even including what he says to his donors! It's realistic for the media to eat it all up in an almost orgasmic fashion but its patently unrealistic for the man to become a political icon because he does all this madness while rapping like a elderly Beastie Boy.In an almost perverse way, Bulworth has become a harbinger of the modern political landscape in two major and tragic ways. With the repeated incidences of police officers killing unarmed black men and women, it's easy to project the same frustrations we see on the nightly news with the story of Bulworth and his near suicidal odyssey. Much has changed in the last seventeen years yet we still face the exact same problems concerning racial relations now; lack of opportunity, social injustice, abhorrent drug abuse, lack of diversity in those in power, and a huge swath of the population either ignoring the problem or denying there's a problem at all.Then there's Bulworth as a cult of personality. As his behavior and public persona becomes more erratic, his handlers morph the Senator's new-found honesty into a cynical political strategy. New acolytes to Bulworth's kamikaze campaign consume his words, feed off his brevity and are entertained by his one-man circus act. Dare I say it? In a time before Twitter and Instagram, Bulworth predicted the singularity that is Donald Trump. Bulworth may have a more inclusive message than the Donald but his presentation is much the same, i.e. that of a preaching, vitriolic, rebel-rousing populist. Also much like Trump, instead of apologizing for his insane proclamations, Bulworth doubles down, trampling over anyone with a semblance of sanity.Much like the American political process, Bulworth is likely messy and off-putting by design. I applaud its efforts but a bi-product of this movies messiness are offensive caricatures and absurdly painful moments that are as unhelpful as they are untactful. Its interesting to note that this movie, unlike Warren Beatty, is still relevant though unfortunately its relevant for all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"Beatty Worth.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth (1998) Dir Warren Beatty / Cast Warren Beatty, Halle Berry, Oliver Platt, Don Cheadle, Paul Sorvino Honest yet misguided political satire attacked regarding its racial content. It does deal with the issues it raises, such as racism, welfare and political honesty. Tired of pointless campaigns Senator Bulworth surprises everyone when he turns vulgar on camera. The truth hurts but he gains popularity in the urban communities. Despite interesting plotting the romance between Bulworth and Halle Berry isn't necessary with an ending that misfires largely from seemingly tacked on. Observant directing by Warren Beatty who previously made Dick Tracy. Here he is obviously quoting largely from Network, which also showcased a high profile personality going out of control. Fantastic work by Beatty as Bulworth who reveals the exaggeration of political phoniness while experiencing the world outside his office. Berry is terrific as the woman he falls for thus erupting media gossip. Oliver Platt plays Bulworth's struggling adviser but the role, like many other supporting roles in this film, seems tacky and too much of a stereotype. Don Cheadle plays Bulworth's view into reality. They do not hit it off at first until he sees Bulworth as a changed man. Although it isn't Network, the film is well made as Bulworth becomes aware of life and tries to live it. Score 6 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Bizarre, polarising, but feels too derivative of Network.","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth is a very odd film. It's right there in the plot summary, that's a contradiction like none other. And it's bizarre how it's approached like any other script. It has all the elements of a great screenplay with its many layers of plot development running the way they should be. The structure is definitely its biggest strength and why the premise is more accessible than it should be, although perhaps a little too derivative of Paddy Chayefksy's Network in its approach to the character. However, it's not free of extraneous detail. Far few too many characters are one dimensional, if entertaining, and instead it feels quite bloated whereas it could've been a lot more focused. It wants to be a grounded satire and then at times absurdist with Beatty's senator teasing his employees or the mysterious stalker in the shadows. It may be well written but Beatty's direction struggles with these tonal shifts. But then again it's supposed to be polarising with his controversial raps and dips in different cultures. Bulworth is a very interesting film and one worth watching, but not one that feels like it comes together as a complete piece. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Delicious tragi-comedy","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sen. Jay Billington Bulworth has sold out, lost any say in how he spends his time, and lives a family values lie. Suicidally depressed, he comes up with a scheme to throw in the towel and have his nemesis -- the insurance industry -- pick up the tab.For the first time in memory, Bulworth speaks honestly and actually has some fun. To his surprise, he makes two amazing discoveries along the way -- he can actually do some good, AND find true love.I had seen this roller coaster of a movie a while back and rediscovered it recently on Sundance. I was amazed at how well it has held up, with all its talk of Obamacare-style socialized medicine and even references to the cool vegetable du jour, kale. There is amazing work here by Warren Beatty, who not only stars but also wrote the trenchant and hilarious script. Beatty is a poignant and believable protagonist on a high-speed road trip of outrageous public performances and flights from a suspected hit man in shades.Among the many interesting things that Beatty highlights in this film is an appreciation for plain-spokenness in the African-American community -- as contrasted with endless beating-around-the-bush by white folk.He says a lot about race relations that rings true today. And though he's a longtime supporter of Democratic politics, Beatty skewers both parties for being self-serving and money-grubbing.The plot twists and casting in this film are of the highest order. Halle Berry shines as a straight-talking street tough who wins Bulworth's heart. Their frenetic dance at an underground club -- is there any better chemistry in a movie, ever? Oliver Platt and another actor whose name I don't know are sublime as Bulworth's sweating-bullets handlers, and I savored the performances of character actors Jack Warden, as Davers, and Richard Sarafian as the sloppy, crude, and gluttonous Vinny.There are so many lessons in this film for all of us. Let's get real, people! Say what you mean, and mean what you say. If speaking in rhyme makes you happy, just do it! Don't sell out. And try to help your fellow man. C'mon, Bulworth...get thee to the ER! And long live Bulworth! "}{"Title":"What is truth?","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Warren Beatty is a California Senator who hasn't slept or eaten anything for days. He's distracted, exhausted, going mad. He decides to take out a large insurance policy and then arranges to have himself murdered by a hit man he's never met. Since he knows he's losing his life, losing his political position begins to look like a small matter, so he appears disheveled at fund raisers and criticizes Jews at a meeting of movie moguls, blacks at a meeting of blacks, refers to Catholics as mackeral snappers, and so on. His staff are going mad too by this time.Eventually, Beatty falls in with a large and diverse black family in the ghetto, led there in a sinuous path by Hallie Berry. He picks up a skill at rhyming speech, dresses like a home boy in shades and phat pants, and gets one too many capitalists angry at him when he takes up liberal causes.I don't know why it doesn't work better than it does. It's not Beatty's performance, which is about as good as it usually is, and he has some very funny moments. The performances of Beatty's staff, led by Oliver Platt, are fine as well, except that they turn chaotic at the end. It's not Hallie Berry, who is so sexy, so beautiful, so fey in her prospect that she can do no wrong. Her father was African-American and her mother was a white European. She's only categorized as black because we all agree that she should be. Just as it's only common agreement that gives English separate words for blue and green, while other languages have only one word for both colors. Sometimes reality is what we make of it. I'm throwing that in, just in case anyone is curious about issues like this. They should look up the social construction of reality in Google. Beatty's improvised rap lyrics are amusing when they're not too fast or too complicated to understand. The hip hop music is execrable. My heart sinks when I hear it because it takes so little skill to produce. I have more than enough electronic percussion ringing in my ears from the moment I get out of bed. And when my nervous system started to go berserk, my thoughts took on a peculiar configuration too but it had class -- iambic pentameter. I'm not sure of the significance of the ending. We've had a kind of lecture on the positions that many blacks are forced into, including the children, and the bitterness they feel towards whites. When Bullworth begins to spout his more generous views, at least some of them, like Don Cheadle, are so amazed that they reform. Okay. A nice warm and uplifting ending. But if it's supposed to be a feel-good fairy tale, why have Bullworth end up as he does? It doesn't seem as if the writers had a clear end game in sight. They're like some of our politicians trying to manage events in the turbulent Middle East. "},{"Title":"You got to be a spirit! You can't be no ghost.","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" All we need is a voluntary, free-spirited, open-ended program of procreative racial deconstruction. Everybody just gotta keep f*ckin' everybody 'til they're all the same color.I revisit this film periodically as it is so appropriate to what is happening in the country. Warren Beatty has written, directed, and starred in a timeless ode to the fact that our fascist state is so behind in health care and taking care of the poor.Obscenity? The rich is getting richer and richer and richer while the middle class is getting more poor/ Making billions and billions and billions of bucks/ well my friend if you weren't already rich at the start well that situation just sucks/cause the riches mother f*cker in five of us is getting ninety f*ckin eight percent of it/ and every other motherf*cker in the world is left to wonder where the f*ck we went with it.Yes, we are reminded by this film that we are all at the mercy of the rich. They rape the riches of America and enslave the rest of us. It's hard to take, especially by those who would excuse their behavior because they are waiting for their in the Promised Land. I'm giving them entry-level positions into the only growth-sector occupation that's truly open to them right now. That's the substance supply industry. They gonna run this sh*t someday. They gonna have the whole empire. Man, y'all don't give a f*ck about it. You greedy-ass politicians. That's what you tell me every time that y'all vote to cut them school programs; every time y'all vote to cut them funds to the job programs. What the f*ck; how a... how a young man gonna take care of his financial responsibilities workin' at motherf*ckin' Burger King? He ain't. He ain't, and please don't even start with the school sh*t. They ain't no education going' on up in that motherf*cker. 'Cause y'all motherf*ckin' politicians done f*cked the sh*t up. So what they gonna do? What's a young man supposed to do then, right? What's he gonna do? He gonna come to me, that's what he's gonna do. Why? 'Cause I'm a businessman, and as a businessman, you gotta limit your liabilities. And that's what these shorties offer me limited liabilities; because of their limited vulnerability to legal sanctions, man. It's the same f*ckin' thing in politics, Dog. You find an edge, you gotta exploit that sh*t. That's why y'all sent all them motherf*ckin' teenagers to Iraq. Die over some motherf*ckin' oil money. Send the motherf*ckin' CIA up in the 'hood with all the f*ckin yayos. Slangin' in the hood man. It's the same sh*t in politics.We wonder why we have a problem in this country when we have an education system that is no better that is was before Brown V Topeka, and we keep sending the poor to fight so the rich can get richer.Sure, Bulworth is a political movie made by one of the most political people in Hollywood. It stings and it hurts those who are the object of the numerous political barbs contained therein. It hits at Democrats and Republicans - all politicians are equally to blame for the mess we have.You have to love Warren Beatty for having the courage to make this. It had some other greats here, too, in a huge cast. Halle Berry, Sean Astin, Don Cheadle, Oliver Platt and others, including cameos by Al Gore and others.I've given you a taste. See more, if you dare. "},{"Title":"You got to be a spirit! You can't be no ghost.","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" All we need is a voluntary, free-spirited, open-ended program of procreative racial deconstruction. Everybody just gotta keep f*ckin' everybody 'til they're all the same color.I revisit this film periodically as it is so appropriate to what is happening in the country. Warren Beatty has written, directed, and starred in a timeless ode to the fact that our fascist state is so behind in health care and taking care of the poor.Obscenity? The rich is getting richer and richer and richer while the middle class is getting more poor/ Making billions and billions and billions of bucks/ well my friend if you weren't already rich at the start well that situation just sucks/cause the riches mother f*cker in five of us is getting ninety f*ckin eight percent of it/ and every other motherf*cker in the world is left to wonder where the f*ck we went with it.Yes, we are reminded by this film that we are all at the mercy of the rich. They rape the riches of America and enslave the rest of us. It's hard to take, especially by those who would excuse their behavior because they are waiting for their in the Promised Land. I'm giving them entry-level positions into the only growth-sector occupation that's truly open to them right now. That's the substance supply industry. They gonna run this sh*t someday. They gonna have the whole empire. Man, y'all don't give a f*ck about it. You greedy-ass politicians. That's what you tell me every time that y'all vote to cut them school programs; every time y'all vote to cut them funds to the job programs. What the f*ck; how a... how a young man gonna take care of his financial responsibilities workin' at motherf*ckin' Burger King? He ain't. He ain't, and please don't even start with the school sh*t. They ain't no education going' on up in that motherf*cker. 'Cause y'all motherf*ckin' politicians done f*cked the sh*t up. So what they gonna do? What's a young man supposed to do then, right? What's he gonna do? He gonna come to me, that's what he's gonna do. Why? 'Cause I'm a businessman, and as a businessman, you gotta limit your liabilities. And that's what these shorties offer me limited liabilities; because of their limited vulnerability to legal sanctions, man. It's the same f*ckin' thing in politics, Dog. You find an edge, you gotta exploit that sh*t. That's why y'all sent all them motherf*ckin' teenagers to Iraq. Die over some motherf*ckin' oil money. Send the motherf*ckin' CIA up in the 'hood with all the f*ckin yayos. Slangin' in the hood man. It's the same sh*t in politics.We wonder why we have a problem in this country when we have an education system that is no better that is was before Brown V Topeka, and we keep sending the poor to fight so the rich can get richer.Sure, Bulworth is a political movie made by one of the most political people in Hollywood. It stings and it hurts those who are the object of the numerous political barbs contained therein. It hits at Democrats and Republicans - all politicians are equally to blame for the mess we have.You have to love Warren Beatty for having the courage to make this. It had some other greats here, too, in a huge cast. Halle Berry, Sean Astin, Don Cheadle, Oliver Platt and others, including cameos by Al Gore and others.I've given you a taste. See more, if you dare. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, Smart Look at Politics","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth (1998) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Warren Beatty wrote, produced, directed and stars in this political satire about Sentaor Bulworth who days before the election puts a hit out on his own life due to his depression. He eventually has a mental breakdown and goes on a round of interviews where he decides to tell the truth about America and politics. BULWORTH was pretty controversial when it was first released and it seemed like the studio didn't want anyone to know it was out but I remember feeling it was an incredibly fresh and rather honest movie. Seeing it all these years later it's rather amazing to see how relevant it remains in both its message and look at politics. I think you have to give Beatty all the credit in the world for doing a film like this because you know so many people would be offended by it. It is rather strange to see so many people getting upset over a movie so can you imagine the outrage if a Senator really did do this stuff? The film certainly works because Beatty's performance is just so great and believable. Seeing someone like Beatty rap, dress gangster and being put in all of these situations is just downright hilarious. The scenes inside the black church where he talks honestly about everything from liquor to O.J. Simpson is just priceless but so are various other rants that he goes on. People get up in arms about what's being said but if you actually listen to it the film has a very good message. The supporting players are just as good as Oliver Platt, Halle Berry, Sean Astin, Don Cheadle, Paul Sorvino and Jack Warden all deliver fine performances. The screenplay certainly hits on all the topics it wants to speak on, although the one flaw is that the film does drag on a bit and some things begin to be repeated. Still, BULWORTH is a very sharp and very funny look at politics and Beatty really does give it his all. "},{"Title":"In Your Face Farce","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An impossible feat to pull off, this film is remarkable in its audacious use of Rap rhythms and in your face farce that is a wonder to behold. There is literally nothing like this in moviedom. An over the top take on class war and politics that is amazingly fresh. You would hardly think that Warren Beatty as a depressed suicidal Senator having a nervous breakdown and suffering from sleep deprivation, taking on the ridiculous persona of an inner-city youth and parading it in front of the National News Media, could work as a piercing political satire. But it does, and it is a devastating delivery of an unbridled, out of the box, stream of consciousness conviction of a world gone mad.This is probably too pretentious and pandering for anyone but the far left to tolerate. However, even years later it is timeless, and you cannot deny that it is a mind-numbing movie that is entertaining and one must wonder, just how they made it happen. But here it is. "},{"Title":"Good Political Satire","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Warren Beatty is the director, writer, and star of Bulworth, a political black comedy in the tradition of Bob Roberts and the Contender. He is an old fashioned 60s liberal who has moved to the center to appease the voters. His marriage has secretly been an open one for years, showing the public the perfect couple; sounds like the Clintons. He decides to take out a large life insurance policy and have someone kill him, in order to leave the money to his daughter. He goes off the deep end by appearing at campaign events drunk and making inappropriate comments, which make him a media star. He meets a staffer, Nina(the physically perfect Halle Berry), and the senator quickly hook up; surprise, surprise. Her brother is a drug dealer, and Bulworth hangs out with them and she reveals a big secret. He is revitalized as a candidate and the movie ends ambiguously. Beatty is funny and likable as the politician, and I am always mesmerized by Berry's beauty. Bulworth is a solid 8/10. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The idea behind the movie is a bit simple and straightforward, but yet it works well, creating and amusing and enjoyable film. The purpose of the film was no doubt to be a political satire, however the strength of such a notion becomes a bit lost in all the madness on screen, and there's a silly subplot with a hit-man woven in. Still, the film does manage to get across its points rather well and it certainly has a number of laugh-out-loud moments. But it is the acting that is the most impressive part of the film it is fun to see old Warren Beatty rapping on screen, even if it is a bit over-the-top, and Halle Berry surprisingly gives quite a good performance, especially for one prior to her Oscar win. "},{"Title":"Great commentary, lackluster film","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love what Beatty tried to do with this movie...however, I just don't think it was really all that great.  His political views are cleverly expressed most of the time, and the film has pretty good flow, but his and Halle's acting is pretty stale, and as much as I love Platt, he's stuck in the same rut as always -- funny, but enough is enough.  I would recommend watching this movie simply because Warren Beatty's points as Bulworth should be very well taken -- we're much more afraid of death than honesty when it all comes right down to it.  However, the ending was (as someone else pointed out) rather predictable and the romance cheesy.  I didn't mind it being un-realistic, because you aren't going to be able to express political views like this very well in a realistic setting, but I thought it could have been much better than it really was.  6/10. "},{"Title":"Kind of a mess, but has its moments","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time today, and I really dont know what to make of it. I wouldnt really call it a comedy(It wasnt funny), I guess its a satire. It doesnt really have much plot, Warren Beatty basicly runs through the whole thing making an ass of himself, and I guess it worked!! Has a few thought provoking moments, but not enough.  The cast is great,  some of the cast  appear in Beatty's other films, Paul Sorvino and Jack Warden. I guess I just really didnt understand Bulworth. 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Warren Beatty's Best Film In Years","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty serves as the writer, director and star for the hilarious political satire, Bulworth. He portrays John Jay Bulworth, a senator who is facing reelection. He feels severely pessimistic about the possible election results and basically bored with his career in general so he hires a hitman to kill him. As his last days before the hit is scheduled to take place go by, Bulworth begins to have a little more fun and find more of a reason to live much to the hitman's dismay. Great performances by all involved especially Beatty and Halle Berry as Nina, a young woman who helps give Bulworth a new lease on life through her bubbly and spontaneous personality.  "}{"Title":"Why do people have such a problem with swearing?","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reading back on most people's reviews of this movie it strikes me that the main reason people dislike this movie is because they don't like profanity. Guess what? It's R Rated and reading the blurb on the back of it would suggest it's not going to be for sex or violence. So, this begs the question why did you want to watch it in the first place? Personally I can't understand why anyone has a problem with words which are let's face it, a part of the English language and there to be used. Right on with the film, it's a political satire concentrating on what most Americans would term socialist values (although to most Europeans it would just seem to be left wing politics and not particularly far left politics either) Beatty is well known to be a left wing political speaker and there have been rumours in the past about him running for president. Instead of running he made Bulworth and may I say what a fantastic acheivement it is. I found this film exceptionally well written, competently directed and acting superbly. The cast is nothing short of fantastic. Halle Berry's character remains too under developed but she does her best with the part. Oliver Platt and Dom Cheadle must get particluar mentions though in supporting roles, both were their usually excellent self (what were you thinking with Mission to Mars Don??).This is a daring film and it won't be to everyone's tastes ardent Republicans will just not like it, in fact it pokes at so many areas within the political and media spectrums I suspect there's a lot of people who will not like it for it's politics. People who dislike copious amounts of swearing will dislike it intensely. However people who like Bill Hicks will love it. Beatty rapping is quite frankly somewhat painful at times but you have to pay attention to the words and being honest I doubt whether this film would have been released if Beatty simply spoke the lines. You can say far more controversial things in song or rap than you ever could in a normal line in a movie and as a tool in the film it works. Hopefully Beatty will never release a rap album though! This is a brave film, funny yet with a social message. America is not a democracy as long as it's run by big corporations, health insurance, oil and power companies buying up senators and has a controllable media with which it can keep it that way. That ultimately is the main message of this movie. Comedy is often the best forum for preaching social change. Bill Hicks was a master at it. At least someone is trying to carry the torch follwing his death. "},{"Title":"Um...You just have to see it for yourself.","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty rapping! What next? Ice-T singing Sinatra? Matt Damon playing an ugly math genius? Anything is possible these days. Beatty gets way, way down while poking fun at race relations, big bad insurance lobbies, media circuses, Hollywood sell-outs and self-aggrandizing politicos in his surprisingly ballsy movie Bulworth. It is that unusual specimen, an intelligent, funny movie about American politics. It's what Wag The Dog hoped to be, but wasn't. Director Beatty's baby tells what happens when a California senator finds relief from his depression by simply speaking his mind. A politician telling the truth? Wow, what a concept. Senator Jay Billington Bulworth, in his last week of campaigning for reelection, has hired a hitman to end his own life. That's how bad things are. Then Jay learns the therapeutic benefits of speaking one's mind, in verse no less. He then decides not to die, but it isn't easy canceling his order for the hit. Beatty, playing his age seems to be thoroughly enjoying himself here, and it's catching. Oliver Platt is hilariously harried, too, as the Bulworth campaign manager, a master at changing stories midstream. The beautiful Halle Berry has a somewhat unfocused part that could have benefited from another rewrite. I wanted more of Christine Baranski too, but these quibbles are minor.  "},{"Title":"terrific","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Smart, daring, politically bold comedy is an often hilarious satire about the pros and cons of American politics. Beatty stars as a burned-out U.S. senator who's so far at the end of his rope that he's lost all reason to live. Suddenly, he finds his resolve by embracing the black community and just telling it like it is, causing havoc among his campaign staff, prominent political figures, and the registered voters who have the final say in his potential re-election. Fresh, original, and genuinely funny comedy may not be for all tastes, but it's keen, observant, and provides disturbing insight into the manipulative nature of politics. *** "},{"Title":"Warren and his F words","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Over the years there have been many rumours involving Warren Beatty and whether he would run for political office. Now if he had done that and behaved like Senator Bulworth that would have been something truly remarkable. Instead, we have this movie which starts out as a good idea but becomes one tasteless scene after another. If Warren was aiming for a Black Comedy, Bulworth is not sufficiently black or funny. The cast is good but the film soon gets boring and eventually you really don't care what is going to happen to Senator Bulworth.    "},{"Title":"Nobody seems to just go to the movies anymore","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What happened to just going out for a nice dinner and movie and enjoying the evening, instead of going to the movie and looking for the editing mistakes or the lighting or what that guy in the yellow jacket on the left side of the screen was thinking when he wore that yellow jacket - the wardrobe mistress should be fired.  Please people, give me a break already.  Okay, this movie wasn't drop down fantastic - I'll give you that.  But it did make you think and everything that is said during Bulworth's rap speeches was true. I would love to see some of the people who live in Beverly Hills or Bel Air or some other neighborhood (were the people don't have to worry about their next meal, or how their going to pay the bills, or if they step out of their home they would get shot) to drive down to a place like South Central or Compton at night.  I'm sure they would have the same look on their face as Bulworth did when he drove through there for somewhere safe to hide.  Look I totally expected the ending, there was no way the insurance fat cat's, or anyone else who DIDN'T WANT TO HEAR THE TRUTH, would allow this sort of honesty to continue.  Martin Luther King - think about it..... "},{"Title":"Slamming...","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty funny movie but also has real good social commentary.  It is even amazing that this movie got made.  One scene has Bulworth meeting with the entertainment people in Beverley Hills, and he arrives with a bucket of KFC and tells them that the speech writer wanted him to say something bad about Farakhan cause he thought it would make him look good.  But I am not going to bother appealing to a bunch of jews who put out crap films with excessive violence and are afraid to show any skin he says.  WOW!  now that takes GUTS!Had to enjoy the brutal honesty in this film. And it's also very smart.Rating 7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good idea, mediocre execution","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't share Warren Beatty's ultra-liberal political leanings, but that isn't why I wasn't crazy about this movie. The idea was good, but the movie contained numerous plot holes, erratic character development and a muddled message. There is humor in the movie, but Beatty's script doesn't give us a center so that we can fully appreciate it.The plot has a U.S. senator, played by Beatty, deciding to end it all (why?) by putting a hit on himself that has a weekend deadline. Meanwhile, he goes on a funky odyssey that takes him (and his staff) into a South-Central LA underground club, where he smokes pot, jives with the all-black clientele and begins an impromptu rap career.He tells it like it is at various fund-raisers and interviews, condemning white America's corporate greedmeisters, who control politics, the media, and maybe even the weather, though Beatty didn't have time to go that far. Inner-city thugs are angels who only revert to drugs and manipulation because the white establishment pushed them into it. Beatty earns their respect by telling the world the truth.While satirizing the political establishment isn't a bad idea, Beatty's heavy-handed tactics lessen the effect, acting like a steamroller. In addition, the movie drags at times, and includes a disconcerting amount of filthy language that belongs in a Spike Lee joint (whatever the heck that is). "},{"Title":"great idea, mediocre result","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would agree with a lot of people who said that this movie revealed a lot of the corruption of the power elite in the government.  However, it wasn't articulate enough to make its points hardhitting.  My favorite part is close to the beginning, right when Bulworth decides to be honest and tell the people at the black church the REAL reasons why they were being screwed over.  I think the message here, which regards insurance companies donating tons of money to campaigns and keeping politicians from enacting progressive health care, is clear because he's still talking the way he normally talks--like a middle-aged, upper middle class white man.  But when he decides to push the honesty further and start rapping, it's really distracting, because it's totally unnatural--makes everything in the movie rather farcical.  I'll ruin the surprise Warren Beatty can't rap.  Similarly unnatural is the part where Halle Berry says to Bulworth, You know you're my nigger.  That was totally uncalled for.  What kind of midlife crisis spawned that? "},{"Title":"Very funny, with rather stupid political implications","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked Bullworth, because it was hilariously funny, and some of the satire really hit the spot. However, its political implications are highly questionable. When it comes to politics, the movie simply paints everything white black and vice versa, both literally and figuratively. Ridiculing the fictional world of rich white folks, it creates a virtual reality of its own, the one where all the white people are assholes and all the black people are salt of the earth. The one where hitwomen and youth-exploiting drug dealers sound like PhD's, while explaining why is it all white people's fault that they do what they do for living. The one in which a gang of heavily armed black kids turn out to be a bunch of softies once offered free ice-cream. My favorite scene is the confrontation between Bullworth and Nina's brother in the club (i'm surprised Spike Lee didn't raise hell over it), but it's the last time the movie dares to imply that the black guys are something less than angels sent on Earth to make vicious white guys see the error of their ways. . Still, a very funny movie. 3.5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Very good, but I was hoping for something great","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This wasn't the gem that I was hoping for, but this is still a very solid movie that worked for me largely because it was unconventional.  Predictably, since Warren Beatty wrote and directed the film, his character was scripted as the only truly important person in the whole story.  Luckily, he does a great job, but this would have been better if it hadn't been a one-man show.  There was a great deal of supporting talent in the cast, but none of them were allowed to showcase their acting abilities.  As it is, this was a fairly entertaining film with some good laughs and some interesting points, but it should have been better. "}{"Title":"Funny or just plain cool?","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well I´d have to say...both. I never thought so highly of Warren Beatty before until I saw this one. Bulworth has some super funny scenes -Like when he starts rapping and acts like a nigga. But even when it wasn´t funny it was just...great. Right now I love Warren Beatty, I just hope that he can make a movie nearly as good as this one again. Rating 10 / 10     "},{"Title":"Slightly flawed, but yet extraordinary.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth is about a democratic senator from California, during the 1996 presidential campaign. Bulworth, played by Warren Beatty, is your stereotypical Hollywood politician, greedy, uncaring and finding a kick back any place he can. However, he finds his life spiraling out of control and decides to commit suicide. How? He takes out a contract on himself since it would look better in the eyes of the press and public.Evenutally, he falls for a young woman named Nina, played by Academy Award winner Halle Berry and spends much of the final hour of the film trying to call of the contract. However, he has angered so many special interest groups, who knows who may be out to gun him down by act three. "},{"Title":"not a bad movie","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  bulworth isn't a bad movie. it's amusing in some  scenes,but never laugh-out loud funny. it also drags oftenwhich keeps it from scoring real high. but there still are some good,memorable scenes,but an unnecessary ending. i give bulworth **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Beatty - Stuck in the 70s","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bulworth has an excellent premis, skewering political parties, their flaks, bagmen, and benefactors.  It could have/should have been to the political scene what Network was to television.  But no, Beatty is stuck in the 70s, and the early 70s at that.  Urban blacks are all noble and pure, and white businessmen totally corrupt and evil.  And what traits does Beatty applaud?  Drugs, sex, and rock-and-roll.  The only thing Beatty hasn't misplaced from 1971 is that the rock-and-roll is hip-hop and rap.  Everything else about this movie is right out of a time machine. Egotistical, cliche'd, and self-indulgent.  Totally a mess.  "},{"Title":"See It With Shampoo and The Parallax View","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Viewed this for the first time on HBO and found Bulworth to be a thought-provoking fantasy/comedy that makes me want to see it again with Shampoo and The Parallax View as part of a triple feature.  Underlying the ironic and frequently laugh-out-loud humor is a message that Warren Beatty seems comfortable delivering -- Our destinies may be in the hands of Big Business and Big Government, but that doesn't mean that we can't get out and enjoy life, and maybe even take a shot at improving those destinies. As I watched the end credits of Bulworth, I remembered that I'd sat in the theater and felt mesmerized as I watched the end credits of the other two Beatty films.  It was equally impressive for me on second viewing. Considering many of the negative comments I've read about Bulworth on IMDB, I'm left to wonder whether this is a great film or whether it helps to have a liberal bias to enjoy Beatty's filmmaking.   "},{"Title":"Crazy,funny,and heartbreaking.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have never seen a movie like this,and I didn't really mean to see it,I taped it on my VCR by mistake. I feel grand that I did see it,though.The movie is full of stereo-types,and foul-foul words,but when you get past all of that,the film is trying to tell all of us about ourselves.The movie is real in every sense. You people should watch this movie. "},{"Title":"If only the message would inspire the electorate.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie, inspirational in a way. Warren Beatty certainly proves his mettle once again.. Many a laugh but more than that, many indigestible bits to ponder. It is true, the voters no longer determine their destiny. It is the fat cat corporations that run the show. And we are lead along as if on a leash. I have often thought that God's purpose for putting us on earth is just what the movie suggested, namely, complete intermarriage and the melding of the races. Then color would be of no concern, once everyone goes along with the idea. This movie spurs me on to bigger and greater heights. Thanks, Warren. "},{"Title":"Thanks, Warren","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For two hours, I enjoyed being in Jay Bulworth's world.  It was a helluva ride.  The movie has a lot to say and it was all funny and thought-provoking.  I think Warren Beatty is an underrated director; with the exception of Reds, I have enjoyed all his movies.  The cast is exceptional, especially Oliver Platt and Don Cheadle.  Look for silent cameos from Hart Bochner & William Baldwin.  "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is funny, but you need to have some sort of understanding of America's political status to enjoy most of its jokes. As most of the reviews here tell you, you should give the film a try. Even if you end up disliking the movie, don't go around telling other people not to watch it. Let them decide for themselves!I'd like to add on to Jgfoot's review of Bulworth. The entire movie was meant to be exaggerated. None of this really happens in the real world. All of the film's characters were just jokes, mockeries of their real-life counterparts. The fact that Jgfoot didn't see this is completely baffling to me. Like he/she missed the whole idea behind the movie. Jgfoot states The rest of us see a movie full of grossly exaggerated characters and story twists that are so implausible that it robs the film of any claim to making a serious political statement. This statement makes me think Jgfoot is out of touch with the rest of us. Exaggerated characters? Implausible story twists? Well duh. When the character of Nina goes into a big speech about how the lack of blue-collar jobs in the inner-city black communities helped halt the creation of new black leaders... then finishes her speech.. you ARE supposed to laugh. And no, it's not a oh God, that could never happen in the real world. This movie is so stupid laugh. It's all part of the movie! Drug dealers going on about how ignorant politicians are, the limited liabilities of his business? Drug kids befriending a white man after some ice cream? A politician that does something that resembles the behavior of human beings? It shouldn't take a liberal looking glass to see that all of these things are MEANT to be implausible.   "},{"Title":"Warren Beatty for President (Shirley can channel the voters)","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Be prepared to cry through your laughter here, as Beatty reminds us of how totally impotent we are as voters today.  He shreds the public facade of both major parties, telling it how it is but in a way that's funny.  To watch a white man do rap is absolutely hilarious.  You will want to send $50. to him to persuade him to run just as a protest 'vote'.Haile Barry is one good-looking and acting woman, as she lectures Beatty on the reason there are no black leaders today of the stature of Martin Luther King or Thurwood Marshal. It will make you think of some of the side effects of losing the blue collar industry to other lands that the U.S. is colonizing. He reminds us of what a democracy could be, but the movie is entirely too subtle about the motivations of his killer. See this several times, along with '1984' and regain your enthusiasm for what our democracy could actually be if we did such small things as implement election reform, and one-payer medical care. Yes, it's Socialized Medicine.  The words are said.  Coming from Hollywood, it was quite a shock. "}{"Title":"One of the best political movies of the 1990's.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Bulworth' is a satirical joy! It uses humor to address some serious issues, but it is not all 'fun and games'. There is a dark undercurrent which pierces through the story. I felt it was overlooked and under-rated when released in theaters. Nevermind the age difference between the romantic leads. In this case, it's really not important. Just give 'Bulworth' a chance and see one of the best political movies of the 1990's. "},{"Title":" This file can ONLY be enjoyed by those in sync with Beatty's politics","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hated this movie in-toto.The ice cream cone scene made my stomach sick. Those who find merit in that revulsive scene are not merely detached from reality.  You have to be detached from reality and proud that the real world eludes you. Sort of like cast-iron blinders that permit only the strange images that fall through the PC filters will be permitted.I can understand why Beatty with all his wealth, women and cloistered reality is so detached from the actual world. What's the excuse of the viewers of Bulworth who find a shred of reality in that awful scene? People like that scare me. "},{"Title":"I think Beatty could have gotten his message across in a better and funnier way.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I realize there is a lot of truths in this movie, but did Beatty have to do it acting like an imbecile?  I really felt he put down the intelligence of the African-American people even if this wasn't his intention. I think this movie would appeal more to some teens who seem to like movies with a lot of stupid silliness. I guess that is why the Austin Powers movies do so well. "},{"Title":"Something's happening here","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found a single copy of Bulworth on the shelf of my local video shop the other day, hidden by the massed ranks of blockbusters.  I had missed its all too brief cinema release, so I gave it a small screen viewing.  What do you know?  Warren Beatty, icon of the&#133;  er, 60s? 70s? 80s?  writes, directs, and produces a pearl in the last months of the 90s.  Why, he even writes and sings his own soundtrack.  That last bit may seem a little too much, but fear not.  Beatty raps his way through self-consciousness to plug his seemingly unique political message with a warm humorous delivery.  Sock it to 'em WB!Within a couple of days Warren had announced his intentions on the White House.  Funny old world.  The interest might even prompt a second copy of Bulworth to appear on the shelves.  Nah!  It could never happen,Ron  "},{"Title":"Dissed by trailer, loved the film!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  See this film.  We rented the laserdisc, and fortunately it contained the original theatrical trailer used to advertise the film - and helped me remember why I DIDN'T see this film when it was in theaters.The trailer/commercial gave me the impression the film was about abusive philandering politician (which real life last year already had enough of).  What we discovered was that the movie really had a comedic side! The trailer did not tell us this guy was on edge and Beatty played the jumpiness hilariously!There was also an appropriate use and mix of hip-hop and more classical music, which followed Bulworth's transformation, so you both watch and hear him transform during the film.Finally, there was a clever script device used to make the movie a little more than even thought-provoking - it is action-provoking.Rated this 9/10 because I was left with was wishing Beatty had written more in the script to give depth to Halle Berry's character - a little more of why she was who she was.  But, I recommend this film to anyone who wants politicians to tell the truth. "},{"Title":"Very funny satire","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one had us laughing out loud all through the movie.  But it's not just a shallow slapstick comedy, it does contain a good dose of satire, criticizing the political system.  Sometimes it goes a bit overboard (the rapping Bulworth is a bit much at times) but overall a great movie. "},{"Title":"Good film;  I think a lot of people didn't get it","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now, I'm not _completely_ sure that I myself got it, BUT ... here is my take  the point of this movie is to carry some ideas, move them along with some exaggeration and big-bold metaphors, and be entertaining along the way. I personally very much enjoyed the rap sequences.  It's obvious they were _meant_ to be awkward and goofy and dorky.People have criticised the ending, but it just struck me as an acknowledgement by the filmmakers that the whole thing was known to be an exaggerated fantasy, and that it could never really happen that way.  A politician is only the tip of his quite expansive and controlling iceberg. From the first time that such out-of-control behavior was even sniffed on a pol, his/her handlers would be on top of the situation toot-sweet, and we'd never get to see him/her erupting like Bulworth did at a fundraiser, much less becoming a big sensation that's sweeping the nation.Some have criticized the foul language, but I think they're just fogeys and ninnies.On another note, I agree with another reviewer that this film was marketed very badly.  But then again, it prolly just goes to proving the film's very points.Anti-PC zealots seemed to have seized on the trailers' telling-off-the-black-fokes feel, and were hoping for more of the same. I was glad to see that they were sorely disappointed.And then we have knee-jerkers whining about Bulworth's tirades being too conspiracy-theory.  Hey, self-deception is the biggest conspiracy human beings have got going, haven't you heard?Anyway, those are my thoughts.  Take 'em for what they're worth... "},{"Title":"I was surprised!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At the prospect of seeing an aged Warren Beatty playing a politician, I wasn't thrilled.  But somehow I got suckered into renting this film.  And now I'm glad I was!  Political films, unless you REALLY like politics, can be downers.  And although they state, by way of Warren Beatty's pen, many pretty heart-breaking truths about our political situation, it was a film that certainly captured my attention.  Halle Berry adds another element entirely to the film, along with her family and friends.  It could have easily been a stale political bashing, but Mr. Beatty comes back at you with some suspense that certainly kept me guessing.  I say bravo to Warren Beatty! 8/10  "},{"Title":"Through the liberal looking glass","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An eye-opening view of the world as it must appear to the rich liberal white class that Beatty finds himself in.  Here is a world where homeless people are fonts of sage wisdom, teenage drug dealers in South Central will coo and smile as long as a nice white man buys them an ice cream cone, and black drug lords are laudable father figures because they actually care about their kids and are able to make profound speeches about -- are you ready for this -- the importance of educating our nation's youth.A movie with messages?  Maybe if you're a liberal high school civics student who has never read a copy of The Nation yet.  The rest of us see a movie full of grossly exaggerated characters and story twists that are so implausible that it robs the film of any claim to making a serious political statement.  I can believe that a lobbyist would work hard to kill a bill; I can't believe that a lobbyist would order a hit in order to accomplish that. "},{"Title":"Anything for money","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a pile of rancid dog dung this movie is. It starts out insulting the intelligence of every entity known to man and never lets up right up to and including the cop out ending. Beatty will do anything for money, I suppose. "}{"Title":"A well executed devastatingly simple concept.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bravo to Beatty.  A devastatingly simple concept  A politician telling the truth.  Political social commentary can also be good fun, as Beatty proves with this film.  Quality job.  I hope this film proves to be a future classic. "},{"Title":"Good movie but silly ending","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an enjoyable flick in a Michael Moore kind of way. But the ending (which I will not give away) was conspiratorial to such an Oliver Stone degree that it kind of negated the purpose of the whole enterprise. "},{"Title":"The Candidate still leads as the best political satire ever made.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found Bulworth (**1/2) wildly uneven.  Its best moments were contained in the coming attractions which showed the burned-out politician bluntly telling various well-heeled lobbying groups the unpleasant truth about the unholy alliance between politics and campaign contributions.  In fact, all the press conference scenes were very funny.  Oliver Platt steals the film as Bulworth's harried campaign manager, always trying to keep up with his boss's many behavioral transformations.  Beatty's Bulworth reminded me of Peter Finch as Howard Beale in Chayevsky's Network in the way he begins to sound more like a mouthpiece for the author than a consistently believable character in his own right after he has a breakdown.  Where does insanity leave off and truth-telling begin?  In both films it's hard to tell. Bulworth's newly acquired talent for rapping and partying with black gangsters in South Central appears to come out of nowhere, and I could have totally done without his relationship with Halle Berry.  I found it overly sentimental, and in one puzzling scene, she suddenly rattles off a speech on why there are no contemporary black leaders that makes her sound like more like a political science professor than a girl from the 'hood.  Maybe this is a clumsy attempt to counteract the blatant black stereotyping of so much of the film.  The assassination subplot gets muddled as well, especially in an ending which left me feeling totally let down.  This has it moments, but ultimately it's a big disappointment. "},{"Title":"A very intelligent, funny movie","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty is to be commended.  He wrote a very funny script (which I think was probably partly an expression of his personal politics) and acted out a well-developed, frequently moving character.  Many people have found his 'rapping' annoying.  On the contrary, I found those scenes very funny (complete with his girl groupies) and the scenes at the rap club are pretty hilarious.  The direction isn't particularly noteworthy, but it does the job.  The script is the real achievement here.  It's full of sarcasm, satirical political truths, and some very funny one-liners to boot (Well, I'm not sure you can get AIDS by burning your house down, but I see your point.).  The acting is uniformly good, though Beatty really shines. Halle Berry is also very good as Nina, and their relationship, in spite of the noteworthy age difference, is quite sweet and believable (unlike, say, Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones in 'Entrapment'; now that was just sad). The ending of the movie is a bit confusing and profound, but personally I can't really think of a better one.  See it.   "},{"Title":"People might appreciate it more if they understood it","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first two times I saw this movie, I thought it was an entertaining, intelligent film, but the ending eluded me.  When it came out on video I rented it and finally understood what message Beatty was trying to send. The issue of the homeless man saying you got to be a spirit not a ghost, was slightly confusing, but I believe it means that Bulworth as a Senator must be like the black politician and not the white one.  Black politicians during this century have had a huge impact on our country.  Those such as Martin Luther King have had impacts on us even after their deaths.  They act as spirits not ghosts.  White politicians this century have simply died, and become ghosts, their memories exist only on paper.  Bulworth had a huge impact on the people, he was what resulted in a politician who decides for an end to bull***t and lying.  In that way he was revolutionary, and in that way he was like the black politician.  The whole movie is complicated and I think the typical viewer might not like it because it is different to understand.  However, I think more people understood they would see that it is very well done. "},{"Title":"nice & ballsy","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  very funny. very shrewd. very straight. warren beatty has always been one of the smartest & funniest people in hollywood. this is a super piece of work. as for halle berry, well there have been black male superstars but as far as i know no female black superstars. to my mind this woman is a super super star. shame on hollywood. (once more). "},{"Title":"Tired. Boring. Repetitive","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy, how did this movie ever get made and released? Warren Beatty attacks all the rich and powerful people in the U.S.A. Well, I think it got made because Warren Beatty is rich and powerful. Hollywood and Washington have been at war for mindshare in this country for a long time. This is just another battle in that war. Save yourself the 90 or 100 minutes. I saved myself about 45 minutes because I turned it off in the middle "},{"Title":"Drop the worth and add an l","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title of this film is misleading. It should have been titled Bulworthless or just plain Bull. The premise is a good one a politician with nothing to lose tells the truth and becomes an immediate success. Beatty's tasteless handling of the material, however, made it one of the most excruciatingly idiotic films I have ever sat through--an insult to its audience. How this film could have been nominated for anything appalls me. Has the Warren Beatty who starred in and directed Reds lost it?  "},{"Title":"a hard-to-watch piece of unclear preaching","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was just another example of the overly-cynical 90s, coming up and biting us in the butt.  Beatty's character spends the whole movie complaining about the awful bureaucracy of American politics, but the best solution he could come up with was taking a little away from the rich and giving it to the poor and implementing socialized medicine, like the Canadians.  Anybody else feel like turning the film off at this point?  I don't know about you, but I'm sick and tired of listening to people complain and be cynical about the world we live in, when they have no real suggestions as to alternatives.  I PITY those of you who praise Bulworth for having such strong messages.  These are the same messages that we're bombarded with every day on TV, in the papers, and in our schools. Bulworth's message is tired; its solution already proved a failure hello? socialism doesn't WORK, Mr. Beatty...a little bit of racism in American politics ain't NOTHIN' compared the corruption you find in Communist governments.Surprisingly, I was able to tolerate the white-guy-rapping thing, because if some whacked-out middle-aged politician was to do what Beatty's character does in the film, his rapping probably wouldn't be much better.Bulworth had its moments, but overall, though, I have to give it a barely-passing grade.Lets not forget that the film inadvertently stereotypes blacks, even though one of its major themes is the elimation of racism...this is a very BAD thing when it comes to films -\In the end, Bulworth is a disappointing, failed attempted at a preachy love story with a terribly unsatisfying plot.Pass on this one. "},{"Title":"Different.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't really know what to think of Bulworth. It's supposed to be a comedy I guess, but by the time it's through, it becomes a serious drama. Warren Beatty tackles a controversial subject, it just seems to fall short. Watching Beatty rap is another story all together. I was embarrassed for him. This film is worth a look.  "}{"Title":"Funny, satirical, intelligent","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was really good.  The comedy writing was really funny, but handled with intelligence, and the political satire was dead on.   Didn't come off preachy, actually, it came off as fun.  Got a few messages across in the process.  Although I like stupid comedy as well, it was refreshing to laugh at some intelligent comments hidden in the comedy.  Really well written, acted and directed by Warren Beatty.   "},{"Title":"Bulworth Was Bull****","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a painful waste of time.  It is the cinematic result of Warren Beatty giving himself a big ego massage.First of all, there is no believable portrayal of the Warren Beatty character being depressed enough to be suicidal.  What makes it even tougher to feel sorry for this character is the fact that he's an over-privileged middle-aged WASP.  The film depicts no good reasons for his character to be depressed, or to be so deeply interested in black culture - either of which would have added credibility to the movie overall.The next clue that this is just Beatty having a mid-life crisis in real life, and therefore wanting to make something artsy and with a message is the lighting in this film.  Every scene is lit as though it's dusk, with a lot of contrast, and with beams of light spilling into scenes where they would not normally be; most notably across Beatty's face in almost every shot.  He is constantly a little bit over-exposed, undoubtedly for the purpose of blending out the wrinkles that surgery hasn't been able to get rid of.The tired scenes of the supposedly depressed Beatty whooping it up with the black folks go on and on, and his rapping is atrocious and an embarrassment to watch.  As another writer in this forum commented, there is an incredible amount of racism surrounding the filmmaking - the stereotypical clothing, the only really desirable female is the one who is so light-skinned she may as well be white - the others are only fun aunt-Jemima re-inventions; the ghetto drug dealer is so moved by Beatty's character that he decides to lead a neighborhood clean-up - what a waste of some of these talented cast members' acting abilities!Beatty is the center of every scene, always acting drugged out and messed up, rapping it like it is to the delight of all of the supposedly down-to-earth people, and to the shock but benign spetatorship of all the suits.This film could have been a poignant farce into today's political climate - a treat that is ever so lacking in such a good economy.  But I guess we'll have to go back and watch Bob Roberts again for that - because this movie is a complete dud. "},{"Title":"I hope Steven Spielberg saw this movie...Warren Beatty has got soul!","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a movie nut. I just love to watch movies that are well constructed in all areas, tight plot, capable cast, good music, location settings, and unforced direction.Bulworth was much more than an entertaining filming to me. This film is one of the VERY few films by white directors that ACCURATELY provides a brief, close-up view of black life in the inner city. For a majority of black folks living in the inner city, politics don't mean sh**.  Beatty understands this fact and speaks on it.Beatty tells it like is REALLY is, American politics is crap, its the truth, you can tell by how many Americans vote...not very many.I liked EVERY aspect of the film,The Ennio Morricone score - combined with the rap music - is a stroke of genius. The black characters in this film were accurately portrayed The political scenario is how things ought to - but never will be in America. I think Beatty is asking all of us to be a spirit, not a ghostI think Beatty used the homeless guy to ask us, the filmwatchers, to become more involved in our communities, to do the right thing. In the film Bulworth got through to the gangsta. He changed his life, stopped slinging drugs; he became a spirit not a ghost.- I must admit, I find that I have been influenced also. Thank you Mr. Beatty.  "},{"Title":"Love it or leave it","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When it comes to comedy you either laugh or you don't. It is not a very logical thing. I did not laugh when I saw Bulworth (in fact cringed is more like it) and while it is not easy to explain why, I'll give it a shot.This film begins with a politician dealing with depression and suicidal thoughts. But it does not stay there long. It quickly moves into a Ted Kennedy meets the Wayans brothers mode or more to the point Ted Kennedy tries to become one of the Wayans brothers or Ice T. Now this is outrageous and isn't outrageous always funny? Not for me. Characters need some consistency even in a crazy comedy. (This is done very well in Something About Mary.) The Bulworth character unfortunately is all over the map.Next we move to the ghetto. We see pathetic attempts to understand the plight of black people. But the cliches get much worse for Bulworth as it continues the time honored tradition of the 60 something actor falling for the 20 something love interest.Last but not least Warren Beatty throws us one more, out of date, 60's liberal message. When things get complicated bring in the conspiracy theory! (By the way, I am also a liberal but I have grown up.)This film was so painful at times that I was laughing at it in disbelief. Several times I thought, can't a fine actress like Halle Berry, who is as good as anyone could be in a film like this, find a better picture?In fairness, Beatty seems to have targeted his movie to the under 30 audience and probably doesn't care much what mature viewers think. As a teenage political film, Bulworth seems to be popular and a tiny bit sophisticated which deserves some credit. Beyond that, forget it.  "},{"Title":"Mickey One gets rich and powerful","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was probably prejudiced against this movie by having read Mr Cranky's list of  things that hearing Warren Beatty rap is  more painful than.  That part was pretty painful, I admit.  The other thing I didn't like about the movie is the  unthinking racism that runs through it. The black drug czar with an army of kids dealing for him turns into a say-fellas- let's-clean-up-the-neighborhood kind of guy after merely being exposed to the  saintly white senator.  Please.  But the movie almost makes up for it with its air of jittery paranoia.  In that one respect, it reminded me a little of Beatty's '60s classic, Mickey One.  Also, it's a hoot seeing Amiri Baraka in a recurring cameo as a street poet.  Over all, I'd give Bulworth a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A vastly underappreciated film","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First and foremost, I must address those who have the audacity to trash such a great film.The constant complaints that it was not a sidesplitter of a film makes it painfully clear to me that most people that watch modern films suffer from severe brain-cell deficiencies.Bulworth is a GREAT movie for several reasons.(1) It actually has a purpose and a message. Wow! Imagine that! Modern American cinema that actually has something to say!(2) It IS funny, if you know enough about politics to appreciate the humor. I'm sure people expected some kind of no-brainer white-guy-becomes-Dr. Dre comedy after seeing the previews. You have to have a working knowledge of the subject matter to enjoy a movie like this. This is why people who know approximately nothing about Shakespeare don't find Shakespeare In Love amusing.(3) Great acting throughout the cast, with the exception of a fairly weak performance by Halle Berry. Go figure.(4) Warren Beatty really showed some brass by throwing in some of the stereotypes in this film, especially the ones regarding Jews and blacks. I have to commend him for having this kind of nerve.Overall... a very good film. Check it out if you've got a brain. "},{"Title":"As we stand on the doorstep to the new Millennium...","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that Bulworth was one of the funniest and most well written movies to date. Warren Beatty did an astonishing job in this film, a little too good now that I think of it. But really, this film attacked all aspects of life in the united states, welfare, blacks, whites, lying politicians, sleazy businessmen, all of it. It truly was one of the most ingenious movies ever to be created, and the fact that they got Warren Beatty to rap through the whole thing, that was a hoot. But in all honesty, I would have to say that if you have not seen this movie yet, go see it, you'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Well done Mr Beatty","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sneak-preview in Cinecitta, Tilburg, The Netherlands. The film is surprising, funny and with a message. There´re still several talented Hollywood producers. A master-piece.  "},{"Title":"Politics as it really is","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bulworth was the most under-rated movie of 1998.  Beatty- who I don't usually like-- showed both comic and dramatic flair in this film.  I have seen it 3 times and each time I watch it I appreciate the brutal honesty of it all.  Except for the romance being unlikely, the rest of the movie is well done- his staff is played to the hilt- including their duplicity when things start working.  Beatty should have received a nomination for something- screenplay or best actor.  This is a film that shows what hypocrites rich people are the true divisions is rich against the poor not the blacks against the whites.    "},{"Title":"Comedy/Satire that throws some great punches, but pulls a few, too.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow!  It certainly was unusual.  Definitely a worthwhile movie, especially if you hate political correctness.  If only Beatty had gone all the way.Beatty's character, a U.S. Senator, slams (by name) avaricious oil companies, lambasts the entire health insurance industry, accuses a predominately Jewish movie industry of money-grubbing, and portrays politicians as venal, corrupt cronies of the moneyed class.  It is wonderful to hear him deliver the hilariously vacuous lines that are so typical of self-described leaders of the community - e.g., let us move forward...together...My fellow Americans/Californians/New Yorkers, etc.... What a hoot!  He doesn't spare himself, either, accurately depicting himself as a yellow-toothed, half-dessicated, morally-impaired, middle-aged failure. It's all great fun.  But he pulls his punches by not allocating to the Negro/Black/African-American/(nextSub-Saharan-American!) population the same level of scorn that he heaps on himself and everyone else.  What a cop out!  Worse, it's condescending.Having said that, I think anyone looking for something other than a pleasant evening at the movies should see this one if it is still around.  It's got a rough, unpolished energy that is admirable.  It tosses stereotypes around with abandon, but it's nice to be able to do that in this day and age.  Go see it.  "}{"Title":"No, it's not exactly what I expected either","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who went to see this film based on its trailers--and who was then, predictably, disappointed by what s/he saw--should consider her/himself an absolute, and willing, buffoon.I do believe that this film was mismarketed, and woefully so.  Appealing to the lowest common denominator, the trailers showed us aging white Warren bustin' moves/rhymes and talkin' jive.  One would expect, by all accounts, the typical scenario  high falootin smart guy makes ass of himself or, equally, white guy loses marbles and believes he is black.  Great idea, apparently, according to those who bought into the ads.  I had no interest in seeing Bulworth when it was first released, and only gave it a chance on video since virtually every review I'd read recommended it.As it turns out, Bulworth was totally misrepresented by the trailers, which is a shame because it is a much better, much more intelligent film than it would have you believe.  There are some very dark, quite substantial elements to it that one might not expect.  And I'm not referring to the obvious seedy underbelly of politics and socio-economic superstructures--of which we are all, of course, aware.  Bulworth is much more than simple social criticism.   At the core of the film is Bulworth himself--and it is indeed the human element which redeems what could have been a cold, bloodless and unremarkable movie-as-statement (as in Wag the Dog). Bulworth is about a man and about the essential decisions he makes (not just the bizarre behaviour he exhibits), and is, at its heart, deeply existential.The writing is excellent, the pacing is effective and Beatty's performance is strangely compelling.  The love-story sub-plot is perhaps the least successful component (Halle Berry is not entirely convincing)--and the film very nearly shoots itself in the foot near the end--but, overall, this is a very satisfying and stirring movie-going experience (even on video).I would recommend Bulworth to everyone--especially those who have pre-conceived notions about it.  And to those who would decide to spend $8.50+ on a movie, based exclusively on its trailers, some advice  read a few reviews before you make that decision. "},{"Title":"Very Important Film","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So it wasn't perfect.  With all the polls being thrown at me constantly, telling me how popular the state of things are with the public today, I really needed to hear IN A BIG WAY that not everyone is buying it.  I don't. I agree with Bulworth 100% and it was an extremely satisfying release to see it on the big screen.  I gave it a 10 for that.  If Warren Beatty has a fan club, I'm joining.    "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty shows he has moved on from his early Director/Writer days (Reds etc) but is still thinking deeply about what is happening in the real world. Bulworth is radical in that telling the truth is always risky business and for the music alone this film should be huge.  "},{"Title":"I was totally shocked that this is a GREAT film!","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The comments on this board are all interesting and quite valid in their praise of Warren Beatty's gutsy take on American politics.  However, no one's made mention that this is film is also brilliantly crafted.  Beatty has made a film that balances dozens of well-etched characters in under two hours and made it move lightning fast.  The story never loses focus, is wildly romantic and is the first political film that is so gorgeous to look at--it's painted in lush, primary colors that made my jaw drop open with delight.It is fantastic and should have been honored with more Academy recognition.  "},{"Title":"powerful, funny film","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In his first movie in over four years, Warren Beatty comes in with a gem of a film that has a very funny way of exposing a part of american politics that we all know exists , but , we choose to ignore for the most part. The way in which Beatty portrays Bulworth is outstanding. It appears his character has driven himself crazy from the years of back room deals he and his office has been a part of and I think Bulworth has realized the negative way in which it has impacted different parts of the community that he represents. The way in which the film ends had me thinking that Joe Pendleton would be standing there with his sax and Mr. Jordan, pleading for a new body to continue his fight for the good of his people. We should all hope to see more of Beatty's brilliance on the screen. He most certainly still has it after all these years.  "},{"Title":"WOW!!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bulworth, along with The Truman Show, have to be two of the most bizarre SUMMER releases of the decade.  Case closed.  Even though this film has many flaws (two false endings, a bad ending, a few scenes that didn't make sense), it is still great to watch and quite memorable. One has to admire the gutsy, smart dialogue.  As well as many humorous, jaw-dropping, self- consciously outrageous scenes where Warren Beatty badly raps his campaign speeches.  Worth renting just for the speeches alone.  A reminder of how important the script is to a movie. "},{"Title":"Beatty at his best.","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The finest Beatty film I've seen. Positively brilliant. There were some awkward moments, yes, but overall this film should have had awards. Easy to see why it didn't have much success in the US! The ending why did it have to go THERE?????  "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a very funny satire on politics with Warren Beatty telling the truth. Platt & Berry are great support. I laughed so hard when he raps. Just hated the ending.Rating****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"taxpayer, taxpayers take it in the rear","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the smartest movies to come along in a great while, it's also very funny. Beatty's transformation from a suicidal senator on a campaign trail he no longer cares about to the life loving man who embraces urban hip-hop culture to the hilt is great. The best comedic moments are when Beatty is in his rapper mode, speaking in rhymes at campaign functions and tv interviews. A really great movie, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Loony Political Comedy Is More Important Under Glossy Surface...","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Warren Beatty's BULWORTH is the craziest political satire I have ever seen. It is actually more of a statement than a satire, touching on several important economic issues, most importantly the African-American place in our country. Beatty goes way over-the-top as California Senator Jay Bulworth, a man who is destroyed by the monotony of modern politics. He also happens to be up for re-election, so he tours churches, South Central clubs, and the ganglands around L.A., most of which are unplanned and infuriating to his staff, led by talented actor Oliver Platt. The statement is the question of whether or not free speech really exists in this country. Bulworth speaks his mind and what he really feels, but the consequences can be both enlightening or fatal. This is what the film is driving at.Beatty's performance is well-meaning and energetic, and he displays a good comedic sense in many of the speeches, but it is, at times, a bit contrived. You can tell he is putting his all into making Bulworth a crazy, paranoid prophet of the people. Halle Berry is the calm point of the movie. There is more to her than meets the eye. Most importantly, she is the centerpiece of the African-American realization of how Bulworth could really be the 'real deal' in regards to how he can help them economically. BULWORTH has many scenes in the hood, most extremely funny, but also brutally realistic. This, of course, is pure political fantasy.BULWORTH has a lot to say and does so in a lot of effective ways, but its outrageousness is sometimes its flaw. Sure, Bulworth says and does what we wish Clinton or Dole would do speak their mind relentlessly on the biggest public stage there is. But is this possible? Not really, the movie tells us. There are some great individual sequences, the best being Beatty and co.'s entrance into a South Central club. They are so out of place and Beatty assumes he's not, so laughs begin to ensue. The Oscar-nominated script by Beatty himself is fast-paced and the film is extremely well edited. It does not dwell on one point for two long and there is some method to Bulworth's demented madness. Basically, the message is government business as usual, no wildcards allowed, and the possibility of a leader who mires in free (and I mean free) speech rendered virtually impossible. If their were any politicians like Bulworth, the voting process in the United States would be a hell of a lot more aggressive. "}{"Title":"The Best Film of 1998!","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie rules! I absolutely loved it! Warren Beatty did a beautiful job. I think Bulworth is probably the best movie of the year, next to Primary Colors. If you have not seen this movie yet, go rent it right now. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1998!","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bulworth is one of the best films of 1998. It is a political satire on the corruption of American politics - and how the system of government that the Americans have constructed may have worked in the past but no longer does. It exposes those who wear the guise of sheep when inwardly are wolves simply after power and money as the embodiments of style without substance. Those who wear the spiffy suits of adults, in reality, behave like teenagers, competitive, self-assured, and aggressive.Apparently there are two major political parties in the U.S., who compete over power in teenage fashion and the film's underlying message is that they are the same in that neither of them is effective and free of corruption; it is the ENTIRE SYSTEM that is rotten. They are like two rooms in a house which is doomed to collapse, and everyone is busy arguing whether the red room or the blue room is better.Although there are many races of people in the U.S. (though to a lesser degree than here), the film focuses primarily on two - the white and the black, using the latter as the primary victims of a bankrupt system. The protagonist in the film - Senator Bulworth - played by Warren Beatty in the role of his lifetime, falls in love with a young woman played by Halle Berry, the most beautiful woman ever to grace Hollywood (next to Ingrid Bergman) and  who, incidentally, is half white. He goes berserk, fed up with political affairs, and adopts some of the nuances African-American culture. Unlike in Network, however , he doesn't seem to realise that he is mad as hell. He raps his political speeches dressed in a toque, shades, and shorts showing the people how adolescent the system is in reality. In a particularly memorable scene in the film, Bulworth is offered narcotics by young boys in a rough neighbourhood. He offers to buy them ice cream instead. A police car drives up and the kids are harassed by the police officer (an obvious reference to the Rodney King beating). But Bulworth defends them. When the officers finally realise who he is, they bow down in apologies.This is an extremely funny and intelligent film. As in all the classic comedic satires, scenes are often purposefully exaggerated adding to the hilarity. Bulworth is smart in that it advocates interracial marriage - something that obviously would have prevented many of the racial tensions in the U.S. had the Americans adopted it on a massive scale. The film also makes the viewer think deeply about systems of government and the fact that no one kind has so captured the hearts of the people that all are willing to flock to adopt it. Communism, fascism, democracy, monarchism, capitalism, and socialism all fail to serve the people - they are all about competition over power, control, and money. A brand new system is needed, and this is what one is led to realise through reading between the lines of this great film and through pondering the way in which the film ends. (9 out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Great themes, but something's missing","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a year of nostalgia and backward thinking, this movie takes real risks. It questions where our politics have led us, it takes on race as a central motivating factor in American life, and yet it fails.  I think the main reason is its central character.  Bulworth is a man suffering a nervous breakdown.  He has sold his soul, his politcal ideals, and for what?  A bogus life insurance policy.  This should make me really sympathize with him, but frankly, I could have cared less. In fact, the only characters in the film that I identified with were the two fly girls who become campaign groupies.  Bulworth needed more of that kind of soul, and then I would have bought its ideas, which are articulated very well.  Because it was a gutsy movie, I rated it a 7. "},{"Title":"If you don't appreciate this film, you need to either wake up or develop a soul.","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vastly more creative and comprehensive than the self-important Wag the Dog. A satirically constructive, structural masterpiece. The public owes this film greater recognition for its own sake. Thanks, Warren Beatty, for a very gripping and saving effort.See also, Natural Born Killers, Director's Cut. "},{"Title":"The political disease diagnosed, not cured","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Politics, it is said, is box office poison, but that hasn't stopped filmmakers trying to satirise the process. Recently on US politics we have seen Wag the Dog (where Life outdid Art shortly after the film was released), Primary Colors (based on a thinly disguised account of Clinton's 1992 rise to presidential candidacy) and now Bulworth.Warren Beatty's Senator Bulworth is a desperate political hack facing defeat in an upcoming California primary.Written, produced, directed and lead acted by Beatty, this could easily have been a self- indulgent wank from that equally despised species, the Limousine Liberal. Even though a limo does actually have a major supporting role and even though the script could not be described as unbiased, the discipline required for good comedy is maintained most of the time. The pace, fitting in with Bulworth's manic mood, is fast, there are people everywhere most of the time - the political life is portrayed as a kind of controlled nervous breakdown, with the participants never knowing what is going to happen next.The film is dominated by Beatty of course, who looks and acts a bit like Richard Nixon would have, had he been a Democrat. But there are good performances from Oliver Platt as Murphy the baffled aide and Halle Berry as Nina, Ms Stunning from South Central. There is also an ensemble of interesting actors in the ghetto but they don't generally get a lot of time to strut their stuff. Jack Warden, an actor of great presence, is wasted in a minor part as an aide- he would have been much better, say, as the assassin's agent.From this vantage point, the thought of a politician having to raise $10,000 a day just to fund his or her campaign is pretty horrifying - it is therefore not surprising that even liberal Democrats are in thrall to the orange growers, medical insurers and oil producers. Only 40-50% of Americans turn out to vote, compared with over 90% in Australia (which has compulsory voting) and New Zealand (which does not). Campaigning costs are much lower of course down under and there is some public funding. Yet Americans are still able to vote with their dollar. If it's true that business has subverted the political process business is still subject to the market, imperfect as it may be. What would Bulworth do about the problem anyway? The rudest word in the whole script socialism, is mentioned but once, and without elaboration. Is it sufficient to tell people what they apparently sense already? Perhaps if he were elected Senator Beatty would wind up looking rather like Bulworth before his breakdown. "},{"Title":"I'm going to break it to ya...","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't stopped rhymin' since I scoped this movie, bro! For sixty-somethin', Warren Beatty's word, dont'cha know? I digged the film, from Sean Astin to Oliver Platt, and Hally Berry, brother, man, is totally phat. The writin' and directin' is the best of the best. Its single nomination, bro, is totally messed. I was buggin' when I saw it, like I never was before, Oscarwise, the film, my friend, d-deserved far more. Chill. Go see it. I'm outtie, and I don't mean navels!   "},{"Title":"Promised, but didn't deliver","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though amusing at times, and occasionally thought provoking, this film doesn't take you anywhere, you're back where you started. Setting the film in the 96 primaries doesn't help either - it just underlines the fact that the events that take place did not change reality.Typical Hollywood 'young woman falls for much older guy' (why is it that 'The graduate' is as close as the female equivalent of this that we ever get?).Everyone raves about Beatty's rapping but what impressed me was how he looked in homey clothes. How they thought tenderising the crack dealer was going to work I'll never know.  "},{"Title":"A BLAST","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hilarious. I thought I was sick of Warren Beatty, but he is great in this. The movie kicks it into gear and really moves. Besides being funny, it tells it like it is about money in politics, and it does so in an in your face way that really gets the message across. It sure would be nice if some people in public office would get inspired by this movie to be more like Bulworth, although I guess that's not too likely. It has a liberal slant to it, but it's easy to ignore that and just go with the laughs.  "},{"Title":"A Let Down","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite approaching this much-hyped political satire with heightened expectations, I actually found it intensely annoying. This is not to say it's an entirely bad film.  It is well crafted, well scripted and, for the most part anyway, competently acted.As comedy, it had moments of brilliance, mostly involving the hyper-kinetic performance of the under-rated Oliver Platt (The Three Musketeers, A Time to Kill) as the harrassed political staffer.But this movie seeks to be so much more than comedy.  It has been sold as a poignant and brave political satire.  Mentioned in the same breath as Wag the Dog and Primary Colors, it is said to be a powerful assault on American political orthodoxy and its dependence on big money and preference for cliché over substance.We meet Senator Jay Billington Bulworth (Warren Beatty), a Californian Senator seeking re-election, in the middle of a nervous breakdown.  He is weeping uncontrollably in his suspiciously pokey office as he watches, over and over again, the Campaign TV spots with all their nauseating repetition and hollow, crafted `messages'.With the kind of subtlety that characterises the movie from start of finish, the audience is told`HE IS SICK OF THE LIES!'THE TRUTH WILL SET YOU FREE!There are twists and turns aplenty, even a car chase or two, and some incongruous sexual tension between Berry and Beatty (sorry, Waz, but in your dreams!).The movie's climax is hopelessly predictable.  In fact, I found myself impressed with the skill with which Beatty manages to squeeze every conceivable ounce of predicability into the ending.So what is annoying about this movie, apart from the `fingernails-on-blackboard' experience of sitting though the rapping and rhyming of Warren Beatty, possibly the whitest man alive?The movie is just nothing like it claims to be.As political satire, it is no more daring than `A Distinguished Gentleman', and far, far less so than `Primary Colors' or `Wag the Dog'.The influence of big business and lobbyists in American politics is hardly a revelation.  Hands have been wrung over this since `Mr Smith Goes to Washington' was released in 1939.That politicians are reduced to special interest whores by the demands of campaign finance is as well established a principle in movies as `all judges are black' and `every white southerner is an inbred racist'.The only daring proposition in the whole movie is that a rapping, ranting, cursing manic-depressive who trots out these lines will meet with massive electoral success.Tell Jerry Brown that &#150; and he almost acts sane.As a slapstick comedy, Bulworth almost works.But as a critique of the decay in American electoral politics, it has all the insight and subtlety of an episode of Spin City &#150; where at least we are spared Michael J Fox rapping at us.  "},{"Title":"Great fun.","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a must see for anyone who is disillusioned with the American political system. Seeing Beatty up on the screen rhyming truths against a rap beat is worth admission (or rental) price alone.A great script aided by worthy performances and a pumping soundtrack make Bulworth great fun.I was disappointed with the advertising campaign, especially here in Australia where it is doing bad business, as it did in the States. I thought the trailer made the film look like a 'Wag the Dog' or 'Primary Colors' political satire, which it is, but is also much more.If you haven't already, go see this film. "}{"Title":"99% excellent","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is a perfectly fine 3.5 or 4 star movie that is destroyed in  its last 30 seconds. The scene fades to black, excellent film, walk out! You'll be thankful. Those who wait will be disappointed to find their intelligence underestimated.Imagine if a narrator came on at the end of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, and told us what the moral of the story was.Other than this annoying ending which I won't go into any more Beatty's film is solid, entertaining, witty, and rather unbelievably believable. A couple of supporting players are relegated to stereotypes (like Oliver Platt's coke sniffing campaign manager), but overall the performances shine.Beatty plays a suicidal incumbent Senator who decides cut the crap and tell his constituents what he's really learned from the system on the last weekend of his campaign. Beatty's script is a great balancing act, never too preachy, and never feels like a passing excuse to justify the ridicule of minorities by setting up an in-joke with the audience (a la As Good as it Gets).  "},{"Title":"Great Satire","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most of us fantasise sometimes about kicking off the traces, going rank, forgetting the mortgage and going bush or whatever, and getting out of the rat race. I do anyway. But what if a politician did that! What if a high ranking American Senator got narked, went on a binge with the poor and then started to tell the truth about the bribes and inducements that shape the political process?Senator Bulworth (Warren Beatty who also wrote and directed the film) has just lost a lot of money, hasn't slept or eaten for days and has bribed an insurance mogul into writing him a huge insurance policy, swapping the policy for a decision favourable to the insurance industry. He then organises for himself to be murdered in the next few days. He's desperate. He's given up.But the next few days turn out to be liberating! Now that he's got the materialist monkey off his back he discovers the plight of the poor and has the opportunity to show moral courage. Having sloughed the political dirt off his soul he rediscovers the joy of truth and goes on a huge binge with a mob of the local poor blacks.He's ducking and weaving, fearful of the hitman, but has had a rebirth. He's rediscovered teenage idealism and has found that life has simple joys again.Bulworth isn't a dry hard political diatribe though. It's very funny and often surprising, especially when Bulworth begins rapping. He looks ridiculous in his long shorts, beanie and dark glasses. But I'd vote for him!The film had its genesis in the early nineties before rap music was adopted by commercialism and lost its credibility as a valid voice for the disaffected.  But in our twisted world it could be argued that the subversion of rap makes it an ideal vehicle for a Senator on the rampage, especially in the nasty nineties.That he's now a loose cannon insulting the Jewish film financiers, the insurance industry and everyone else with influence makes this film thoroughly engaging. Like all good fantasy it's a dream come true.There are some good signs though. That a film like Bulworth can be made at all shows that there's a lot of good money slooshing about as well as bad, because Bulworth  is fundamentally subversive. It takes a strong tilt at the establishment, even at one stage accusing the Jewish financiers of film of making their money out of  crap. Bulworth is a film asking for trouble from big money.The film industry to a large extent mirrors the community it serves. Bulworth along with the excellent Very Bad Things are both recently released films which have powerful American men cracking up, losing the materialist plot and breaking lose. Is our society really becoming that desperate? How long will the establishment be able to keep the lid on the tension they are creating by being so greedy?  "},{"Title":"The funniest, most original film of 1998","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would have definitely nominated this film for best picture and Beatty for best actor.  The script was absolutely brilliant and I do not think I have ever seen Beatty better.  It truly goes to show what can be done when an actor puts his whole heart into a project.  While some will be turned off by the political nature and ideals of the film, remember it is just a movie and unfortunately so.  It would be a nice change of pace to have politicians speak their hearts instead of what they feel will get them elected.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, with some drawbacks","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bulworth is one of the best movies of 1998, but it's also a colossal mess, drowned in its own ambitions.  It tries to incorporate so many themes and elements, from hip-hop diatribes to Shakespearean prophets, cocaine to suicide, celebrity walk-ons to police brutality--that it can only be a mess. Warren Beatty makes bleeding heart liberalism seem justifiable (think back--he made 'Reds', where the hero was a Communist), and he's perhaps the only director who could've made this, and the only actor who could have played the role.  Love it or hate it, it's a memorable screen experience.  "},{"Title":"Smart, but confused, political satire","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To experience Bulworth, is to experience one of the more bizarre films to come out of Hollywood in recent times, as it features Warren Beatty as a rapping politician, who while on the political trail, insults minorities and takes a satirical stab at American politics in the process. The narrative, for what I can remember of it, runs something like this. During his campaign for re-election, a depressed Jay Billington Bulworth (Beatty) takes out a large life insurance policy, which his daughter will cash in if he dies. Bulworth goes on to arrange a hit on his own life, giving him just under a week to live, and live he does! As he makes route across America, Senator Bulworth starts to speak the truth, which jeopardises his re-election campaign, in the process meeting a variety of people including a group of young black women who introduce him to the world of rap music. As the film progresses Bulworth realises that he doesn't want to die and attempts are made to stop the assassins bullet while continuing to rap his way into notoriety. As previously said, Bulworth is a fairly bizarre film, as the narrative seems to be very segmented, and doesn't quite add up to a whole at the inevitable conclusion. Having said this though, Beatty, with more practice, could have a profitable sideline appearing with Ice-T at concerts, as his rapping is worth the admission price alone. Supporting cast members include the reliable Oliver Platt as one of Bulworth's advisors and Halle Berry as the love interest. I have mixed feelings on this film, as it did make me laugh, but at the same time I left the cinema feeling disappointed that an opportunity to poke fun at &#145;the establishment' had been wasted on what could have been a great movie. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, and so on target","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wonder what real life politicians who saw this movie think about what Jay Billington Bulworth had to say about contemporary politics, because everything he said was so right that I just wanted to personally send a copy to every American political figure.  I can't believe how on target this film was about the current political situation.  It was a biting satire about the farce that is American politics as well as the corruption of our government, and I loved every second of it.  Sure, the Warren Beatty rapping was hard on the ears and (in my opinion) went on for a little too long, but the movie hooked me. The scene where he is speaking at the black church was hard to watch, but only because what he was saying...um...rapping, was so true that I found myself being kind of ashamed for thinking the government was as good as it pretends to be.  An excellent screenplay by Warren Beatty and an acting performance where he pulls out all the stops--it's plainly obvious how much he believes in what he is doing.  8 out of 10, and a 9.5 for Beatty's performance.  "},{"Title":"Outrageous, on-target, and hilarious","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for this film, I thought either this was going to fall flat on its face, or be one of the best films of the year. Fortunately, it was closer to the latter.  Warren Beatty should be commended for making a movie which takes so many chances when few movies do these days.  Some scenes don't work(like when he takes the black kids for ice cream; it seems patronizing), but most of them do.  Rap may have gone commercial, but it speaks more to the disaffected than any form of music these days, and Beatty does well to use it, even if he can't rap(which is part of the joke).  Oliver Platt is hysterical as Beatty's campaign manager, proving once again what a talented actor he is.  The rest of the cast is good as well.But what I really liked about the movie was not just that it was funny(though it was often hilarious), but that it was on-target in showing how politicians, particularly Democrats, have sold out.  The first speech Beatty makes at the black community church captures this clearly, especially the most prescient line of the film, where he asks them, What are you gonna do, vote Republican?  An important and great film. "},{"Title":"A serious film making serious social points masquerading as a fantastic comedy.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bulworth completely blew me away. I was expecting either a comedy with the odd bit of vacuous comment or a commentary with the odd bit of lame comedy. I was surprised to find a great comedy with real bite.This film managed to make me laugh out loud, rare in any setting, and still made me realise what an amoral place America can be, and make some heavyweight points about, among other things, Racial Discrimination, the funding of American politics, Governmental Intervention, or the lack of, Recreational Drugs, The Banality of American TV and corruption of certain Police Departments.This was a fantastic balancing act, and Warren Beatty as the Senator Bulworth is awesome. Even Halle Berry was good. If only all satire was this good I'd be a happy man.  "},{"Title":"Funny but with very profound comment on modern society","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty deserves an Oscar for the screenplay and for his acting.  The film's social message provokes serious thought. It puts its finger on serious problems within society and gets through to the audience by the masterly screenplay and the acting throughout and by the whole cast.  "},{"Title":"The Best Political satire ever","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is easily the best political satire ever made. The film's strengths are its script and Warren Beatty's performance. Yes, the raps are bad, but they're SUPPOSED to be. It's the content rather than the quality. Some of the social commentary is a little too close to the bone for me. intelligent moviegoers will love this film. See it. "}{"Title":"White Ghetto Superstar?  Oh yes...","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It could have been a marriage made in hell Warren Beatty, actor/director veteran, rapping and dancing to hip hop records.  A vain attempt to cling to his youth some may say.  But Bulworth is a razor sharp satire of the highest political order; and, for a mainstream film, is smart, funny, and seriously strange. The film opens with Senator Bulworth(Beatty) watching his own political broadcasts, and is on the verge of breakdown, having not slept or eaten for days.  As the primaries close in, he hires a hitman to assassinate him. Realising nothing matters he begins to tell the truth, saying to an all Black congregation that the Democratic Party doesn't care about the African American vote, as they contribute no money to the campaign. Soon enough, he regains his lust for life, and through the Halle Berry's character, his lust for sex too; and decides to call off the hitman.  The attempts to do this result in farce, and as his advisors despair, his popularity soars.  Shame all political runners aren't like Bulworth. Maybe not, but it's a nice thought.  The film is hilarious as Bulworth gets to grips with Ghetto culture, with sharp dialogue and some bizarre moments - including a scene where gang leader LD (Don Cheadle) explains the logistics of why children should sell crack.  But the underlying seriousness is never to far from the surface.   This is film-making at a high level. "},{"Title":"A briliantly directed film with a clear plot and direction.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is one of the best films of this genre. It mixes comedy with action and suspence. Unfortunately it had a very predictable ending, but don't all films? It also reflects the real time stress of being a high class Senator (Politition in Britain)The film did seem to drag the same story along for a little longer than it should have. But it had enough perks to keep it alive, which is the main reason why I scored it so highly. It was funny, sad, emotional and true to life all wraped in the same plot. This is a truly brilliant film, but be careful, it's a film for you and your mates, not your partner. "},{"Title":"One of the most thought-provoking political films to date","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I DEFINITELY recommend this movie to anyone who has a serious intellectual desire to learn more about politics and to have their 'programmed' ideas thwarted or at least to question them - watch this movie.  Entertaining and funny while bitterly satirizing the entire system!  I have virtually nothing negative to say about this film.  I went to see it thinking it would be boring and the jokes would be dumb, but I was completely and totally wrong. I'm surprised this movie hasn't gotten more publicity.  EXCELLENT film.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, but exaggerated at many times","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was definitely a brilliant movie.  It dealt with the important current political issues in a bold, humorous, and unprecedented manner.  As well, Warren Beatty is absolutely perfect in his role, and as the movie progresses, you begin to love his spontaneous rapping.  The only thing that bothered me is that they lingered on certain points way too long, and they ridiculed Senator Bulworth so much that I find it completely unbelievable that he would be re-elected to the Senate by such a landslide. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest -and one of the absolute best- movies I've ever seen.","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Warren Beatty did a masterful job of embedding some very serious commentary on our society's social, political, and economic conditions in an extremely funny movie.  Whereas many movies confine themselves to making points about only one aspect of society, Bulworth manages to critique a whole host of them; so many that the movie should be re-viewed to be sure one catches them all.  And it's all done in such an entertaining fashion that you never realize that this is truly a heavy movie!  But the most amazing thing of all is that this movie blows the covers of so many powerful interests in society that it is a wonder that it was ever released!! "},{"Title":"Pop Politics","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A cookie-cutter politician finally has had enough, and rises from the establishment expectation and speaks his mind by using an irreverent, slightly vulgar, down-with-the people style of rhetoric. Whoa, is this the Donald Trump story? Or maybe it's the Bernie Sanders story? Bulworth was a shock-wave of a movie back in 1998, when American politics weren't straying far from it's disingenuous roots. Between the Clintons and the Bushes, it was as phony as ever. But today, Bulworth is more timely than it has ever been. Every politician right now is doing 'the Bulworth, even the creepily calculated Hillary Clinton. Art is imitating life once again. What was once a spit of fire in a quiet room has become a political revolution. On all accounts, this movie has every right to seem as excellent as I'm making it sound. But despite it's Nostradamus effect in terms of politics, everything else about it is dated. Warren Beatty does a decent job, but I can't really buy him as the rapping politician. He sounds like the granny from The Wedding Singer. He can't hang. The stereotypes of South Central LA are also in full force here, despite it's attempts at humanizing the community. Oh yes, the divide between classes and races is as big as they've ever been at this very moment, but the sophistication of the conversation has changed dramatically. It's a lot more complex now than 1998 had it, and so, to that extent, it's dated. The writing as a whole also loses it's edge slightly after an hour in, and becomes a series of romantic, political-drama conventions. I have to say, though, the very beginning and very end of the movie are fantastic. "},{"Title":"Nothing Funny Here.....","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Warren Beatty co-wrote, co-produced, directed, and was the star in this political satire/ comedy. He should have given the part of Bulworth to a slightly younger --and funnier actor.Beatty just isn't funny. When you see a movie that continually tells you about things that everyone knows (money in the U.S.A. is not fairly distributed)..and other social in-justices, it becomes tiresome. At times i felt I should have been laughing, .... but its so clever and so very witty --(and repetitive)), i just watched and watched. The relationship between Bulworth and Tina (Halle Berry)has ..zero..chemistry, and is a little ridiculous. This was NOT Berries finest hour !! The film walks the fine line between humor and politics. It is an average piece of work--strangely not funny--and easy to forget. "},{"Title":"An American Sentor gives up his seat to see the real America","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My friend didn't really like this movie all that much claiming that he couldn't really relate to the African-American subculture, but what I really think is that this movie is directed to minority people in general and is quite anti-corporate.The movie is focused around incumbent senator for California, Senator Bullsworth. The movie opens with him watching his campaign trailers and crying. It seems that the weight of his position has finally fallen on him. We learn that his wife really doesn't love him anymore and he has asked a hit-man to kill him. Suddenly he turns on the political system and begins to drag it through the mud. The first speech is at a Negro church and when he is asked questions, instead of giving a sugar coated non-committal answer, he tells them the truth. They have no money and thus do not matter. Soon he turns on the corporate sponsors, criticising their manipulation of the political system by throwing lots of money in the right direction.Thus senator Bullsworth throws away his lifestyle and delves into the Negro community. He attacks the corporations that run the nation and supports the under powered minorities. He even turns his teeth on the drug pushers, seeing them as evil pawns of the faceless corporations.Basically this movie is Bullsworth's epiphany. He wants to die at first, and with this he has his epiphany - the realisation before his death. Throughout the movie we know that he is going to die, because even though he is popular, he cannot get away with making the statements that he is making. He is being incredibly controversial, and such a stance can never last that long. It rocks the boat way too much and as such can't be allowed to succeed. In the America of the movies things cannot change too much, and in fact, if it has happened before hand, things will be set straight. I guess this then shows the tragedy of society, that when a saviour arrives, he will be killed, because those in power don't want to give it up. "},{"Title":"Political correctness be damned.","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Bulworth' is a brave film which I think is even more relevant now than when first released. What happens behind the scenes? Senator Jay Bulworth sees those string pullers and is sick of idiots being naive enough to believe they don't exist. What's a man who had noble intentions to do when he is reduced to cynicism? Hire a hit-man to kill himself. What to do while waiting for that trigger to be pulled? Ruin whatever credibility you might have gained in your thirty years of public service. Beatty is brilliant as 'Bulworth' who is a surprising hero. We root for this guy and feel devastatingly sorry for him. Why? He's really nothing but a tremendous jerk.(The scene where he tells an African American Church congregation to put down the malt liquor and chicken wings and support someone other than a running back who stabs his wife might be the most racist humor I've ever seen on film). 'Bulworth' is a film about self destruction but the beautiful thing about it is that Jay Bulworth intends to bring down bits and pieces of the establishment down with him. We feel sorry for Bulworth because we know he was someone who was an idealist and who has over the course of many years sold out. If he is to die why not go out in a blaze of glory? These bizarre outbursts on Bulworth's part are portrayed beautifully by Beatty. There is a brilliant mix of catharsis and madness in Bulworth who ends his racist tirade merely saying that was good with a breath of relaxation.The film isn't without it's faults. It's brave but there were moments I wanted it to go braver. Where do we want to lead Bulworth? It seems the more appropriate thing to do would be to bring Bulworth to a pinnacle of madness. Instead the opposite happens and Bulworth regains his senses in the form of a love interest. Why? What does this do? For one thing the relationship between Halle Berry and Warren Beatty seems tremendously awkward and forced. What would any woman see in Jay Bulworth? The man has obviously lost his mind. Furthermore Beatty was too old at this point to play a love interest in this fashion. Part of the charm of 'Bulworth' is that this man is supposed to be over the hill. I'm not saying a sexual subplot was uncalled for but not a genuine love story. Let Bulworth crash and burn. What would have been far more interesting is if they had explored Bulworth's relationship with his wife which is only a political marriage. Wouldn't it be funny for Bulworth to enact his frustrations on this woman who has become nothing more than an actress for his boring campaign commercials? I think so.'Bulworth' has a charm and it is very different. Not surprisingly my criticisms of it stem from the conventional moments. The scenes where 'Bulworth' spit in the face of conventional political norms are on par with some of the great political satires "},{"Title":"The Most Brazen and Over-the-Top, and Hilarious, of the Late '90s Political Satires","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What this satire on modern civic affairs boils down to is a politician who can no longer bring himself to repeat the phrase, America is standing on the doorstep of a new millennium. More times than he could possibly count, he has repeated the same empty Pavlovian signals, the same hollow BS, the same crap. Now he sits in his office, playing one of his dumb TV commercials nonstop. He has not eaten or slept in three days. He is sick to the black heart of the American political process. Bulworth isn't just comprised of the candidate making caustic jabs like an anarchist Jackie Mason. There's enormous significance in much of the dialogue, written by Beatty with a credit to the commentaries of American culture by such as Noam Chomsky. Beatty takes aim at the fable about how government is spendthrift and industry is effective by holding that government runs Medicare for a quarter of the expense scooped away by insurance companies for same quality health care. However, why don't we have national health care like every other First World country? Insurance payoffs, Bulworth is just too elated to announce.Warren Beatty's Bulworth makes me laugh, and cringe, and it does admirable work. It hits you that if all politicians were as forthright as Bulworth, the flimsy scaffolding of our system would crumble, and we would have to start all over again. Like its contemporaries Wag the Dog and Primary Colors, but much much more straightforwardly, the movie conveys that essentially everything expressed in public by a politician is spin. Spin control is only the term for spin they're called on. Bulworth is a former Kennedy liberal (like Beatty himself), an incumbent senator from California who is charged by an opponent as being old liberal wine trying to pour himself into a new conservative bottle. The humor to Bulworth is that liberal and conservative, Democrat and Republican, are no longer monikers that signify much, an illusion that has become an ever-deepening divide in the two parties since this film's release Nevertheless, when it comes to national health care, for instance, the insurance companies have had both parties at their beck and call.Bulworth is done for. He loathes his job and his life, and has recently misspent millions in the market. So he submits a contract on his own life and flies back to California believing he has three days to live. His approaching demise invigorates him with a sensation of abandon Finally he is liberated to say precisely what he thinks, and that's what he does. In a black church, he notes, Half your kids are out of work and the other half are in jail. Do you see any Democrat doing anything about it? Certainly not me! So what're you gonna do, vote Republican? Come on! You're not gonna vote Republican! Let's call a spade a spade! Bulworth's chief of staff, played in bleakly comic fashion by the great character actor Oliver Platt (oh where has he gone?), goes crazy and hits a fire alarm to end the church service. Though an hour later, in Beverly Hills, Beatty is offending a predominantly Jewish crowd of movie execs How much money do you guys really need? he asks, saying that they produce mostly crap. And so on. That was good. Really good, he says. He likes political speechmaking for the first time. Tagging along with Bulworth through his transformation is a clique of sexy young black women, who cram into his limousine and guide him to an after-hours club, where he tries hip-hop and drugs. Constantly drifting closeby is a captivating woman named Nina, Halle Berry, who later takes him home to her neighborhood, where he watches grade-school kids selling crack and is given a dose of the reality of families where everybody has lost someone to violence.The movie blasts in all directions. When Bulworth asks Nina where all the black leaders have gone, her response is as astute and persuasive as a year's plethora of editorials. Though when the movie depicts black culture as inevitably more genuine and honest than white, that's an excess impulse. The utility of blacks as hidden supplies of authenticity and honor is a tired cliché in white liberal soap-boxing. There is even an enigmatic old black man who trails Bulworth around, chanting abracadabra that, I think, is supposed to be cryptic worldly-wise maxims. It's better when Bulworth disregards political correctness and says what he believes, inconsiderate all the same, as when he suggests that the answer to racial hardships is for everybody to eff everybody else until we're all the same color.Bulworth is not a perfect movie, nor could it be. It's a little uneven and takes too many chances. I don't believe the love plot between Bulworth and Nina. It's a reprocessing of the long burnt-out movie cliché that a man in a struggle for his life can invariably find time, in three days, to fall in love with a woman half his age. However that particular charge is miniscule in comparison to the effectiveness of the rest of the film. Beatty tarries very close to home, and in the tone of the film as well as its Clinton-era contemporaries like Wag the Dog and Primary Colors, it epitomizes political problems in the US that since their time have grown into much different, much uglier problems. Bulworth works like a scream of agitated comedic mania. It's about a sort of prototypical figure who appears more and more to signify the cyclical American condition the guy who's mad as hell and isn't going to take it anymore. Interesting, how in the decades since we heard those words in Network, we've completely ignored why they were said. "}{"Title":"enjoyable with a flaw","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth cracked me up throughout. Bulworth speaking at the Black church is especially entertaining. Warren Beatty gave one of the best performances of his career. This is also a political film, which brings up a flaw.It is not by any means that this movie cannot forward a Liberal point of view. Beatty, like all Americans, has the right to express his beliefs. But I am an American as well, and I can express mine.The flaw is that the only person you ever get to hear from is Warren Beatty. Those who disagree with him are silent and ineffectual. One particular scene of note is Bulworth's television interview, in which he was supposed to debate others. Among them is Steve Forbes, and there is stock footage of Forbes just sitting there. Beatty went on a rant, took a dig at Forbes and the others, and Forbes is just seen being silent and impotent.To me, the true test of any political film is, are you willing to allow the other side to be articulate? In Spike Lee's Do the Right Thing, Lee's own view is made clear, but there are other characters offering counter-balance. Do the Right Thing is ambivalent, allowing viewers to sort out for themselves what is right. Even The Green Berets had a Liberal reporter following along.Bulworth is worth seeing, very entertaining, and its political views are worth considering, but it must be seen in the context of pushing one political view. Yes, Conservatives do it too, but they are not able to do it nearly on the level of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"I want a sequel","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of my favorites. I think it is under-appreciated and if it were up to me I would have produced a sequel by now. There were scenes in this movie that were so funny that I find myself quoting them on a regular basis. There were also some important political messages that were delivered with a great amount of skill and intelligence. Bullworth's two campaign directors were genius. Their dialog was great and their physical comedy was masterful. Halle Berry was of course at her top form and seemed very comfortable with the role. There were so many classic scenes that it is difficult to limit myself to just a few.I would like to see a sequel. "},{"Title":"The truth is out there, even in the political world.","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For years, it seemed like Warren Beatty was trying too hard to play handsome young men, despite his age. Bulworth totally vindicated him. He plays the title character, a right-wing senator who has a breakdown and starts singing rap songs that tell the truth about politics and the status of the black community. I mean the whole, unvarnished truth. Specifically, he calls for socialism.You say that a 60-ish white guy can't don a ghetto suit and sing rap songs? Maybe it sounds a little strange coming from him, but the truth's gotta come from somewhere. And that TV interview? A truly classic piece of cinema. I guess that this sort of thing could only come from Warren Beatty (most recently, he and Rob Reiner successfully encouraged California's voters to reject Arnold Schwarzenegger's proposals).All in all, Bulworth is a great movie. I just wish that this could happen with a real-life politician. Also starring Halle Berry, Sean Astin, Don Cheadle, Oliver Platt, Laurie Metcalf, Jack Warden, Paul Sorvino and Christine Baranski. Perfect. "},{"Title":"If all you care about is the message, this movie is for you. Otherwise...","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every once in a long while, a movie comes along with decent mainstream attention and yet speaks mostly to the punk and anti-establishment individuals.With nothing left to live for, a California senator attempts to drive his campaign into the ground by bluntly slamming politics, the government, the media, lobbyists, big corporations, and other things activist kids in college love to trash. Senator Bulworth's plan backfires though and his refreshing take on politics gains him popularity.His new connection with the quieted and abused minorities of America gives him new reason to live, and so a large part of the plot involves Bulworth tries to call of the hit he put on himself when he was suicidal. The plot is just an excuse to fill time between political commentary though, which is clearly the meat of the movie.It's a good premise too. It speaks against modern-day oppression and promotes truth in politics, as a radical notion. The way Bulworth makes fools of the rich, white majority empowers the viewer's sense of justice that truth prevails.Let it never be said though that a good premise means a perfect movie. Perhaps some might try to justify the rest of the movie in the name of a good message, but the movie has plenty of flaws.First off, although it's a satire, it still requires the viewer to suspend a lot of belief to buy some of ridiculous things along the way. For example how one man can do so many nonchalant things like smoke pot in public or making out with a woman who isn't your wife in front of reporters and not have his opponents pick up on it immediately and trash his record, or why his plans for the future are completely inconsistent with his actions in the past six years. Instead, all anyone ever asks is, What's with the new campaign style?The movie presents its side of the story as the ideal setup without any of the realistic repercussions or even the other side of the story. In fact, if it weren't for the fact that the movie is a comedy, it would be nothing more than a propaganda film. As it stands though, it is a comedy, and so one can't take *everything* seriously. It does provide some funny moments, such as any time Warren Beatty raps.Overall, it's a nice message. The audience it specifically caters for will eat the movie up like candy. The execution is decent but flawed. Worth a watch.  "},{"Title":"Bulworth 8/10","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes in life, a movie that's so blatantly odd comes along. A movie that has weird characters, an outlandish story, and just a weird overtone to it that you can't really help but like. Bulworth is one of those movies. Written by, directed by, and starring Warren Beatty, it's a genius invention of government and human nature. Although released six years ago, it could have become dated, but it still remains potent today.Senator Jay Billington Bulworth (Beatty) has decided he's fed up with the world and puts a contract on himself for someone to kill him. Because he has only a few days to live, he goes out like a bull in a china shop, not caring what he says, because soon he'll be dead. However, he feels good about going out on a streak of honesty, and decides he wants to live. He a) falls in love with a random woman named Nina (Halle Berry), b) has to find out who was going to kill him so he can stop it, c) continue his new, successful campaign of honesty, and d) rap everything he says.Before watching Bulworth, I was worried. From what I'd read previously, the plot sounded hilarious, but I feared that the movie would have a great plot and not go anywhere with it. I was wrong. Bulworth went in all directions, including some I wouldn't have been able to guess. One mistake, though, was being billed as a comedy. Unless it's like a Shakespearean comedy (where it's exactly like a tragedy except most people don't die at the end), it wasn't funny at all. The character of Bulworth was endearing, though, making him an interesting and entertaining character, one that makes the movie interesting.However, seeing Bulworth become more and more less like a normal politician, there's nothing more entertaining. This political satire is biting, and speaking the truth, too. It's movie like this that need to be seen. They may not appeal to everyone, but it's entertaining and has some of the best political satire ever put to film.My rating 8/10Rated R for language. "},{"Title":"Important film, mockery is predated truth","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To get it out of the way, W Beaty's raps could have been better. He should have spent a week with the Wu Tang or something. But in the verses he sprays, he delivers many many liberal shots at what's wrong with our society ahora. Props to keeping the message in the moviesPlot Senator Bulworth is in a political rut and finds himself in an insommniac's dream. Radical ideals and bold statements spray like bullets across the media as Bulworth morphs in to a white-boy personification of 'Grand Master Flash'. Then cruel destiny happensIt almost plays out like a Greek tragedy. With slight skews in the characters to give it suspense. To get it off my chest, there are some blatant impossible scenarios introduced. Specifically the possibility that this Senator (one of two in California) has no bodyguard, that people can get in to all of his press conferences with no problem regardless that they are thugs, assassins and drug lords carrying guns. Sorry B, y'all missed it. Regardless the message is strong and solid, many argument against the Democrats & the Republicans that still need to be addressed, and so the movie is good. It is media - perhaps propaganda for a new era. I wish WB would put a little more in to the process of solving our societies problems rather than addressing them, we all know what's messed up in our world, the question is what do we do, who will stand up?Bottom Line A left wing cry me a river wet dream. A liberal's reference point. A radical's fuel. An activist's fire. A period piece that we all hope, thirty years later, will make us remember when 'those were the times' "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply dreadful.  I can usually finish watching most movies even I find them unappealing after I while, in the hopes of finding some redeeming qualities. But I could not finish this utter piece of crap!  Beatty rapping is too annoying to be described and the script does little with an idea that could have went somewhere.  Yuck! "},{"Title":"Certainly different","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an interesting premise for a movie, a politician who suddenly starts telling the truth. But after that is established in a couple of effective scenes, the movie doesn't go anywhere. It just says the same thing over and over and over. I also found a lot of needless profanity which also got tedious. It would be nice when  writers lard their work with swear words if they at least came up with some original or clever ones.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1998","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty's Bulworth is the wierdest masterpiece to come from him ever.  Yet, it is his most brilliant piece of comedy (and dark drama) to come around.  Beatty makes his usual director/producer/writer (his script got well deserved Oscar nomination)/actor routine, but it is better than usual.Here, Beatty plays a overly-depressed senator who decides to pay a guy to hire a guy to kill him (and someone will get a lot of life insurance afterwards), but before that happens, he decides to go to South central, California to start speaking the truth people want ot hear (in rap form, literally).  He does this in great fashion, as paranoia, creepiness, and coke-head assistants are at his side.  Great cast, including Beatty, Halle Berry, Oliver Platt, Jack Warden, Paul Sorvino, John Witherspoon and Don Cheadle, plus many great rants on politics and society (though mixed with a disturbing ending) make this a must see.  A+ "},{"Title":"A U.S.Senator with a mouthful of truth; is it too late?","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Written, directed and produced by; and yes starring Warren Beatty. Senator Jay B. Bulworth puts out a contract on himself and uses his last days to tell citizens the real way of politics. This satire gets real wordy. I think the profanity is there to create realism. And absurd is the senator turning into a hippie rapper. Takes a couple viewings to catch what you missed the first time. Humorous role by Oliver Platt. And Christine Baranski was her self centered self. Miss Halle Berry was alluring.   "}{"Title":"Could have been so much better!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a film that could have been excellent. But it is flawed by exaggeration, mixed messages and filled with such vile language that only the Eddie Murphys of this world can watch it without turning pale.It is one of the reasons I avoid going to the cinema. At least on video, I have access to the fast forward button on the remote, and I got quite a bit of exercise with it this time.Given a choice between the Warren Beatty of Heaven Can Wait and this garbage, it doesn't take a genius to see where my vote lies. "},{"Title":"Funny but the idea is boring !","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bulworth is funny but the idea is boring. It has no real story. What I'm saying is they could of made it more interesting. Every word is a swear word. Half of the movie I didn't understand until the end.   "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really wanted to like Bulworth.  Honest.  Unfortunately, the political satire can only be taken so far.  At some point I needed to relate to the characters, and I couldn't.  The initial rant at the church was a step in the right direction, but the rest of the film is a series of narrative miscues and logical blunders.Not once in the film did I care if Bulworth lived or died.  Halle Berry fills the Daryl Hannah role, the beautiful but boring young woman with more screen time than she deserves.  Am I really supposed to buy her transformation?  She was so much better in Losing Isiah.Since there's so little story here, the satire alone has to carry the movie. But what's the point?  That our political system is corrupt, that blacks are disenfranchised, that the rich get richer and the poor get poorer? Does Warren Beatty think there's anybody on the planet that doesn't know that already?I can't understand why this dull film is so highly recommended other than the reputation of the filmmaker and his alleged high-powered political satire.  "},{"Title":"realistic sarcastic approach on today's American politics","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" while this becomes a classic(10 years old already), i must say that i have seen this feature at least 5 times( not counting when seen it with company or parts of it).let's just quickly compare this to the more recent Charlie Wilson's War. while generally on same approach towards politics Bulworth does not try to justify or give an impression of naivety( how naive can really be a politician that condones war for whatever reasons!?).Bulworth appeals to all masses as well since it very intelligently funny with certain scenes that literally will make you laugh out loud!. for example,the scene where the main character suggest how to solve the American racial problem, is RAW and i guarantee you that will make you wake up the neighbors. this movie combines EXTREAMLLY well many aspects of American politics that anyone can relate to regardless if you are in the office or not, poor or rich( even if there are some charming attacks at the rich class), disfranchised voter or not.if you are not pleased with today's politics overall then this is for you! Warren Beatty probably gives the best experience of his career.Halle Berry has only a supporting role in reality BUT she does have a political oriented speech that is one of the most outstanding speech ever given on the big screen, when it comes to class oriented views. the other actors do very well their parts , somehow being general stereotypes of some form but very effective and NEEDED here, in giving a clear imagine of how thing are, and not how they should. "},{"Title":"A fairly daring satire.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth is not a film that could have been made by just anybody. Though many people probably share a lot of the same viewpoints expressed in the film, it probably took someone of Warren Beatty's clout to actually sit down and write it all out, then believably pitch it to a studio. Bulworth is a biting satire of politics as usual. The film does itself a favor and never takes itself too seriously. Some of the names of real politicians that get thrown around tend to date this film, but we're still debating virtually every issue it brings up.The film's first half hour is its best. It begins in the office of California Senator J. Billingotn Bulworth (Beatty). It is nighttime, and he sits alone watching a series of his own commercials airing just in time for the upcoming primary. Senator Bulworth is crying like a baby as each commercial repeats the same empty platitudes over and over again. It is obvious that he has been advised to sound like a centrist, even though that is not where his heart lies. On the walls of his office are pictures of Martin Luther King, Malcolm X, and Bobby Kennedy. People who died for their beliefs. Bulworth is just selling his out to get re-elected, and the whole process has become more than he can bare. Later on that morning, we see Senator Bulworth pay a man to put a contract out on his life. He feels he has nothing left to live for, and he wants a big insurance settlement to go to his daughter after he is killed. He is planning on being hit once he returns to California to campaign. Once Senator Bulworth gets back to his home state, things take one wild turn after another.We see the Senator now feel free to express exactly what he feels in public. He lambastes the congregation of a black church for rallying behind O.J. Simpson, and tells them not to expect anything good to come their way until they can offer more money to elected officials. Later on, he shows up at a party full of Jewish Hollywood types and basically tells them to stop making such crappy movies. He follows three young black women into an after hours club in South Central L.A., and basically learns how to rap overnight. Yes! From this point on, Senator Bulworth begins rapping his views in public, and understandably causing a major fracas wherever he goes. Making things worse for his stunned advisers is the fact that a C-SPAN crew is following him around everywhere, so all of this eccentricity is being broadcast all over.The plot takes many twists and turns. Some work, and some do not. Bulworth falls in love with a young black woman named Nina who is not what she seems to be. He still has a contract out on his life throughout the whole film, as well. Once he starts speaking what's really on his mind, he decides he doesn't want to die after all. The trouble is, he cannot get the hit called off due to other complications. The film spends its last half hour in the hood of L.A. where it seems to ramble a bit too much and lose the sharper focus it had in its earlier scenes. The conclusion is a bit unexpected, but I liked it. I liked it quite a bit, I must say.The acting is exceptional. Beatty is what he is. Halle Berry is so freaking lovely as Nina! There are numerous cameos from famous media types and the entire cast is solid from top to bottom. The film doesn't strike all the right chords, but it hits enough of them. No matter which side of the political debate one finds themselves on, wouldn't it be nice just to hear a politician say what he/she truly believes? 8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Good ideas, average movie!","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie represents the very notion of the modern media - to misplace facts and disfocus attention of viewers. When a Democratic senator becomes bored with his life he puts a hit on himself and then goes on doing crazy things he could never be allowed to do - like rapping instead of giving election speech, saying the f word loud, walking in South Central at night, chatting with drug dealers. There are some good ideas in his words, like redistributing public wealth more efficiently, or eliminating racial and social differences, and solving problems with black community, but they are overpowered by opinion, that all a guy need to do to get black votes is to act just like a rap star. Everyting else, like actually finding solutions is irrelevant. And that is the point when movie fails to make a strong point about what is right or wrong. 5/10. "},{"Title":"It may be spoonfeeding, but that's what many middle-americans need","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Response to preceding comments.1.  This movie is not supposed to be realistic...that's the point of the film...that (unfortunately) no politician would ever acknowledge how dirty the game really is and the lack of opportunity in our urban centers.2.  If you thought this movie was an insult to Jewish or people of color you totally didn't get it...and you don't have a clue about public policy and most likely don't vote.  If it were insulting to anyone it is to Republicans and Democrats who are in the pockets of corporations.3.  The comment about an old white man like Beatty being unable or being and innappropriate person to talk about the problems in the ghetto is just silly.  Just because he is white doesn't mean that he is incapable of empathy...is he not entitled to his political views and creative expression because he is a white man?  Please.  I for one am impreesed that a person in from Beatty's world cares enough to make this movie "},{"Title":"LEFTIST 101","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beatty just doesn't have the film chops or the political sophistication to bring this film off.  The whole film operates on a stale `Leftist 101' level that was throroughly bankrupt even in the &#145;60s (at one point Warren even starts worshiping Huey Newton; go read former-ultra-leftist-now-conservative-pariah David Horowitz's book to find out about good ole Huey, Warren).Corporations are running everything and buying everyone blah, blah, blah. Tell us something we don't know, pal.  What's his solution?  Another big surprise `These guys won't regulate themselves, they need to be regulated.' Of course, like most leftists (lone wolves like Noam Chomsky excluded, of course), Warren wouldn't know the first thing about self-regulating free markets, Austrian economics, Libertarianism or the fact that GOVERNMENT is the problem.  A sophisticated Indie director like Alexander Payne would've ripped Corprorate-State fascism a gigantic hole without the naive, staler than stale, and in this day and age, beyond laughable suggestion that unregulated free-markets are the problem. In fact, if you want to really gauge just how unsubversive this film really was, consider the overwhelmingly favorable media response to it (it was the best-reviewed film of 1998).  Warren's film allowed all these establishment media-types to front as open-minded people who accept criticism, simply because underneath its subversive veneer it was essentially harmless and nothing new.Still this is a valuable film because of little scenes here and there, and also, the interracial romance between the Halle Berry character and Warren's.  Warren's suggestion that everyone should just F each other until they turn one color flips the bird to leftist-in-ideology-but-racist-in-practice Hollywood,  black &#145;separatists' (don't call him a racist now, he's a black man) like Spike Lee (the main reason I even bothered watching this movie is because Spike openly stated how much he hated it), white supremacists, middle class snobs and everyone else in between.  Just remember that we still live in a so-called &#145;free' country where a politician with an interracial  marriage is unheard of and would be considered a liability to his party.  "},{"Title":"Says what we want to hear, but...","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie pushes the right buttons in giving the audience what they want to hear, but doesn't give them what they want to see.The idea of a straight-shooting politician is an inspiring one, indeed. And Beatty does this fairly effectively and quite humorously, as Senator Bulworth spouts on with everything we want to hear.My problem with the flick is that Beatty does so through the persona of a man who's lost his mind. Repeated references to the lack of sleep or nutrition, combined with the general air of confusion that he shows makes one wonder what attitudes are genuine and which are not. For this movie to work, you need to believe in the lead character, and it is difficult.Additionally, only one side of the coin is really played out before us on the screen. We see how everyone surrounding Bulworth is only interested in personal advancement, positioning and sucess, whether it's the media (nice cameo by Larry King), fellow politicians, advisors or tag-alongs.But what we don't see enough of is the people that are truly affected by his message, primarily the black, urban characters within the film, from Halley Berry and Don Cheadle on to their families and associates. We see this sudden transformation onscreen, but they are only given brief dialogue and insight as to why. I can suspend disbelief only so far; to see a drug dealer make a 180-degree turn simply because of hearing 5 minutes' of Beatty's political rap just makes no sense.Finally, there are simply too many tertiary characters in the film. We're introduced to many characters that could possibly prove to be interesting but are rushed offscreen before we learn more about them or even care that they exist.At times I found myself wondering just who they were supposed to be, anyway, such as Nora Dunn's erratcally-portrayed reporter who at one point seems to be from a tabloid, then another point connected with the networks.Among the fine actors wasted on undeveloped characters are Christine Baranski (his wife), Richard Sarafian (his dark deed do-er), Paul Sorvina (insurance lobbyist), and Jack Warden (his... friend? advisor? who knows). These aren't cameo appearances, mind you; they're characters that are pulled into the plot with seemingly little to do.Aside from my criticisms, the movie is still somewhat enjoyable, and the performances of Halle Berry, Oliver Platt and Beatty himself are charismatic and fun to see them go through their own drastic changes throughout the movie.There are additionally some priceless lines/quotes in the movie, many of which were played during the trailers.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Complete and utter rubbish disguised as satire","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty once again proves he has no idea when it comes to producing truly effective satire in this woeful display of over acting and inept scripting.The film fails on all counts.  It remains neither an effective satire on political America or a comedy of any subtlety or finesse.This film is complete and utter rubbish and one of the few I have seriously thought of working out on since I began my movie viewing life. "}{"Title":"Witty Commentary","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" BULWORTH is one of those witty, social commentary pieces which, while only sporadically uproarious, delivers. Warren Beatty is the title character, a California senator who lets it all hang out during what he has paid a hit man to ensure is his last weekend on earth.The senator's sudden carefree attitude is the key theme of BULWORTH, and offers the film's biggest laughs. Consider the line where he tells a frustrated group of black supporters that unless they get behind someone other than a running back who stabs his wife, they'll never get rid of politicians who promise to deliver on black concerns but never follow through. Or when visiting Jewish supporters, he assures his audience that he's quite certain his speechwriter put something bad about Farrakhan in here for you. It's about as un-PC as you can get, but that's the point.BULWORTH also unravels (the film, not the character) with superb direction from Beatty. He wisely chose to pick up in the middle of the story rather than over-explaining the character's origins or how he got to this pathetic place he now finds himself. There are too many situations and settings for the senator to count, which aids in our viewing pleasure. Beatty also squeezed memorable performances from virtually everyone, with Halle Berry, Oliver Platt and the cameoing Larry King deserving special mention.On the downside, BULWORTH is hurt by excessive vulgarity. Hearing Beatty and friends muse about Arsenio Hall's nether region is painful, as are the attempts to find humor in cocaine addiction. It sometimes seems as though the writers knew they only had so much quality material and felt compelled to pad out the rest with second-rate shenanigans. Moreover, the film's rather astute social commentary morphs into outright preaching, complete with stereotypical racist cops and unimaginative Hollywood-like rants against center-right ideals.But as mentioned, BULWORTH generally overcomes its flaws. The politically inclined will appreciate it most, but it's worth a look for anyone in the mood for an adult comedy. "},{"Title":"A somewhat impressive mess","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Presidential candidate, Warren Beatty, has a nervous breakdown, and in the process of his election campaign, starts tellin' it like it is. I liked the premise, nice to hear ideas from outside the voter pleasing political box, get an airing. But the premise is wrapped up in an incredibly uneven movie, which at times is quite hard to watch.    "},{"Title":"Bulworth exposes the bull in politics.","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. Hilarious premise. Congressman Bulworth has a death wish after years in office. Tired of the lies and scripts, he hires someone to assassinate him rather than commit suicide. Keeps you smiling and guessing. Lots of cursing. "},{"Title":"Bulworthless","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this over-hyped pile of pretentious garbage. Where to begin?...For one thing, I hate movies that stuff political messages down my throat and preach to me. Even if I sometimes agree with the message, there are more subtle and elegant ways to convey the point then spoon feeding it to me like I'm an idiot. This movie just went on and on about how America is falling apart and run by big uncaring corporations that tell the government what to do. Well, duh. Did anyone not already know this?And what self respecting, intelligent person would follow such a clown as Bulworth? Give me a break. So Warren Beatty dresses like a gangsta rappa and all of a sudden the entire black population stands up behind him in support? WHAT!?So, because of Bulworth's rapping loud mouth, everything falls into place and is so perfect and happy and the world is going to be all okay? Sure. Whatever. Life isn't that simple.The movie is boring, long, and devoid of believable characters or situations. I recommend Tim Robbin's movie Bob Roberts if you'd like a political satire that is actually funny and not just insulting. "},{"Title":"too many messages, nothing to say","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has too many goals; cover racial conflict, big business owning politicians, and the fact that our 2 party system doesn't work in one lame movie. Enough with the rap stuff...this movie would have been a whole lot better if it cut the rap. Warren Beatty rappin'? Give me a break. Old Man Beatty chasing after Halle Berry is pathetic...and he gets her. Oh, right....he directed it, too. "},{"Title":"BUL-WORTHLESS","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For me to comment on a movie, I either love it or hated it. Let me start by saying that this is a horrible movie. I cannot understand why anyone would find this remotely entertaining or, for even a further stretch, funny. I have yet to meet anyone face to face who thought this was at all enjoyable.The plot had potential. It ended up being foul-mouthed slop and an unwatchable mess. Had I been able to watch the entire thing, even the credits probably contained the F bomb.You disagree? That usually gets followed up by oh, you must not get it? I got IT and IT is old hat and nothing new under the sun. Sure, political campaigns are big scams. Sure, large industry buy and sell laws. At least make it entertaining when you show me something I already know. Did anyone find humor in his political rapping or was I the only one who thought, Man, this is garbage ?This would have gotten a 1 out of 10 except that the technical aspect of film making was up to par. If you do ever feel the need to rent this movie, do yourself a favor and buy a soda instead. Trust me, it's more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Bulworthless.  More diminishing returns from Warren.","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Beatty bombast is in full evidence as the one time reigning monarch of Hollywood comes down from his kingdom on the hill to get real among the great unwashed and inform America just what is wrong with it. The time has come to kill the messenger. It is a long way both chronologically and aesthetically from the halcyon time when the confident kid stood the town on its ear. All he has now is a tin ear.Senator Jay Billington Bulworth has gone from idealist to cynic over time doing what pols do best, look out for themselves. In the midst of a campaign and a brewing scandal that will expose him the Senator decides to take out a contract on himself so his family can at least reap the benefits of a huge insurance policy. With that taken care of Bulworth feels a great weight removed from his shoulder and he begins to speak more openly and honestly including getting down with the homeys their style.Bulworth is one smug and arrogant tract of heavy handed patronization that ham fisted builds slowly into a mawkish surrealism with Beatty's transformation into hip verbiage another form of Jolson black face. As he does in all his films Beatty has plenty of close-ups of stuttering consternation as well as getting the chance to run sprints before bringing out his basic decency by pictures end. In Bulworth he takes it up a notch with a hip hop routine better suited in mood and time for a skit on SNL. His condescending abrasiveness may have had some validity in his younger days but with all that promise wasted over time even his I'm hip and down liberal credentials fail to make his case. Bulworth is an out of touch travesty of a film and may well be the final nail in a career long on promise, short on delivery. "},{"Title":"What's a Bulworth?","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Warren Beatty as a Senator who becomes a rapper? Move over, Plan 9 From Outer Space! What is this, Ishtar II, the sequel? I was surprised that this movie turned out so well. Warren Beatty took a lot of chances here, and he hit the jackpot! I would even say that his rapping is great (in the context of this film). Halle Berry was beautiful as usual, but she also played her part well (she also plays her part well as usual, not implying that she is just a pretty face). I thought I would cringe when Warren had his Adrian Brody moment, but when the inevitable happened I didn't even barf! Amazing! This film was made in 1999, but it also pertains to 2008. Warren Beatty will be a mile high in Denver at the DNC. Also hobnobbing will be Spike Lee. Wish I could be a fly on that wall. Spike Lee WISHES he could've made Bulworth (maybe he doesn't wish he made it, but I think Bulworth makes the points that Spike tries to make a lot more successfully). "},{"Title":"Great American Classic","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Putting aside whether or not it was funny, or had a political message behind it, or whether it is more pertinent than ever in todays political climate and the upcoming 2008 elections... It is a classic tale of love, money, and the American struggle to get ahead at all costs.The clinch for me, was the fact that the protagonist's motives were NOT motivated by any lofty political idealism or love of humanity, but entirely financial... And the unsurprising, yet nonetheless stunning, twist at the end will surely put this movie in it's rightful place in Hollywood history.- http//nickysworld.net "},{"Title":"A brilliantly unbalanced masterpiece","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth is a rolling nervous breakdown, and we're invited to the last 48 hours of his until-now pointless life as a U.S. Senator. And C-Span is along for the ride as well, doing a 24 Hours on the Campaign Trail feature, following Senator Jay Billington Bulworth as he spouts (and then raps) uncommonly frank (and decreasingly lucid) truths to his local supporters, and a nationwide audience. Oh, and he dabbles in flirtation with from-the-streets Nina, through her finding perhaps a reason to stay alive after all...The result is some of the most laugh-out-loud funny scenes in the history of political satire; some very brash statements about American political reality (If you don't put down that malt liquor and chicken wings, and get behind someone other than a running back who stabs his wife, you're NEVER gonna get rid of somebody like me!); an intensely compelling (and very funny) performance by Warren Beatty; and an uneven but extremely worthwhile experience. At the very least, Bulworth (the man) is one of cinemas great characters, exploring a very unique arc--and that alone is reason to take a chance on Bulworth (the movie). "}{"Title":"A poorly executed, cliché ridden, good idea....","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched this film, I liked it for a few minutes and found it went to hell pretty quickly. I thought it's over use of MF'er and lame soundtrack almost racists in its portrayal of Afro Americans. I felt that all the black people who acted in this must have read the script and the ideas and fell into what turned out to be this good idea gone bad. I found it locked in time (1998)( and even stupidly mainstream for that time). I would've liked this film to be something more powerful and convincing than it was. The likely hood of the movie's scenario was SOO far out that it wasn't a bit believable! I am aligned with the leftism in the movie, one of the more socialist people around, but the cheese factor was just a big turn off! Warren Beatty sets himself up to be a left activist martyr but falls so far short. When the Bulworth character does the ultra-white-man rap, it's VERY painful and offensive to watch; it's not funny and gave me a vibe equivalent the the speculum scene in A Clockwork Orange. I wanted to run and puke but I couldn't because it would've been rude to my fellows I was watching it with; they actually enjoyed the film!Now a feel like a jerk and a sour puss; a 35 year old crusty old crooner whining about something that shouldn't be taken so seriously. Many people seem to like the film and I seem way out of line with the majority. But someone has to take a stand for all those who found this movie painful and cliché, like I did. "},{"Title":"Serious Beatty Shines As Rapper","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This hilarious film puts the lie to Warren Beatty's previous serious characters, and is a wonder of creativity, scriptwriting, producing, and casting. Top-notch actors Paul Sorvino, Don Cheadle, Oliver Platt, and Christine Baranski, (who, strangely, resembles Carly Simon,You're So Vain, thought to be about Warren), add to the screwball plot of a disillusioned Senator hiring a hit-man to eliminate his angst.A full crew of rapper Illuminati and Halle Berry provide a terrific and exciting addition to a world not usually inhabited by Mr. Beatty. This is a film worth watching and owning, if only because of the amazing transformation of the aging, but still-good looking Warren, into a profoundly amusing hip-hop personality. "},{"Title":"Very clever, very funny political satire.","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Two great political satires came out around the same time as each other - Bulworth and Wag the Dog. Both received praise from critics but it was Bulworth that received more award nominations...personally I think they're both equally poignant but you can't win 'em all.Warren Beatty writes, directs and stars in this movie about a bitter and exasperated liberal Democrat candidate who suddenly breaks down and decides to tell it like it is. He goes on radio talk shows candidly discussing taboo matters such as sex and racism, seemingly alienating his audience...however when the polls come in it turns out the public feels more comfortable with an honest politician than a dishonest one - and Bulworth becomes very popular, especially with the younger crowds.Watching a sixty-something Warren Beatty dressed up in bling-bling rapping like a black man in a movie might sound like a really lame idea for a simple joke...and honestly when I saw the ads for this film I originally thought, Dear god, the Wayans Brothers have gotten to Beatty too. It looked like something out of a Scary Movie...umm...movie.Anyway, it was a lot better than I thought. Halle Berry (pre-Oscar, pre-long-acceptance-speech) stars as Beatty's potential love interest (!) in the film. Bulworth hits on her at a race-separated club in the slums of the city...kind of a funny scene.The best thing about this movie is its bitter, cynical treatment of politics. As a true cynical at heart I found this quite irreverent and funny and have to admit - Beatty, as much as I don't like him, is damned funny. "},{"Title":"Warren Beatty as Bulworth is a hoot!","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out and thought it was somewhat amusing. But frankly I never liked rap at all and that was a barrier that prevented me from appreciating this film for what it is. I've grown up and chilled out since then and although I still don't like rap, I am better able to appreciate this movie.Warren Beatty is way over the top in his performance and had it been anything less, this movie would not have succeeded. He is absolutely hilarious.Yeah, there are some credibility gaps. A smart, young, beautiful black woman raised in the hood falling for a middle-aged establishment white guy? Makes you think this whole movie should have been part of Bulworth's dream sequence. But enjoying this movie requires getting past the whole credibility thing.Like I said, I don't like rap and never have, but I found myself hanging on ever f...ing word of his lyrics.I haven't laughed this hard in a very long time. But somebody help me. I can't get that freakin' song from the movie out of my head. "},{"Title":"Great Warren Beattty return","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth is a movie about a US democrat senator, Jay Bulworth, interpreted by Warren Beatty who wishes to end his life during the electoral campaign.This is an opportunity to be sincere with the voters. this leads to a series of spectacular dialogs and situations, in which a lot of US social problems are shown.Although, there is only one plot, and the film lacks in subtlety. It wants to catch everything, but instead just points out all the problems of the American society.The acting is beautiful, a very good work by Warren Beatty, and the others. If you can, see it. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Satire","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" BULWORTH (3+ outta 5 stars) I didn't think much of the concept of this movie... rich, white political hack has a sudden surge of popularity when he starts telling it like it is and appropriating popular black culture. Warren Beatty as Senator Bulworth sounds terrible when he is trying to talk black or deliver his campaign speeches in his awful rap style... but I guess the point is that he is *supposed* to be bad at it. Is that how white people rap? one character asks and it gets a pretty big laugh. As tired as I am of the whole white man sees the light and decides to do the right thing for minorities plot... this movie does have a lot going for it. There are some genuinely funny and thought-provoking situations... very intelligent satire... the acting is excellent overall... the dialogue is very real. The idea of young Halle Berry developing a romantic attachment to aging Warren Beatty may have you rolling your eyes... but Berry does almost make you believe it. Don Cheadle and Oliver Platt also have some juicy moments as supporting characters. I didn't think I was going to like this movie much but kept finding myself being pleasantly surprised as the story unfolded. "},{"Title":"Great Political Satire.","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A politician throws caution to the wind an speaks his mind without pandering for votes. It's too good to be true, which is why this movie works. For wouldn't it be refreshing if a politician leveled with the people, talked to the people instead of talking AT the people? Wouldn't it be refreshing if a politician decided to stop being manipulative and just expressed what he thought? This movie is a satire of a political process that reduces an elected official to the status of a burnt out relic of a former time when idealism counted for something, and which has been replaced by a cynicism that permeates through the political discourse. The scene in which the senator is plotting his own demise because he believes his own career to be a sham sets the mood of this movie, because it's only when the senator decides to do himself in that he finally feels able to reveal his most intimate and personal feelings about things that have been simmering within him for a long time. This in turn raises the question What was he so afraid of that he felt he had to repress himself for so long? When the senator decides that he no longer has to be afraid, he then is able to level with the people and with himself. There are few, if any, movies that deal with the subjects of political and personal honesty and integrity more effectively and compellingly than this movie. "},{"Title":"White men in suits really can't rap, but it sure is funny","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to admit that I had never heard of this movie before, but because it got a good rating in the magazines, I decided to give it a try. Even though it didn't always convince me, I'm still glad that I saw the movie, because it had some really funny moments to offer.The Democratic senator in California, who runs for re-election, is fed up with life. His wife cheats on him and he can no longer stand the lying, the cheating and the money-grabbing that politics is all about. He has hired a hit man who will kill him after he has raised his life insurance. But before dying he will do one last thing make a complete fool out of himself and destroying his perfect image by ruining his entire election campaign. How he will do it? By telling the people the truth about how politicians don't give a damn about them, how all politicians only think about the money... But instead of making a fool out of himself he becomes more and more popular, especially with the black population. In the mean time he has met some young girls and he has fallen in love with one of them. All this makes him wanting to stay alive again...The story is nice and the acting is OK, but it's the humor and the music that make this movie worth a watch. If you are a fan of rap music and hip hop, than this movie must have one of the best soundtracks you've ever heard (except for when the senator is rapping). The rapping senator is fun to watch, but there are better comical parts in this movie, especially when he kicks against the shins of the establishment. But despite the good music and the humor, I couldn't help noticing that the movie isn't always that great. That's why I give it a 7/10. Worth a watch, but not perfect. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Crazy isn't how I'd describe it.","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, I'll admit there are a few very funny parts in this movie, but the political statements Warren Beatty makes in this film is something worth experiencing. Speaking through Bulworth, Beatty tells politicians and everyone else what he thinks is wrong in the current system of American Government. At the beginning of the movie, Senator Bulworth is deeply disturbed about the state of his life. His wife cheats on him, he doesn't like lying all the time and Bulworth hires a hit-man to take care of his woes.However, at the first stop on his campaign trail he is to give a speech in front of the African-American community. Bulworth steps up to the podium and has a change of heart. Since he knows his life is over, he starts speaking his mind more and more on television instead of reciting the same speech over and over again (kinda like Kerry did in the 2004 election.) Addressing issues like the absence of black leaders today and the kind of life black people are forced to live since the deterioration of the education system actually gives Bulworth a boost to his popularity. Afterwards Bulworth speaks about media and the extended reach that corporate control has on the government, the problem that Senators have paying media companies for TV time to have their political viewpoints expressed to the public, and the breakdown of racial harmony. In my opinion it is one of the best movies I have ever seen. Especially with the twist at the end. "},{"Title":"A daring and hilarious comedy!---- 8/10","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth follows a U.S. senator from California who is sick and tired of life and politics, and puts a contract out on himself. Now that he has nothing to lose, he takes the opportunity to tell everyone what he really thinks, and in doing so chooses to live and reinvents himself as a rapping man of the people. He now must stop his own murder while defending the little guy and offending a whole lot of other people.In one of the best comedic performances ever, Warren Beatty is hysterical as Senator Jay Bulworth. His self-written raps far surpasses anything Eminem or 50 cent could come up with, and his facial expressions had my side hurting. The rest of the cast is great too, especially Oliver Platt, who plays Bulworth's frustrated assistant who can't understand his boss's new strategy. Aside from being hilarious, the movie is full of ballsy truths about America, something i barely ever see in movies. Sure some movies touch on or symbolize politics, but these movie puts it right in your face. Where else could you find a white senator rapping the Arabs got the oil/we buy everything they sell/ but if the brothers raise the price, we blow them all to hell. Brilliant.This is one of the funniest comedies i have ever seen. While people today are yukking it up at idiotic movies like Dodgeball and Anchorman, they could laugh and learn a thing or two by watching Bulworth. 8/10 "}{"Title":"BulworthA fearless venture to the best and worst of politics","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" BULWORTH is the story of a emotionally distraught and depressed Democrat senator from CA, Jay Bulworth (WARREN BEATTY) who indirectly hires a hit-man to kill him. Over the period of time, before Bulworth's presumed assassination, he takes a fearless and brutally honest venture to expose the best and worst of politics. I compliment WARREN BEATTY not only for a strong acting and directing job, but also for the guts it takes to make such controversial accusations about the country's government and largest industries, including his own, the film industry.In many ways BULWORTH is a comedy and a dark representation of our country's most valued institutions, such as government, insurance, and film. Bulworth's political journey is laugh-out-loud funny as he places expressions of disbelief over the faces of the characters from the film and the viewer. I was thoroughly amused to see WARREN BEATTY rapping and rhyming as he gave speeches and spoke in debates. However, for all the funny scenes and lines, BULWORTH also offers a dark realism about American government and insurance agencies. As Bulworth fearlessly speaks his mind about the dirty and corrupt insurance agencies and politicians, the viewer experiences firsthand the ineffectiveness and cynical side of politics.Bulworth's strong acting, directing, laughs, and moving political message and statements make BULWORTH well worth its while. BULWORTH is a truly superior and unique film in many regards. BULWORTH brilliantly offers a cynical realism of politics and at the same time laughs and comic performances. It wasn't until after I finished viewing the film did I realize just how dark and how much cynical realism the film offered. The humorous characters and scenes on the surface make BULWORTH an enjoyable comedy satire that also delivers a dark and disparaging political punch. ***½/**** "},{"Title":"underrated and true","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bulworth is almost always an under-appreciated film. Very few people take the spiritual aspect of song as a key to the meaning of the film, despite its direct references. Everything the Jay Bulworth character in the film says is positively true, and if you have qualms with the film's politics i would suggest thinking for yourself rather than criticizing an ultimately entertaining film. Yes, there are some elements of minstrel in Jay Bulworth's character. However, it is important to not overlook how the film overcomes stereotypes where other films fail; it presents eloquent and intelligent African-American characters who's roles are neither harmlessly entertaining nor needlessly threatening. By disarming these stereotypes of urban youth in south-central los angeles, the film is able to compliment what beatty calls for in the film. If bored, look for all the Manchurian Candidate references, and repeat review as necessary... "},{"Title":"Worth it!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has all the entertaining elements you need. The dramatic elements are equal to satire peaks, and the satire peaks contain enough ironic bites to make you laugh and think about the dialogue at the same time. Confusing? Not until you watch this movie... There's definitely something very refreshing in this story and more you watch it, more you're surprised. I never rented this movie, because I read it's a Warren Beatty movie - and what a mistake that was. After that movie I realized that Warren is a great director and a great actor - it's was after the movie that I remembered Heaven can wait was also directed by him.Not watching Bulworth would be a big loss for my DVD collection.7.8 stars for this great piece. "},{"Title":"Has some good moments but they are too few and far between &#150; the use of race and rap as a major part of the film is a big failing (spoilers)","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fed up with his life, not having eaten or slept for days, California Senator Jay Bulworth hires a man to hire a hit-man to assassinate him. He then sets out on the final few days of his campaign to just tell the truth. He starts by announcing to an all-black church that they are not important because they do not contribute to keeping him and his colleagues in jobs. He follows this by offending an entertainment industry meeting by insulting their product and noting they are all Jews before being whisked away by his staff. Hooking up with sexy black girl Nina, Bulworth continues to keep it real &#150; and surprisingly the public respond to him with support. With this weight off his shoulders, Bulworth has a new lease of life &#150; but his hit-man is still out to complete the job.At the time of release I was attracted to the film by the success of Ghetto Superstar and the involvement of Halle Berry, but I never bothered to get out and see it as it got bad reviews. Years later it comes to television and I decide that, at that price, I'll give it a go! The film has a simple premise that offers satirical potential &#150; a senator decides to tell the truth; and in this element it works well. This side of it throws up several sharp moments where Bulworth does let rip about the truth about the power of business, political funding and the politics of words without actions &#150; however these are in only a handful of 'public speaking' moments and are not enough to carry the film. The rest of the material is a real mishmash of ill-judged humour, stupid dramatic twists and an obsession with race and hip hop culture that does two offensive things &#150; 1) suggests that rapping and wearing baggy clothes is what being black is about, and 2) suggests that politicians only act this way towards blacks, they don't, we are all little people regardless of race.This obsession focuses the film on the issue of the 'black' situation in the US but it also drags it into a stereotypical area of rapping, gangbanging, Jerry Springer-style women and so on &#150; almost all of these take away from the film and its point. Even on a practical level, having Bulworth rapping the majority of his lines makes it harder to really listen to what the film is saying. The plot also tries to drag in some tension about the hit-man &#150; but it never works once and it is just dragged out to an ending that might have been good if it had been better explained; we can draw our own conclusions but it seemed like the film was afraid to state one clear meaning and instead just let us see what we want (was it a black assassin, a second hit-man, a job by business/political colleagues to shut him up &#150; the film is happy for you to see it how you choose). It is a shame because the potential to make mischief with this simple premise was really there, but all the clutter only takes away from it because it simply doesn't work &#150; and the whole thing with Beatty rapping much of his dialogue just didn't work at all and was almost embarrassing to watch at points.For this reason I must say that I thought Beatty was pretty poor in the film. He deserves praise for taking the part but his 'acting black' was not done with the aspect needed to tell us he was sending himself up, it was delivered so flatly that I had to assume he was delivering it seriously and both he and the writers must be asked what they actually think being 'black' means. Berry is very sexy but that's about it &#150; her involvement in the 'hitman' subplot sets up silly twists and nothing more &#150; good to look at but no more. Platt is good in the adviser role and has some good lines but he is lost in the clutter. The support cast is pretty impressive in terms of names but few have much to do or make much of an impact. Cheadle, Washington, Astin, Metclaf, Sorvino, Warden, Baldwin and Baranski are all recognisable names and faces but few have much to do &#150; not so much their fault as it is the fault of the material to let so much potential go to waste.Overall this is not a very good film and I was more disappointed by it due to the potential I could see it had. It throws up several good scenes but the potential these show is lost to a load of clutter involving much poorly judged humour, an overdose of lazy race stereotyping and a supposedly tense subplot that comes across as a total misfire. Given the cast involved and the potential of the premise, I was greatly disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Pointed, funny, slightly confused.","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The grotesque inequality of contemporary American society is rarely addressed by the country's politicians; or indeed, by the movie industry, which in spite of its supposed liberal bias presents a norm of the upper middle class family and, if it portrays the poor, does so through a number of filters (the terrifying underclass; the decent, aspirational working family, etc.) that cast no explicit political shadow. In fact, the most telling political films are often comedies, such as 'Bob Roberts' or 'Bulworth', whose supposed outrageousness actually serves to show how equally outrageous are the predominant boundaries of political debate. In 'Bulworth', Warren Beatty plays the eponymous senator, a man driven to the verge of suicide by his growing contempt for what he has come to represent. He flips, starts telling the truth and, unbelievably but hilariously, raps his way to re-election.'Bulworth' is well acted (and I particularly enjoyed Paul Sorvino's small role as an insurance industry executive). Beatty himself is a much-derided figure, but his hectic direction is suited to the material, while his portrayal of Bulworth as an unctious hybrid of Richard Nixon and Larry Sanders is perfect; even so, it's not completely clear if he is sending up his image as an aging playboy, or revelling in it. And although at times Bulworth seems to be playing the Alan Clark gambit (Clark was a British politician who became popular for the modest virtue of admitting he was a s**t), the film does make some serious points about the lie of small government. It even namechecks big corporations in a negative fashion, a welcome change in an age of product placement. There is, however, a certain liberal fuzziness behind the pointed attacks as a blacked-up white man, Bulworth is less threatening a figure to middle America than the Black Panthers he supposedly admires.After this film, some even suggested Beatty himself should enter politics. An absurd suggestion; and then we got Schwarzengger. Truth is stranger (and worse) than fiction; but Schwarzenegger has never made a film as good as this.  "},{"Title":"Political commentary at its best","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is exceptional and absolutely brilliant. Note how it uses race to symbolize class. The blacks represent all poor people - or rather, oppressed people in general -, and the whites represent the ruling elite. The final message, that we must all screw (does the IMDB allow the f word here?) each other until there are no white people left, means that we must get rid of rich people and divide our wealth more equally. Great message, great movie. Well-crafted in all ways, supremely entertaining, funny, thought-provoking, and with many painful pangs and stings of realism.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sen. Jay Billington Bulworth is Howard Beale for a new generation and I love it. I didn't hesitate giving this film the highest rating and am kind of shocked it has a score below 7.0.  Whatever, this film made we laugh out loud consistently and actually has a (worthwhile) message and purpose behind it. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Midlife Crisis","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS WITHINBulworth is an entertaining affair but will probably only be remembered for the main song on the original sound track, that being the Pras, ODB & Maya anthem Ghetto Superstar!But I digress. Warren Beattey plays a senator who goes a little bit loopy after putting a contract on to have his lfe terminate and becomes this decision makes him want to break the rules... but it's braking of the rules that gets him popular with the masses! He has reason to live! But now he must find the man set out to kill him! A good film but in reality was never going to be a blockbuster smash as I personally found it hard to place Bulworth in a particular category that would attract more audiences!Halle Berry, Don Cheadle, Oliver Platt, Paul Sorvino, Jack Warden and Isaiah Washington supply good support for this film.6/10 "},{"Title":"Better than expected -- when it's good, it's really good...","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Regardless of the fact that I'm not a huge Warren Beatty fan (my heads still reeling from `Dick Tracy'), I still expected `Bullworth' to be halfway decent, based entirely on the film's trailers&#133; but I never expected it to be this good! Warren Beatty plays Jay Billington Bullworth, a groveling California senator who can no longer stomach the political game -- he hates politics, fat-cat lobbyists and his phony family life, and has just lost a bundle in stocks.  As a result, he takes a contract out on his own life and flies back to Cali, thinking he has one final weekend to live.  In due course, Bullworth then feels a newfound independence from the system and begins challenging it in the most asinine ways he can conjure up, saying everything that's really on his mind.  He insults Jews in their own mansions, corporate America on national TV and blacks in their own church (If you don't put down the malt liquor and chicken wings and get behind somebody other than a running back who stabs his wife, you're never going to get rid of somebody like me).  Along the way, he hooks up with a couple of zealous young hood-rat chicks (including Halle Berry), and heads to an after-hours club, where he gets his first taste of hip-hop. There's more to Bulworth's insults than meets the eye, and a lot of it comes out in the overt guise of social commentary.  Beatty attacks the government as wasteful and racist, the film industry as gutless and money-hungry and insurance companies as contemptible.  In fact, his best line comes when he says everybody should screw everybody until we're all one color &#150; then there won't be any racial problem. The movie hits hard when it hits (just try to sit through Beatty saying `nappy dugout' or `macking' without cracking a grin), but makes you wince at other times (it's really hard to watch Beatty's first rapping scene).  But it's definitely gutsy, and straddles the thinnest line between poor-taste and laugh-out-loud comedy, thumbing its nose the fallen-angel predicament of American politics more comically than `Wag the Dog' and/or `Primary Colors.'  "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  U.S. Senator can't deal with the lies anymore, doesn't care, decides to be honest at all  costs.  What a fantastic premise!  I love this idea.  And what a cast!  Before I saw this  movie, I loved everything about it.  And then I sat through it.  Barely.  It's a preachy,  tired, poorly written heap.  Beatty takes all of its potential and throws it away.Bullworth is a satire without bite, or direction.  The movie's biggest problem - there is  absolutely no question that it was written by an old white man.  Warren Beatty writing  inner-city gang members?  Ridiculous.  And that's the way it comes off.  Beatty reveals  himself as a holier-than-thou liberal with no conception of the lives of those people he's  supposedly fighting for.  How could he - he's Warren Beatty.  It's not his fault that he's  sheltered from the truth.  He just shouldn't write about it.  And we shouldn't pay money  to see it. "}{"Title":"Underrated Beatty's best.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First a note   I just saw this film a second time, and it was a good idea.  On the first viewing, I saw Bulworth as a depressed, nearly insane  character who tells the truth because he's too tired and apathetic and angry to lie anymore.    On the second, I noticed a lot of extra details    Bulworth is not just a passive character, he is an agent of change, and  is fully aware of this.  For example, the important quotes he steals  from Nina and L.D. and passes on to the nation are elicited by his own  questions to them!    Okay, the capsule review     Senator Bulworth is tired of lying. He's so tired of it, he would rather die than lie any more.  He frees himself from consequences by arranging his own death, then proceeds to use his public platform to  tell the whole truth.   His blunt forthrightness exposes and upsets the plutocracy, but  galvanizes the people, and he becomes wildly popular, though  unpredictable.  Will he succeed in redeeming his country before he  succeeds in his suicide?   Beatty's script is subtle and sweet, but his comments on the  American system of government are (like Bulworth's) straightforward and  devoid of subtlety.  Do yourself a favor and see the movie twice.  He  isn't simply critical of the system, he is quite specific on what he  thinks should change.   Whether you agree with his criticisms or not, they are worth a  second thought and a second viewing.  They may even be more relevant  now than they were in 1998.    "},{"Title":"overrated and unnecessarily crude","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that got strong reviews and seems like it would be real funny and cool.  It isn't.  I almost think the reviewers were trying to prove they were in touch by acting like they liked this movie.  I was over at my mom's house for Christmas and I brought this movie for people to watch at night if they had nothing better to do. I was completely embarrassed to have to watch my  mom watch this crude, fowl, wannabe movie.  Did they think they had to make a tasteless movie to appeal to a black audience, or what?  If so, that is unbelievably condescending and stupid.  Halle Berry is beautiful, but so what?   "},{"Title":"One of the finest films to show the truth about politics in a satirical way!","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty stars in and directs this fantastic motion picture about a California State Senator who basically goes nuts because of his disillusionment with politics. Great performances from Beatty, Halle Barry, Don Cheadle, and Oliver Platt make this a remarkable film, as does Beatty's direction and screen writing. This is definitely one of 1998s best movies and it's one of the finest films I've seen to show the truth about politics in a satirical way. ***1/2 "},{"Title":"A good mix of comedy and current issues","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie yesterday on TV and I found it quite enjoyable. I had expected a dumb movie about American politics but was very pleaseantly surprised.The plot was shady at times (why couldn't Bulworth sleep for three days ? What truly powerful reason would make a man arrange for his own assassination ?) but I found it quite beautiful. The enduring problems and lack of solutions of the black men in America, the picture of a society too centered on money and keeping up appearances, the unsustainable situation of a health care and ensurance system where only the fortunate majority can be expected to have any rights.I especially enjoyed the part where Bulworth shouts out, in the midst of his rapping, Socialism !, to an audience of big finance contributors; as well as the easy-goingness that a matter as sensible as a U.S. senator smoking some pot, or an accessor getting addicted in sniffing coke, is portrayed.Bulworth's plan of continuous interracial f*****g, until all colour lines are blurred out, also seems a very reasonable plan for the elimination of social inequities...You go Bulworth ! "},{"Title":"Hilarious satire!","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm glad I got the chance to watch this again, in one of my film classes.  My first viewing was a disaster.  Not because the movie was bad, but because my dad kept complaining.  The movie contains bundles of profanity, though it's all in good taste.  But when your dad's a senior citizen and hears the f word repeated over and over and over again, taste isn't a factor. My second viewing was a lot more liberating.  I saw it in my film class with my peers, most of them around my age, and most of them seemed to enjoy it, lots of them were laughing their butts off.  It was the perfect atmosphere.  And I was also laughing my butt off.  This is a hilarious, hilarious film that anyone can enjoy, whether or not you're a fan of politics.  I know a little about politics, but I've never been a fan of it.  Yet I loved this movie.  I also like Warren Beatty, but I understand some people don't and characterize him as dull and deadpan.  Well, after watching Beatty rap, wear ghetto clothing, get high on weed and do some dirty dancing with Halle Berry--let's see how many of you STILL think he's dull and deadpan.  This is definitely a different role for Beatty, and I can actually say it was an ingenious thing to cast himself for the lead.  The supporting cast is great as well.  Some felt that Halle Berry's character wasn't really needed and that the romance between her and Beatty could've been excluded.  Maybe they're right, maybe they're wrong.  I was so engrossed in the film that the romance didn't seem like a burden to me.  And Halle did a fine job with her role, showing that she can play a glamour girl as well as a girl from the streets (her role in Jungle Fever is also evidence).  Oliver Platt steals a few scenes as Beatty's hilariously neurotic right hand man.  I love Platt, and he's high up on my list of favorite underrated actors, and this is definitely one of his best performances, though he isn't on screen that long.  Also adding to this list of supporting talent are Don Cheadle, Jack Warden, Laurie Metcalf and Paul Sorvino.This is purely a fantasy about what would happen if a politician were really to speak the truth, but it's a wonderful fantasy.  What more can I say?  This is a hilarious satire that I recommend to anyone except for the easily offended.  Go see Bulworth!My score  9 (out of 10)  P.S.  I must add that the soundtrack is hot!  It includes the song Ghetto Superstar, which I still think is a cool song.       "},{"Title":"Very good movie, but unwatchable on German...","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know, the German dubbing for this movie was so awful, it almost made me turn it off. This rap-stuff in this movie really didn't translate that well. But I'm sure this is a perfectly good movie when watched on English. I'm currently thinking if I shouldn't get this on DVD... however, even with that terrible German dubbing, it was INFINITELY better than that piece of crap Wag the Dog... "},{"Title":"Best political satire yet","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All the flaws with the democratic process Beatty brings out in this film are true. Most Americans won't like to hear them, because they prefer to remain blissfully ignorant about such things, but they should be aware of these. Why do you think nothing really changes? Why do only millionaires become top level politicians? Why does the president always have to be over 6 feet tall and have a full head of hair? How the hell did Dubya get in the White House? Oh sorry that was my own question, not from the film...Sure there are some flaws. Him rapping so well is hard to believe for a stodgy old senator, but he's drunk on lack of sleep right? People do amazing things when they are hypnotized. And of course the ending was predictable. But the message and the performances shine.The reason it wasn't more popular is it was a smart political satire with a rap soundtrack. Rappers don't want to see political satire, and older folks who would appreciate the satire don't want to hear rap. If you can get beyond that, the film is definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Warren Beatty's Best Since Reds.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty's brilliant and angry political satire has shades of Dr. Strangelove and All the President's Men written all over it. Beatty stars as a liberal who decides to have himself assassinated as he does not want to live anymore. Thus he goes out and tells the truth, or his version of it, to all around him. What follows is a film that is such a black comedy that it becomes a rough drama by its latter acts. Beatty's hilarious attempts to become a black man are used to make a point in this creative, smart and stunning motion picture experience. Beatty shows the intelligence that made Reds one of the best films of the 1980s. Bulworth also sports a supporting cast that is almost on par with Beatty's earlier masterpiece. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Inspiring, hilarious, thought-provoking, bizzare. See it.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (spoilers Not much more than what's on the back of the box.)Jay Billington Bulworth is a disillusioned, sold-out California Democratic Senator. Self-disgusted and despondent, he takes out a contract on his own life as the '96 election campaign heats up. But, with his own life soon to end, he starts telling it like it is, outrageously.Bulworth starts using profanity and rap in his campaign, dresses like a washed-up Homie G, and openly insults his constituency. But he also ditches the opportunistic Conservative Democrat mantle and launches an all-out attack on Democrats and Republicans alike, slamming the for-sale political process and openly advocating socialism (Socialism! Say that dirty word!). He never intended it, but his outrageous style catapults him ahead in the polls.Some critics focused in on Beatty's silly rapping and White Black Guy style, but that's not the point. Beatty, through his Bulworth alter ego, is saying all the things he really wants to but can't. At a fundraising dinner, he insults the movie industry burecracy and the way their greed destroys the art of filmmaking. He tells an angry black church to put down the chicken wings and get some role models besides wife-beating atheletes, and explains that he didn't help them out after a natural disaster because frankly, you just didn't give any money to my campaign.The movie's worth seeing just for a few great scenes. The opening scene, with an undernourished, despondent Bulworth watching his TV commercials over and over is powerful. The obscenity monologue on national TV is great, too.Some critics insisted that the chaotic, unfocused tone of the movie ruined it. But that's exactly the *point* -- it's not *supposed* to slick and clean, or emotionally manipulative. It hangs together with no  clear beginning or end, and a weaving storyline, because it's not meant to be a packaged Hollywood job.'Bulworth' is an ideological movie in the time of commercial cash cows as art. Even if you think everything Beatty-as-Bulworth says is bunk, it's impressive to see a movie about reality get made these days. Plus it's pretty funny. "},{"Title":"another independent for Bulworth!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  as a social studies teacher i am always looking for movies and music that express the dire situation of today's america in a voice that will a) wake kids up to the disaster we've made of the american system and b)won't leave them feeling totally hopeless about it. Bulworth manages to achieve both aims, in both the script and the soundtrack. I can't remember a movie more pertinent to the problems of america and their possible solutions, though i could never directly recommend a film to junior high students with this much profanity in it. but as the film's big monologue points out the real obscenity is the condition of our country not a cuss word. hoorahs for warren beatty who has made such an impressive film. all is forgiven for heaven can wait. "}{"Title":"Brilliant Brilliant film","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty made one of the best films of 1998 with this dark satire. Beatty not only made a good drama, he made a romantic film, a comedy with hip hop overtones among other things. The cast is excellent in particular Don Cheadle & Halle Berry. If you haven't seen this one check it out. "},{"Title":"great satire","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is an audacious, and at times hilarious political satire. Don't watch it expecting to see a bunch of slapstick gags and cheap jokes. The thing that makes this film so enjoyable is the way it critiques, and jokes about the political system. Beatty's sudden transformation into a rapper is also a highlight. Great fun! 3/4 "},{"Title":"Truth Hurts","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best thing about Bulworth is how honest this movie is. Despite Warren Beatty (Senator Jay Billington Bulworth) rapping, which was annoying at times, this movie hits you ... in the face!! In the world we live today, this is Politics ... wether you like it or not. Despite the fact that the ending does not make sense, because in reality ... this ending would have never happened. Still the story is interesting, the movie is fast pathed, and it doesn't stop surprising you. Truth hurts, but thats the price you have to pay. I recommend this HIGHLY to everyone.   One last comment Thanks for mentioning that the American Government cares about Arabs when Oil (money) is involved, but otherwise it doesn't give a damn. Well said. Very true. An extra mark for this one.8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent flick darkly humorous satire w top performances.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  wow... check out the other comments - this movie doesn't half polarise its audience. Not surprising; it's an unusual film, doesn't sit comfortably in either comedy or drama categories. Edgy and a little surreal. Beatty's protagonist is something of an anti-hero but his performance is compelling; Beatty plays him very dryly and it somehow makes it work...Really enjoyed it. Even enjoyed the rap music throughout though I wouldn't normally listen to that kinda thing; gave the movie an extra edge and somehow worked along with the standard film-score to great effect.Flawed but edgy and darkly compelling. See it if you don't mind lots of swearing, politics, and the possibility you may not like it. Beatty has taken risks here. "},{"Title":"Rappin' the Truth","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What Crazy People was to advertising, Bulworth is to politics!  Warren Beatty made this a funny and intelligent movie.  On the surface, you hear a white politician rapping and cursing like any garden variety gansta rapper.  But listening to the lyrics, you hear him telling the truth about politics, industry, and all the world's ills.  And isn't that what we really want to hear from politicians?  Warren Beatty has tread on controversial ground here, but he has made his point well! "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh, My God! I rented this movie for the first time last week and, WHOA, was I in for a pleasant surprise. This film is one of the most entertaining movies I have ever seen. It is perfectly cast, very funny, even touching! And let me just say that it was hilarious to hear Warren say the line ...would you prefer motherf*cker, motherf*cker?This movie is just so good! I have (in one week) watched it 4 times! I just can't get enough of it! I recommend it to absolutely everyone (who isn't offended by the strong language).I rank this movie a 9.5 out of 10. (Just one scrap of a notch below Screamers and Memento, the only 2 movies I have ever given a 10 to.) "},{"Title":"A brave look at politics and racism, with a dopey white guy rapping...","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a fan of satires in general, so I made a rental try out of Bulworth one night.  I don't think I'll see it again, but I definitely needed to see it once.  It's the same kind of story as the wonderful Network...powerful man is released of his inhibitions by his pending desire to do away with his life, and so is released to tell the truth about things.  The difference is where Network targeted television and media, Bulworth aims for the trickier subjects of race and politics.  So this is a political bore-a-thon, right, with more of Beatty's (and Hollywood's) liberal rhetoric?  You'd be about a quarter right, but still mostly wrong.Beatty seems to revel in his uptight white-ness, creating a character cringe-worthy in his rap attempts, yet somehow lovable and sincere in his aims to help the african-americans he's come to know.  This makes the film's attempts at racial reconciliation realistically raw (whatever the alliteration) and totally refreshing.  You get the feeling that if more politicians who claim to be 'for' their constituents actually understood them like this, politics would be in better shape.When Bulworth decides to take the satirical knife to the ways of politics, its results are more hit-and-miss.  The movie tends to be more accurate when it condemns both Democratic and Republican policies, claiming they both miss the point on so many things, as well in its blasting of special interest groups, whose money make the politicians' wheels go round.  Beatty's answers ring false, however, with solutions like socialized medicine that won't work either.  There's still a good bit of truth to be gleaned here, if with a more careful eye.My suggestion for watching Bulworth is to see it if you either have a penchant for political satire, or a strange desire to see a big white dork in baggy pants pretend he's hip.  I found both quite enjoyable, your milage may vary.  (Note the profanity count is pretty darn high, which would normally turn me off, but is applicable in such a movie attempting to portray rap culture.  Deal with it if you can, or just don't watch if it gets to you.) "},{"Title":"Best political movie I've ever seen","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was hilarious, entertaining and thought provoking.  Warren Beatty rapping is a sight to see.  The final message is a little cheesy but a good one.  If anyone out there thinks they've seen a more entertaining movie about politics, let me know.  Very, very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Warren Beatty Did It Again, But Now Even Better!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw it on a sneak preview, but it never showed on the theaters here in Sweden. It's about senator Bulworth, who has ordered his own death. In three days, someone will kill him. But then, he sees the meaning in life, when he starts hanging out in the ghetto, and starts to rhyme at a press conference. Warren Beattys movie is great and hilarious! 10! "},{"Title":"Bulworth Gets My Vote!","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 	An incumbent Senator from California, on the eve of reelection, finds himself at loggerheads with his own conscience, on the verge of a nervous breakdown and unable to play the political `game' any longer.  And he decides to take drastic measures to do something about it, in `Bulworth,' one of the finest political satires ever made, written and directed by and starring Warren Beatty.  Once he makes his personal commitment to `change,' J. Billington Bulworth (Beatty) hits the campaign trail and wreaks havoc as he levels the playing field by introducing a unique concept into the political arena  Truth and honesty.  He proceeds to single-handedly give political incorrectness new definition; and no one is safe as he launches his barrage against every possible bastion of former untouchables, from big business, big money and the entertainment industry, to invasive, unethical media, to unemployment and welfare.  Before he's through he gets up close and personal with his constituents in South Central L.A., gets down with the brothers (not to mention the sisters) and, much to the chagrin of his campaign manager, Murphy (Oliver Platt), he begins to `rhyme' (rap) his speech.  It's politics like you've never seen it before, in fact or fiction, and it's an exhilarating sight to behold. 	Beatty really hits his mark as the politician whose monumental decision to play a reversal of `Faust' gives him new energy and new life, the only downside being that he must also deal with consequences of the inevitable outcome of the `Weekend research project' he has so (as he begins to think) imprudently initiated.  It's a dynamic performance underscored with nuance and infused with Beatty's own charismatic personality, which he successfully gives over to the character entirely.  It's tough not to like Bulworth; he has flash, a winning smile and almost a sense of wonderment that carries him along as he addresses issues head-on and dead-on, like what is more obscene, the four-letter words he uses to make his point, or the ever widening gap between the rich and the middle class, with rising unemployment caused by big-moneyed conglomerates locating on foreign land in order to jack up prices and profits, while decimating the economic base of the working class here at home.  It's a full-out frontal assault, and Bulworth pulls no punches as he manages to insult and alienate just about everyone around him; and overnight, he gains in the polls like never before.  Beatty the actor `is' Bulworth the politician, and you've just got to like this guy. 	Oliver Platt, who has emerged as one of the finest character actors in recent memory (in the same company as William H. Macy, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Kevin Corrigan and Steve Buscemi), plays the young, upwardly-mobile professional Murphy to the hilts; he plays it straight, which makes his confused reactions to Bulworth's sudden change in direction very real and absolutely hilarious.  He makes Murphy a truly memorable character.  Halle Berry (Nina) is outstanding as well, giving a performance of sultry intensity that makes the screen sizzle. There's real chemistry between her and Beatty, and the intelligence she brings to the character of this young woman from the &#145;hood is refreshing; it avoids any hint of stereotype, which adds to the overall credibility of the proceedings. 	A supporting cast made in cinematic heaven includes Jack Warden (Eddie), Christine Baranski (Constance), Sean Astin (Gary), Don Cheadle (L.D.), Nora Dunn (Missy), Paul Sorvino (Graham), Isaiah Washington (Darnell) and Laurie Metcalf (Mimi).  With `Bulworth.' Beatty proves himself the consummate artist (if there was ever any doubt); he makes you laugh till you cry while delivering an entertaining, moral tale without any preaching or pretentiousness whatsoever.  This is a gem of a movie that will make you think and feel good at the same time.  Warren Beatty and the entire cast and crew should get a standing ovation for bringing this one to the screen.  Regardless of your own political preferences, this is one movie that should be seen by all.  I rate this one 10/10.              	   	     "}{"Title":"nasty political satire","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A burned-out presidential candidate decides to campaign by his own rules. Brutal comedy attacks American politics with convincing sleazy characters, dramatic twists and searing but foul-mouthed script. (Rating A) "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought I was going to be bored by Warren Beatty's work instead I found it very interesting and daring in the current climate.The film produces the brutal but obvious truth about politics. A lot of politicians are scum, they promise the world yet they will never deliver. Some of the speeches may be presented in a 'rap' fashion but the contents are very true and exposes the political world. I don't agree with socialism, it really only works if you are rich but the other aspects of the film are interesting. It's a social commentary. It's a sad reflection.Beatty is excellent, his direction is composed very well. His writing isn't too shabby either.The other performances are very good, Oliver Platt is brilliant and so is Halle Berry.I can see why people wouldn't like this film, but there is a strong commentary about our current political world, should be watched by everyone. "},{"Title":"It's time to open your eyes...","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lot of people watching this movie may feel the need to warble endlessly about the evils of socialism and why Beatty is so wrong to air his views so flagrantly.  I believe that the movie is not simply a political statement, but a statement about humanity and the way of the world.  At no point does he placate blame on any one in isolation.  Beatty is talking about everyone and that means you to a lesser or greater extent.Overall, this is a very handsome, dark satire about the ills of the world. It made me laugh at times... but overall, it filled me with sadness.Anything that makes me think has got to be a good thing. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie I have Ever Seen","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bullworth is the absolutely the WORST movie I have ever seen.  It is sad to see fine actors like Warren Beatty and Halle Berry in such a tasteless movie.  While I am not a prude, the stand out characteristic of this movie was the extreme profanity in virtually every line.  I would not recommend anyone even see this on video (like I did).  It's not worth it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Clintonesque parody","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty has made some rubbish in his time, some watchable films as well along the way - however this was the best I've seen him.Politician Bulworth Beatty has taken out a huge insurance policy on himself, and then pays a hitman to knock himself off, without taking into account that he'd fall in love in the meantime with Halle Berry.Perturbed by still being marked for death, Beatty goes out, gets very drunk and begins rapping and ... telling the truth to constituents.The shockingly bad Primary Colors was supposed to be the parody of 90's American political life and Clinton's presidency in particular, but Beatty steals the show with his excellent performance, both as a star and as a director.Superb film, and deserves viewing again and again.  "},{"Title":"Daring, hilarious, intelligent, but sadly truthful","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bulworth is a daring movie to be made.  It deals with the film industry, Welfare, insurance companies, big government, and more.  J. Bulworth (Warren Beatty) is a Californian Senator running for reelection to another term in Washington.  Something inside of him snaps at all of the corrupt things going on and he turns into an insulting, truth-speaking, all-out radical from a quiet democrat overnight.  That's the basic plot line.  Bulworth tells it like it is and doesn't care who hears it or how they're going to feel about it.  The movie makes daring references to the everlasting inequality in our society, and how little, or how much against it, politicians are doing.  The senators are in the insurance companies' pockets, while going on in the other side of town, twelve-year-old's are running drugs.  Things are said in this movie that truly make a person realize how bad things are.  It is a great movie, and some of Beatty's best work. "},{"Title":"Important message hidden in the jokes, no ?","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I decided to watch this after Beatty's speech at this year's Oscars. I was intruiged. A Hollywood player with a soul left intact ? I was pleasantly surprised by this work, which from the trailers I presumed to be irrelevant, even embarrassing, what with the dorky rapping and silly looking story.What I found instead was... he puts all  things we all know are happening out there.( I'm talking to those of us who are at least trying to take the blinkers off and have begun... the reprogramming ). The same people Kubrick pointed us towards in his final misunderstood masterpeice. Or Goddard throws in your face oh so beautifully, unapologetically  pretentiously, honestly... we know they're running the show. That they've bought all the puppets. That the real 'news' will never make through their ideology mill.That there's one sure way to see if they at least made the military industrial complex sweat  for a second- just look for the magic bullet. We know the euphemisms gangsters use- the 'health' , the 'insurance' , the 'defense' industies. We know who the real gangsters are. But. Baby do we still care?Do you care?Someone once said- people get the leadership they deserve. If we know they're multi-nat talking heads, if we know  the planet is oh so slowly, insideously, undeniably dying... that those little 'news' items flashed threataningly at the western rank and file ( you know- starving children with bloated stomachs in some distant land )- best pay up on that 'insurance'... if we know those 'news' items in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe,in South America- that those are real children crying and dying...then why, oh why...am I still talking about it. Why is Mr. Beatty ? What are we afraid of ?Sorry if I bummed you out. Didn't mean ta. Hope this gets out there, even if it is a tad... out there. "},{"Title":"putting the real contenders to shame","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty comes into his own when given complete freedom. Directing for the first time since DICK TRACY, the liberal icon is very much on familiar turf with BULWORTH. The surprise is that it may be the best film he has ever made.Films from the Hollywood system just do not rage against the machine like BULWORTH. Age, reputation, and wealth have done nothing to weary one of the few insiders to the Hollywood system who are truly free to express themselves totally. But I can't think of a film ever which has involved an audience in what is essentially one mans trip to the abyss and back so effectively.The film smoothly shifts gears from comic realisation to social anger. It is only ever plays awkwardly when concerned with an unneccesary action sub-plot.Beatty needn't have bothered. BULWORTH may have trailed a couple of so-called 'political satires' (WAG THE DOG, PRIMARY COLORS) into the cinema and missed the commercial boom. But it leaves the pretenders in its wake. Astute and awake, it puts any presidential contender to shame. "},{"Title":"Sleazy politico changes horses in the middle of the creek","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent film showing the cheap side of politics in what appeared to be a factual tell-all. Big money rules over life and death, and when Bulworth decides to give the game away his political friends are no longer so nice. One of the blackest comedies I've ever seen. 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"You MUST see this movie.","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you have not yet seen 'Bulworth' do so a.s.a.p. 'Bulworth' is incredible movie, it should be noted not only for carrying a worthy message but for the manner in which it does. The message in the movie hits hard but it entertains on several levels while doing it. I don't care how you see it, rent it, buy it, see it on tv, go to a friend's house and steal it, just see it, see it twice, show it to your family, show it to your neighbors give it out a birthday present to a total stranger, it isn't often hollywood makes a truly good film, but they've hit it dead on with 'Bulworth'. This is one hollywood film that is worth the time it takes to watch it several times over, Warren Beaty has done great things with his film. "}{"Title":"Even Better 2 Years Later.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theatre, and have now just watched it again on Cinemax this evening.   I loved it then and I love it now - Warren Beatty is a kick-ass son-bitch in it!  And Miss Halle Berry is a knock-out great actress!!  Watch it, and you will know what this 'cracker' is talking about.   BUT, I still did not totally understand the ending of this movie.  If anyone wants to e-mail me with their take on it, please feel free.  'Cause after two times through, I still didn't get it - or maybe I am just living by that river in Egypt, 'denial'.  "},{"Title":"This film was the equivalence of sitting in a Dentist's waiting room without any magazine or book to read...","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ugh. This was dreadful. With all the promos and reviews it looked like a pretty decent movie. It's important to never judge a book by its cover, in reference to something that would, at first, give you a bad impression a good impression can be misleading just the same. This was described a message movie -- which, because it's a message movie -- cannot be enjoyed or throughly appreciated unless you brainstorm on what's being stressed and then take it as a form of amusement(Find a personality in an ugly puppy.) Unfortunately in this case, you can't do that, because the film's satiric demeanor was so utterly mundane and recycled that it wasn't even subtle. The plot was next to nonexistent, and each character was never really focused on enough to be interesting or sympathetic. It was also never explained why WB's character Jay Bulworth was depressed, except that it was written to be that way in the script. Post the tragic finale, you emotionally feel no different in your opinions, whatsoever. Here's the hard part If you were to describe the plot of this movie, what would it be? Politician spends majority of his life jamming in Hip Hop Clubs and nothing else?  Politician decides to spew anti-Semitic rhetoric and stand up for the brotha because he thinks their way of life needs to be celebrated and improved? Fill in the blank...When was the last time Warren Beatty made a decent movie? Damn. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty going hiphop? Yes indeed. In Bulworth we get to see and hear Beatty, or at least Jay Bulworth (senator in California), rap. However, I'm not here to comment on Bulworth's flow or rhymes&#133; -)Bulworth is a very funny movie. Even though it drags somewhat in the beginning and in the middle it is still a very funny comedy. Some jokes, however, are repeated too many times, which is a shame since the jokes *were* funny the first time. The acting is mostly great, Beatty is very funny and entertaining, as is Oliver Platt. If you ask me, Don Cheadle isn't in the movie enough, but in the few scenes he is in he is brilliant, as always. Possible spoiler. The ending is quite unexpected which is rather refreshing. I'd give this entertaining film 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"       The truth at last.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is very good.I found bulworth to make you think.He says what he has always thought.He pulls no punchs.The SYSTEM is shown to be phony.He shows people that both parties don't care about them.You are a vote nothing more.Warren gives his best effort.I think we all need to see the fim several times to get the full meaning of it.The ending is strange though. "},{"Title":"The best political comedy ever","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am such a huge fan of Warren Beatty films because of his utter contempt for anything rotten.  Not a rotten script, performance, direction, and especially the plot.  In this film he really makes you laugh at politics...more than usual.  He tells the truth about everything and that is what is so funny.  Halle Berry, Don Cheadle, Oliver Platt, and especially Laurie Metcalf are all excellent and hilarious.  This was a truly Oscar-snubb this year.  Warren Beatty's performance should have been nominated for Best Actor. "},{"Title":"extremely unpleasant with a couple of giggles","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pity, as I really wanted to like this film.  Haven't seen Warren Beatty in a film for yonks, but was dismayed to see him in this.  His storyline was obvious, but unbelievable. Do we really have to put up with this prolonged assault of foul language?  Enough is enough - I just cannot be entertained listening to this type of stuff.  Please film makers tone down the language. I know the Brothers street language may be a little crude, but not everyone wants to hear it, even in the name of realism.Mr Beatty -I was ashamed for you............ "},{"Title":"I saw it, and did not like it. I would not recommend it, and here's the reasons...","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For one thing, this movie was promoted to be a comedy It wasn't. Many elements were stereotypical and depressing, and most of the time it was more meandering than endearing. Enormously overrated, unfocused, and self confident, the movie does absolutely nothing for the viewer.Set in California in 1996, fictional Democratic Senator Jay Billington Bulworth (Beatty) is a suicidal politico who hires his own hitman as he runs for reelection. The story mixes commentary with the supposed realities of campaigning, black lifestyles, and class roles, but the result is a complete mess. I don't see any secret service guards around, and somehow, Beatty goes from being this stuck-up old timer to a hip, gangsta-trendy yahoo dating Halle Berry and making a rap out of a political message.  Might be a little bit clever, but who said that makes up for a boring and incoherent film?The sad thing about this movie is that it had so much potential You have Warren Beatty, who has at least been directing and acting in a 40 year time period, yet his latest film is a piece of crap. Unless you are a big fan of loud rap music and gratuitous jive talk, this film is a confused disappointment.My advice Skip it and see `All The President's Men' and `Wag the Dog' instead.   "},{"Title":"Funny or simply over the top?","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't quite make up my mind whether this was supposed to be a comedy or not.  If it is than Warren Beatty's performance is very good.  If it's not meant to be a comedy then the performance was over the top and verging on the silly.  An enjoyable film nonetheless.  "},{"Title":"Delivering socio-political commentary through entertainment, stylistically compromised to permit greater accessibility","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In my opinion, BULWORTH at its core can be viewed as an artist trying to make a statement via his film, using the same approach as Charlie Chaplin's final speech in GREAT DICTATOR and Paul's reply to Jesus in Martin Scorsese's adaption of THE LAST TEMPTATION OF Christ. In GREAT DICTATOR, Charlie Chaplin was misidentified as Hitler, and he was given the opportunity to make a public speech to the world. Chaplin stepped up, cleared his throat, and delivered one of the unforgettable speeches in cinema about peace and freedom. In the case of THE LAST TEMPTATION OF Christ, Paul would rather bury the truth of Christ's existence, endorsing that faith in Jesus is more important than whether Jesus' resurrection really occurred. Both Chaplin and Scorsese had something which they felt compelled to communicate via their art, and although both deliveries felt contrived and unrealistic, this approach ensures that the point is understood by the audience.Now, I am not here to discuss the merit of this force-feed approach (frankly, I think it's rather crude...), nor am I here to assess the merit of Warren Beatty's statement (OK, I admit it oversimplifies the situation...). I am merely pointing out that Bullworth takes the same approach as Chaplin and Scorsese did in making a personal commentary, in this case the government (specifically, the democratic party) doesn't care about the people, and never will be able to, as long as corporate millionaires are influencing their decisions. In this respect, I believe that BULWORTH should not be critiqued on the basis of realism, but rather on its effectiveness in making the viewer contemplate about our current political environment. After all, at the core of every art, its purpose is to make people THINK, granted that from an artistic perspective, the artist value remains important (which BULWORTH has very little), but from a practical point of view, its maximum impact is what matters to the world.In short, BULWORTH is a political commentary delivered in-your-face with typical annoying Hollywood conventions. I cringed at the few laughably unlikely scenarios which defy any sense of realism; at the same time I was entertained; in the end I was rooting for Senator Bulworth, and the film had its share of impact on me. Most of the time when a movie is as shamelessly contrived on the surface as BULWORTH, I wouldn't have anything nice to say about it. The saving grace of this film is its underlying heart. It could have been more subtle and more intelligent, but in the process of such elaboration BULWORTH would compromise its ability to reach a wider audience with an important message. "},{"Title":"What a load of rubbish!","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most over hyped and over rated film in years. I have never watched a film and been so appalled at such a weak story and such poor acting. Come on Warren, surely you can do better than this rubbish? Maybe not - look at Dick Tracy. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Film of the 1990s","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot praise this film enough. It totally amazed me when I saw it in 2000. Never have I seen such a film about race, politics and delusion in late 20th Century America as this one. It's all here. Magnificent. Oh and My God isn't Halle Berry just right in this role. Bulworth say more than most American films about sex, politics, race, language, compromise and conviction through its extraordinary critique of media politics... I would expect a film like this from a European Director... and in the absence of that, there is the great Warren Beatty to show us the lies America lives with very brave and gutsy film about desire and dread.  "},{"Title":"Great idea but failed","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The basic theme of this movie was a great idea.  Unfortunately it wasn't developed properly.  If you'd delete the f words from this film, you'd have almost no dialogue left. If Warren would check out the great films of the 1940's, he'd see you can make a great film without the trash language.  "},{"Title":"Beatty--Trapped In the Sixties (Spoilers)","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Warren Beatty once again places himself on the Hollywood pulpit to preach to the American masses about what is wrong with them and can only be cured by himself, the wealthy, powerful elite. Oh, Beatty, bestow to us the wisdom that comes only from being part of the oh so enlightened entertainment industry. Can you sense my disappointment? Let me begin why I am taking such a rather sarcastic tone. Warren Beatty plays Sen. Jay Bulworth who finds on the eve of his reelection campaign that he has become disenfranchised with his own beliefs and hires a hit out on himself as he spends his last days speaking the raw truth at campaign stops. Sounds like a winner, right? Wrong. Why does Beatty's attempt at modern political satire fail? Let me begin with his politics, which are hopelessly outdated. His type of damn the man, power to the people rhetoric maybe made some sense in the sixties and seventies when every high-school civics student wanted to grow their hair long and become a hippie, but now his black and white absolutism dilutes the arguments and shows just how sheltered he has become. Let's see, all White, Rich men are hateful pigs and bigots, while poor drug dealers are the beleaguered masses who commit crimes only so they may make ends meet and deep down will melt if you buy them ice cream. Homeless men deliver sage like wisdom, and insurance CEOs are so evil that they will shoot a man from the roof of a building. This type of race war baiting and class warfare propaganda might have made sense to naive and angry teens who have no kernel of knowledge of the real world, but for a man as old as Beatty, it is childish and one sided. There is no discussion, merely the propagandizing of a man who does not realize that the world has passed him by. Now, I believe most people realize--like many political commentators and theorists--that the magic wand answer does not exist, and Socialism is yet another flawed system as is its equal, but opposite, Free Trade Capitalism. And the true evil? Well, in my mind it is Government growing too big for its britches, but that's just me. The second reason his message fails is beyond content and strikes directly at its execution. Beatty is not seen as a desperate man trying to speak the truth, but more of a messiah figure. Yes, Beatty actually has the gumption to evoke the names of people like Huey Newton while at the same time positioning himself as a modern civil rights leader. He even goes so far as having Bulworth become enamored of Hip Hop and (in a series of truly embarrassing scenes) begins rapping and dressing like some sub-MTV gangster. Here we hit rock bottom as we see the grotesque nature of Beatty's egocentricity as he imagines himself as the White savior of the underclass (which itself stinks of the upper- class guilt that seems to power this charade like fossil fuel) and defeats his message by deeming Blacks unfit to help themselves with the Great White Hope Proxy to help them along. What more, Beatty exposes an unnecessary White shame, since Bulworth is essentially a man who wishes to be Black, and portrays all Whites as inherently evil (even the Black gangster is seen as an Angel underneath) which itself is offensive not only because of it's anti-White rhetoric, but also of the insinuation that to believe in equal rights, one only need to listen to Rap music and they automatically understand everything. Oh? So an entire race of people are defined entirely by one musical genre? How insulting. But, not as insulting as Beatty's final waving middle finger at the audience, when he dares to martyr Bulworth as a modern, White, Martin Luther King Jr. when he is assassinated in a reenactment of King's death. Don't believe me? Just compare the two, the shots fired from behind, from a rooftop. The terrified people pointing towards the source to find the gunman missing. It's all there, and is a truly gut- wrenchingly offensive display of celebrity ego to tarnish the name of that great man by evoking his death for gratification of an overvalued sense of self-worth. Beatty thinks rather highly of himself, doesn't he? The only good thing is that he enraged Racial Seperatist Spike Lee with his display of an interracial romance. That's good, but it's been done before. And as much as that is important, the best is when it is shown as normal. Not that intelligent discussion of the real life impactions of such as romance is not important, but sometimes just treating it like a thing is just as powerful as when you show it as controversial. But, for Beatty, that would require him to pull his head out of the sand and admit the world is more than black and white. And that he has shown himself incapable of. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking??????","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had to be one the worst I have ever seen, and I have seen some bad movies... There was absolutely no flow whatsoever!  The scenes moved from one to another without a care or a purpose.  I had no idea what the producers were thinking, but they certainly were not thinking about entertainment, or even a quality picture.  This movie gets four thumbs down, and that's just from me. "},{"Title":"Good political satire?  Maybe.  Good movie?  Good grief, no!","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My son and I maintain a top 10 movie list according to our own tastes.  We have never done a bottom 10 movie list but if I were to construct one, it would fall in the worst 4-5 I have ever seen.  The language is offensive and his character is obnoxious and totally beyond empathy.  The Black nightclub scene seemed interminable.  We couldn't stand to watch the whole thing and fast forwarded to the end to see what happened.  The hand pointing to the empty roof was a cutesy reproduction of a historic event.  The ending was appropriate and not without pleasure.  I expected to like it, already knowing the premise, but I think only  radical Warren Beatty fans would find it entertaining. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The buzz on Bulworth was that it was a daring, honest and amusing comedy that boldly confronted political taboo. I was excited to watch it, but was genuinely amazed at how absolutely terrible it was. Bulworth is a foul-mouthed, rapping politician who espouses woolly left-wing/liberal platitudes and who would last under 2 seconds in the real political arena. Most of his policies would amazingly unpopular and, it must be said, wrong. He trots out gangsters to back up his hardcore truths, and the effect is laughable. This movie was extraordinarily painful to watch.  "},{"Title":"Good grief...!","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't really want to bother commenting on this stinker - but seeing how the current set of votes park the movie in an almost 'must see' bracket I have to interject. So, deep breath... What on earth were they thinking? By 'they' I mean everyone who was involved in this turgid nonsense. Sure it has some reasonable social commentary, but it's all wrapped up in an absurdly, childish premise combined with quite the worst performance I think I've seen from an established, confident actor. He raps? Craps more like. It's so bad I wouldn't know where to begin, so here's a summary of the pluses and minuses - Pluses... um... it's in color... okay, minuses... it's a boring, nonsensical, badly directed, amateurishly edited, unbelievably mediocre, rambling, story-less, glowingly foolish waste of time and money (i.e. yours). It's so god-awful that if this movie were to step in dog pooh, the pooh would wipe IT off it's shoe. Please believe me when I say you MUST avoid this rubbish. "},{"Title":"Bulworth-less--a totally reprehensible film.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Bulworth' is one of the most contemptible movies I have ever seen. It is the product of an overblown ego, one which belongs to Warren Beatty. Like Diogenes, it seems that Beatty has been looking for an honest man but can't find one--except for himself, of course. So he's decided to enlighten us with the truth, as dispensed by St. Warren.His method of doing this in this film is through a U.S. senator who makes up his mind to tell the truth no matter what. Basically, it boils down to this Rich and powerful people have more influence than the poor and ordinary. Whatever valid points he has are lost in the shrill, dogmatic delivery of his message; his speeches sound like something from an SDS meeting at Columbia or UC-Berkeley in 1968, and they could be challenged by any competent debate student. Besides his broadsides against such things as the insurance industry, he takes a totally insulting slap at Jews, charging them with ruining the entertainment industry.As a medium for his message, Beatty/Bulworth decides to embrace African-American culture. Like a good limousine liberal (or a benevolent plantation owner) he loves those poor black folk. They're so funky and have such inherent wisdom, you know. Of course, they need a Great White Leader to show them the way, since they're incapable of doing it themselves. Guess who that is.One would think then, that Beatty's movie wouldn't deliver such a stereotypical and yes, racist portrait of blacks in America. Black culture is pictured exclusively as South Central L.A. hip-hop culture and practically every black character seen onscreen is an actual or quasi-criminal. It's a disgusting presentation. What's as bad as that is Beatty/Bulworth putting on ghetto fashions and attempting to rap. This is both nauseating and excruciatingly embarrassing. Perhaps Beatty should think about paying reparations to the black community for ripping off their culture in such a shameless and shoddy manner.Bulworth becomes a populist hero in this film, making me think Beatty is somewhat delusional as well. At least he had the presence of mind to realize an actual run for the presidency was not a good idea. That would be as bad a joke as 'Bulworth' is. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie Of The Year","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of self-important mess that you should come to expect from Hollywood.  The limousine liberals don't have a problem with children selling crack and carrying guns.  Of course, all they need is a little ice cream.  Warren Beatty has it all figured out and he's going to tell it like it is.  Apparently, he has a pretty decent view from his gated fortress in Beverly Hills.  If we'd all just start snorting drugs and talking in rhymes, we'd all get along much better.  So sayeth the gospel according to Warren Beatty.This film is the most agonizing mid-life crisis I've ever had to the misfortune to witness.  After a fairly interesting opening ten minutes, the picture nose dives into an endless, deafening gangsta-club scene where Warren Beatty's transformation from Senator to Drugged Out Rapping Whitey is complete.  Suprisingly, there's no scene with the good Senator loading the backseat of his limo with bass heavy speakers so he drives around and annoys the hell out of everyone within earshot, but I'm sure he considered it. There just wasn't enough time.  He had to run around on drugs rapping the truth to the uninitiated, and that's not just the fat, cigar chomping insurance monsters who were probably slum lords in a previous life.  It's the audience, too.  We don't know anything.  They don't know anything. Nobody knows anything except for Mr. Beatty and the kids with the guns. They know.  And they're going to tells us how it is.Every frame of this miserable, wretched, god-awful mess was the worst kind of torture I've ever endured.  The fact that this screenplay was nominated for an Oscar speaks volumes about the state of movies today (it ain't good). "},{"Title":"Sixty-something rich, white guy raps -- how original...not","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting great things from this film from the trailers which advertised Beatty speaking the truth to a black congregation.  But what I got was two hours of one sight gag -- a rich, old white guy rapping and jiving in the hood in an effort to enlighten the audience.  One example of Bulworth's notions to improve the world is that we should all just keep having sex with each other until we're all the same color.  How brilliant!  If we're all the same color, we won't have to use our minds anymore to appreciate the differences of each race.  As a racially homogenous society, we will all be the same color and life will be beautiful because we'll all be the same -- I think Hitler had a similar idea.According to the gospel of Bulworth, gun-toting juvenile delinquents can be reformed by simply buying them an ice-cream cone.  And if white people would only dress like crack-dealers, snort cocaine and rap their way through life, they'd endear themselves into the hearts of black Americans everywhere.As someone who lives in the inner-city and faces its rigors on a daily basis, I must say that Warren Beatty has unintentionally managed to illustrate exactly what a limosine liberal he really is -- stereotyping blacks and whites while trying to prove how with it an old, rich, white guy from Beverly Hills can really be. "}{"Title":"Childish, unsubtle political propaganda, unintentionally hilarious","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very funny film, because it is so ridiculous.  It is a very sad reflection of American society that this has received so many high marks.  I have lost all respect for Beatty.  God help us all if he becomes president. "},{"Title":"The worst movie of the 90s; one of the worst movies ever","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bulworth  0*.  (1998, USA, PG, ??? min. Directed by and starring Warren Beatty with Halle Berry, Don Cheadle, Paul Sorvino, Jack Warden). The mystery, there is none.  We know that Jay Bulworth (Beatty) has hired a hit man to end his troubles.  It's really too bad the hit doesn't succeed early in the film.  The love story?  It's one of my favorites.  Old man is depressed; decides to kill himself.  But wait, a good-looking young-thing (about one-third his age) beds him and he's ready to live again.  It's nice to see that even guys like Warren have maybe not-so-real fantasies.  Or are they real?  Is depression a babe magnet?  And, the politics; this is the worst part of the film. Listening to Bulworth, (really Beatty, I suspect) as he extols the virtues of socialism.  Hey Warren! Look around. Socializing the medical system is not going to change things for the better.  And, does anyone really believe that black men have to sell cocaine because Burger King pays minimum wage?  Using the government to redistribute wealth is older than the Bible.A dumb mystery, an unbelievable love/sex fantasy, and left-wing, pinko-commie political rap (Yes, Warren raps his politics after falling in love/lust with an Afro-American woman Berry.)  I can't recommend anything about this movie.  "},{"Title":"What a piece of trash","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen the trailer for the movie, I thought it would be a farcical romp through the political system we know today.However, it turned out to be another message from Hollywood, in celluloid form.Feeling freed from the shackles of political correctness, and doomed to a death he himself planned (another glamorization by Hollywood about how to handle life, I guess), we have a politician (Beatty) speaking out against the political system he exists in.So far so good?!?!?!Then it gets really ridiculous.  A white man (Senator at that) suddenly becomes a homey!!!!!!  And to the adoration of all that is represented by the depths of depravity that symbolizes Hollywood, California,  gets re-elected.All the while we are subjected to him speaking in rap rhyme, all his staffers are smoking, drinking, and doing coke, and he's beginning an adulterous affair---somehow justified because his wife is having one, too. This must be how Hollywood wants us to handle escaping from not being able to handle the adversity we create or are confronted with. "},{"Title":"Bullpucky","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of two alleged motion pictures that I have voluntarily failed to view to completion in my half century plus of movie attendance. Except for a paltry few humorous moments, one of the most worthless efforts ever put to celluloid. But what else can you expect when you allow a shallow thinking, self congratulatory, egocentric like Beatty to run amok with a typewriter. WB, long a Hollywood darling, exposed himself as the personification of the Emperor's new clothes, and the real life equivalent of Being There's Chauncey. Senseless, gratuitously profane, extravagantly offensive and worst of all, gut wrenchingly boring, to the extent that only the most avid devotees of Beatty's crabbed philosophical views could appreciate it. As it sludged painfully on, getting worse with each scene, I found myself wondering what could possess any homo sapien writer with an IQ above 50 to continue to disgorge this bile with absolutely no smattering of socially redeeming value. Fortunately my psychological defensive mechanisms have succeeded in blurring this grotesque memory over the past seven years to the point where I can now bear to write about it without initiating gross reflux. Can you tell I didn't like it? Want a succinct review? Bullworthless. "},{"Title":"Dreadful , self - indulgent schlock  BULWORTH","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ( 2 0 March 2 0 0 9 , Friday ) - - I won ' t dismiss BULWORTH simply because of WARREN BEATTY ' s consistently underwhelming portrayal ; that is commonplace in most all his films . Despite which , REDS was an unexpectedly decent film , albeit less - than - forthcoming as to the compromising truths about JOHN REED and LOUISE BRYANT . IMDb asserts that AARON SORKIN was a collaborator on the screenplay for ' Bulworth ' , which surprises me not at all . Sorkin ' s work exhibits the worst of snobby liberal ideology coupled with drug - induced paranoia , HUNTER S . THOMPSON minus the bawdy laughs . I went to see ' Bulworth ' in the belief that any film which depicts an aging Warren Beatty in ' gangsta ' garb will at least have the virtue of being amusing . Alas , I may actually have gotten more laughs  one  from SCAVENGER HUNT , also one of the worst films in memory . ' Bulworth ' , along with TOWN AND COUNTRY , foreshadowed Beatty ' s apparent semi - retirement , altogether appropriate for a mannequin with delusions of adequacy . "}]