[{"Title":"It's officially the best film ever made.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"228 out of 284 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is one of the best films ever made, if not the best! That's right, I'm making a bold statement but it's true. Clearly many of you here will disagree, but when you've seen the evidence that I put forward I don't think you'll be able to argue1)	The Godfather The Godfather was less believable than Deep Rising and also lacked such things as multi barrelled assault rifles, jet skis and huge torpedoes. Deep rising however, did not.2)	Raging Bull No half-digested/half alive bodies, no engine room full of bloody bones or cool looking harpoon guns. Deep Rising had all these things.3)	Citizen Kane A worthy try, but in the end Orson Welles decision to omit massive underwater squid monsters, left this film floundering. Deep Rising came up trumps in this department.4)	Casablanca Fails to deliver on every account. Most notably, no one gets pulled down a toilet. Again, Deep Rising excels.The sad thing is that if the Colour Purple had included a raid on a sinking cruise liner, infested with sub aqua monsters as part of the film, then it too would have climbed to the top of my favourite movie list. But as with most films the director took the easy way out and chose to ignore this very overlooked area of filmmaking. In my aquatic monster/cruise liner catastrophe marking system, Deep Rising gets a colossal 4 shrimps. But the rather lacking Godfather, gets only 3 angelfish and a haddock. "},{"Title":"Stephen Sommers' best film.","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"90 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" It's just a tad better than the first Mummy, and it wees on Van Helsing like an incontinent dog.When I first saw this movie, I had no idea what to expect. I was at the cinema one night, I'd just come out of a movie--can't remember which--and I saw the poster. The tagline, Full Scream Ahead, seemed corny enough that it might be good. Then I noticed Famke Janssen was in it. Bonus. And it seemed like a good late-night B movie, to follow the one I'd just seen. I was there with a mate of mine, who was kind of indifferent. I twisted his arm, and he agreed.Two hours later, I walked out, grinning like an idiot. It's silly, cliché-heavy, and utterly predictable. This movie rocks.See, Sommers, and all the actors, KNOW that it's silly, cliché-heavy and predictable. In fact, THAT'S THE IDEA. It's also full of spot-on one-liners and gags, and the horror bits seem more intended to gross-out than to actually scare (the bit where a half-digested member of Hanover's team bursts out of one of the monsters--still alive, despite half his head being missing--is not for the weak of stomach). Most thrillers and horror movies set out to keep you on the edge of your seat, but with this one I was too busy falling out of it with laughter.Treat is...well...a TREAT as Finnegan, the rugged, all-American adventurer type. For a while I was disappointed that Bruce Campbell wasn't cast in the role, as it would have suited him perfectly. But I've since decided that Treat does a bang-up job, and deserves full praise. If he did more movies like this, I might become a fan.Kevin J. O'Connor is hilarious as the sidekick grease-monkey (and performs all the better for not having to put on a stupid accent). He gets most of the best lines. Famke is great as always. Sexy, funny, and capable in the action scenes. Anthony Heald, as the villain, is hammy and over the top (in a good way) and Wes is...well, Wes. All the goons are fine, particularly Jason Flemyng and the late Trevor Goddard. It's nice to see a good mix of nationalities in there, and the playful in-fighting amongst them is a nice touch. Their assault rifles are cool, too. Funny though, I never noticed anyone reloading...The special effects are just bad enough to work in this context, without appearing TOO lame. A few years before this movie was made, they'd have actually been considered brilliant. But Sommers realises that sometimes it's best not to actually SHOW the monsters. They swim along under the knee-deep water, the walls of the corridors buckle and threaten to collapse, gratings fly out of the floor directly behind the running characters...very effective.The climax is about as far-fetched as it's possible to get. But it's done so well that, like all this movie's flaws, it doesn't matter.If you're easily scared, this'll do the job. If you like tongue-in-cheek, B-grade action flicks, this is one to see. If you like movies that force you to think, make you change your outlook on life, and move you to tears...yeah, you should REALLY watch this. TO SEE WHAT YOU'RE MISSING OUT ON! "},{"Title":"Cheesy, but likable, popcorn flick...","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"79 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Deep Rising is a guilty pleasure of mine. It's one of those films I rented on a whim and and simply fell in love with.Is it a great film? No.Does it have a great script? Not really, and it's downright silly in parts.Does it have great acting? Eh, there's been better...But the effects are good, the characters are likable, the creature is neat, and somehow it all comes comes together to make an enjoyable B schlock horror/comedy that, in my case anyway, leaves me with a big smile on my face.Oh and as an added bonus, Famke Janssen is simply lovely in this film. Rent it on a rainy day and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Fun!  (...and nothing more)","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"69 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  If you are looking for meaning, creativity, originality, or some sort of cosmic significance, look elsewhere.This is a fun movie for that brainless Saturday evening in which you just want to relax. A fast paced ride with lots of guns, explosions, bright-red fake blood, and a big monster.This film is for those who wish only to be entertained.  Perfect after a long hard week and you need to relax.Recommended.7/10 "},{"Title":"B-movie Delight","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"44 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  There are times when nothing satisfies like a good ol' B-movie action-adventure, not meant to be deep or serious, just good excitement and fun.  Yet truly excellent B-movies are not easily come by.  This director's own Scorpion King, in fact, is a textbook example of how the formula can fail too Hollywoodized, too predictable, too tame, and not funny enough.  But before he Hollywoodized himself in Mummyland, this director (and writer!) gave us the masterful Deep Rising.  B-movie fans know who they are and what they want, and they will not be disappointed here.  I rank Deep Rising up there with the best of John Carpenter and Sam Raimi.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment for the monster fan","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I rented this recently and loved every bit of it from it's tongue in cheek extra clichéd action types to it's fabulously over the top gore. You can see here, exactly where Stephen Sommers is coming from and where he will go. The Mummy had exactly the same style and sense of humour. Treat Williams is fantastic in this. This is one under rated actor. Why is he not in more great flicks? His comedy is superb and he looks the action hero. Remember Things to do in Denver.  Anyone who likes a good old monster movie should sit back and pamper themselves with this cracking good yarn.    "},{"Title":"I care about your gun.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"43 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Unlike a lot of monster and sci-fi movies we see these days, where apologizes are constantly made and everything is politically-correct, Deep Rising is an unapolagetic rollar-coaster which only asks us to suspend our higher thinking for an hour and a half. Intelligent by no means, Stephen Sommers' movie however definately succeeds in it's intention, which is to be a straight fun adventure.Like the rest of the movie, we've seen the plot a dozen times before in different or similar forms. A square-jawed man of the sea and his wise-cracking sidekick give a group of mercenaries a ride in their PT boat to an undisclosed location somewhere out over the murky ocean. Little does the boatman know that the soldiers-for-hire are planning to knock off a massive luxury cruise liner with an assortment of assault rifles and deadly torpedo warheads. When they reach the ship though, they find it derelict, and encounter a nightmarish tentacle beast.This movie is stupid as hell, but it knows it, and just wants to take us along on its stupid ride. As mentioned before, the movie makes no apologizes. We don't get any little kids who know more than the adults running around and saving the day; instead we get piles of horrid, blood-covered skeletons and disgustingly neat scenes of half-dead victims being regurgitated by our monster villain. Speaking of the monster, its a fairly decent CGI creation, which is surprising considering how little effort can be put into putting CG creatures onto the screen in movies with anything less of a budget than Jurassic Park or The Phantom Menace.The flick is plenty fun, but where it truly lacks is the character development area. In Deep Rising, and most movies like it, a fair amount of the characters are regulated to quick two or three word descriptions which dictate everything that they do. There's The Womanizer, The Coward, The Guy Who's Scared, etc. And man, if a guys got an Austrailian or English accent..forget about it, that's his whole character right there. The two most interesting characters are Treat Williams, a third rate Bruce Willis-Mel Gibson, who nevertheless puts a likeable effort into the main hero, and the mind-numbingly beautiful Famke Jannkson as a thief the crew finds alive aboard the cruise liner.Deep Rising is a movie that knows what it wants to do, and does it well, adding some originality and excitement to a genre overflowing with badly-executed ideas and ameatuerish directing.I give Deep Rising a 6 out of 10, and I'd reccomend it to any fan of grade-B horror movies or anyone who enjoyed the 1999 remake of The Mummy. "},{"Title":"This is a GOOD movie. It does not deserve a 5.4","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"55 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Treat Williams and Kevin J. O'Connor in particular are very good. It's a low budget genre flick, but acting is excellent across the board. O'Connor is great comic relief. The monster is clichéd, but cool. Quality and care went into this movie across the board.I definitely recommend this movie without reservation. I've seen it several times on cable as well as originally on DVD, and my opinion of it has held up.Wes Studi (never bad in anything), Djimon Hounsou, and Anthony Heald (the psychologist from Silence of the Lambs) as bad guys and Anthony Heald are very competent as well.I just can't understand how this movie got only a 5.4 from users. "},{"Title":"That Thing From the Deep","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" This is one fun, intense monster movie. They blew it with the title (what the hell does Deep Rising actually mean? - Things From the Deep would have at least meant what it was), but the execution was admirable. This came out the same time as Phantoms, which depicted a lot of people disappearing on land; in this one, a lot of 'em disappear at sea, on The Argonautica, the latest fancy cruise ship. As in Phantoms, the monster is tough to kill and human beings are easy prey. Like Phantoms, this was ignored at the box office, unlike the director's later hits, The Mummy movies. But it has the same level of entertainment. The band of mercs, along with a few other reluctant tag-alongs, make for a darkly funny ensemble as they make their way through the new ship of horrors. O'Connor provides a lot of the humor with wry line delivery, but lead actor Williams is also amusing. As the corrupt ship owner, Heald also steals a scene or two, and turns out to be the only one knowledgeable (for some odd reason) on these monsters infesting the ship. The creature or creatures really are horrible to see in their work - there's some gross mass death scene stuff going on, at odds with the humor; it's almost as if the characters need that humor to keep from going crazy, though some of them do anyway. Janssen, as the main femme fatale among the macho men, does some of her best work here. There's a good, chilling atmosphere in the constant rain and the dark, in the middle of the ocean somewhere. There are no real slow spots and many viewers will probably want to check this out again someday soon. You can do much worse than kick back with this pic on a dark night. "},{"Title":"Full Scream Ahead..? Better than your average slick..!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I bought this DVD last week. I've watched it for the first time with some friends. I must admit, that must be some movie.. Here, director Stephen Sommers try to prove that if Aliens scared you.. Then this one will do worse.. Well, it did at times.. The whole plot sounds simple to me.. with these bunch of thieves coming on board this cruise liner, the Argonautica.. Only to find that the passengers have vanished. It's not 'til they realise that they up against something more deadly and it came from the bottom of the ocean.. We're not talking giant squids here.. Something more sinister..Treat Williams played well as Finnegan. Famke Janssen, Wes Studi and the rest of the cast kept their end of the bargain with their performance. A really good film, full of one liners.. A few jokes.. This, that and the other..7 out of 10! "}{"Title":"Now What?","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Such a comfortable old friend this movie - love it! Entertainment with a capital E! Stephen Sommers was hired to direct a B grade monster movie with limited funds, limited actors and limited fx and to keep it entertaining! Well, I'm here to tell you he most certainly succeeded. In the grand scale of things this flick was never going to matter, make much money or pull too many votes at the Academy Awards but I tell you what, its as honest as the day is long! Unpretentious, undemanding but heaps of fun as Treat Williams squares off against a pathetically organised gang of boat-nappers, hired by the owner to sink his own cruise ship purely for the Insurance payout!Gorgeous Famke Janssen with whom I have wanted to have children since GOLDENEYE, plays the femme fatale in slinky red...Sorry, I'm going to have to pause here mid-review for a few minutes while I have a cold shower! She, Finnegan and his best friend Joey (O'Connor) must neutralise not only the terrorists but the somewhat awesome sea creature that has disposed of most everybody in gruesome fashion on board the ARGONAUTICA.What makes this film so watchable, quite apart from Ms Janssen's cleavage, is the repartee, terrific characterisations and remarkably good CGI effects on show. This is not a film to critically analyse simply to enjoy...and if you can't do that, you have serious issues to deal with!A total B grader that makes no attempt to disguise its pedigree. I consider it to be a winner on all levels. Great ending too! Devotees of course will fully understand the meaning of my two-word summary! "},{"Title":"A cheesy cruise","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Deep Rising is Anaconda, Alien, and Die Hard all rolled into one. It´s a cheesy, B-grade horror flick, but it manages to entertain. The plot follows a team of cannon fodder, er, excuse me, mercenaries that are on their way to a Titanic-like cruise ship called the Argonautica in order to steal and blow it up. Led by Han Solo, er, excuse me, Capt. John Finnegan (Treat Williams), this international and expendable motley crew run afoul of the ship´s captain and creator, and a VERY SEXY pickpocket (Famke Janssen). But they weren´t counting on a very ugly monster with snake tentacles that sucks humans dry. Everyone on the ship is happily wasted. (Thankfully, we´re spared this massacre, except for a girl getting sucked down a toilet). The group arrives and a fight to the death begins... yay. We know everyone will die. But the survivors do, too, at the end (you don´t see it). This movie is extremely gory and very cheesy... but it was fun. And a movie is supposed to entertain above everything else, right? "},{"Title":"Let me make myself clear - I HATED THIS FILM.","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" This movie redefines underwhelming, I hated this film. Before I watched it I thought that it had all the hallmarks of a good B monster movie, within minutes I realized that there was no chance I was discovering a new Tremors, Slither or The Blob, I was just watching a shi**y movie. Deep Rising is like a meat pie, it takes bits of hundreds of things and tries to make them appear more appetizing. You know you probably shouldn't eat it but sometimes you do anyway, as it's quick and easy. Replace eat with watch, and take out probably. This isn't so bad it's good, it's so bad it's f*****g awful.The first alarm bells rang for me before I watched a single scene, the film is preceded by an on screen blurb informing the viewer that parts of the ocean are pretty deep and have never been explored, or something similar.It's never a good sign when this occurs in a horror or action movie, especially one as cheerfully stupid as this one. If you aren't smart enough to tell your audience key information through dialogue or action you might need to reconsider your ability.I'll recap what I witnessed in the first three minutes Bad Music Bad Acting Bad Dialogue Bad JokesFirst the music is terrible and inappropriate, almost to the point where I wondered if the man responsible had even seen the movie or knew what it was about. The acting is just awful, like they are rehearsing and the director said that'll do, but in a half-hearted defense of the actors I must say that when you have to make ludicrously cheesy dialogue and try to sell crap jokes I might coast too.At one point a character is identified as an Australian, (I am also Australian), but in the next scene I could no longer work out which one was Australian as none of the team used even a vaguely recognizable Aussie accent.In the first scene involving the mercenaries, full of just pointlessly fake macho dialogue, I was able for the first time to differentiate between B movie actors and B grade actors. B movie actors can often be good at their jobs, B grade actors are just bad. This is straight B grade all the way.Famke Janssen does her career no favours by playing a pickpocket who is aboard the cruise ship to rob the wealthy passengers, in yet another sign that this isn't a Best Picture nominee she is able to get into a high tech computer controlled vault using bubblegum! While I am on a roll pointing out stupidity why use Famke in the role of a pickpocket, hot chicks don't bother robbing rich guys - they marry them. Eventually something hits the ship and passengers panic and scatter, taking cover where they can. Fast forward a sec, the mercenaries are now aboard what appears to be a deserted ship, with what CSI would call evidence of a struggle. Famke is able to once again MacGyver herself out of the storeroom by cutting all the wires on the security system at once, just like the pros do it!Then we finally see the something - is under-underwhelming a word?In one supposedly tense scene our heroes are running away from the massive squidy grooblers, but decide that they have time for a calm composed chat in an open hallway; I'd laugh but I was too busy crying.The comic relief is provided by the ship's engineer, who whines his way through the movie sounding like the Squeaky Voiced Teen from The Simpsons and spits out lame joke after lame joke, in the latter stages he is shot in the leg and just spends the remainder of his scenes limping mildly. Now I have sprained my ankle many times, and I am aware that being shot in the leg would be far more serious, yet when I sprain my ankle I am unable to even limp without pain, let alone jog around. The ending comes far too late for my liking and predictably enough is worse than your average sit-com, where someone cracks a bad joke and they freeze frame on fake laughter.I have read recently that changing a director can have a radical impact on the finished film but I don't usually think too much about such things, here though is a case where I am positive that 75 other directors could come up with a far superior picture using the same basic material. A quick check on IMDb shows me the same guy made Van Helsing, another laughable effort, notable only for Kate Beckinsale wearing tight pants.The director blatantly ripped ideas and scenes from Die Hard 2, Alien, Predator, Alien Resurrection, Tremors and Anaconda and even the worst of these (that would be Alien 4) is several times better than Deep Rising. It's rubbish.I hope I have made myself clear. I hated this film. Final Rating &#x96; 2.5 / 10. In retrospect I can't even see where the 2.5 points are earned, I just need room in case something worse comes up. I think I'll be waiting a while.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Familiar horror movie with an edge of humour.","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is yet another variant on the Alien (1979) idea. A big deadly monster traps a small group of people in a remote location and picks them off one by one. It's been covered with varying degrees of success in films like Leviathan, Deepstar Six, Proteus, The Thing and even Starship Troopers. Deep Rising is not the worst film of its type, but it is a long way behind the best.Treat Williams heads the cast of half-famous actors. He plays a boat captain who lets his vessel be hired out to anyone willing to pay. As he says, If the money's there, we don't care! His latest customers are a bunch of modern day pirates who have plans to seize control of a luxury cruise liner in the South China Sea. However, when they board the ship they find they have been beaten to it by something else a gigantic sea monster which has wiped out all but a few of the passengers. Before they know, they too are fighting for survival against a fierce foe.The monster is well designed and looks 80% realistic. Some of the killings are quite brutal and well staged, though not really suspenseful. Ironically, the funniest death scene is not monster .vs. man, but the scene in which Anthony Heald accidentally cleaves the skull of one of the pirates with a machete, thinking that he is the beast! Jerry Goldmith provides typically stirring music.Beyond that, the film fails on most other levels. Director Sommers has no notion of the idea that less can be more, and he fills the screen with jokey dialogue and spectacular mayhem from moment one. It makes the film seem fast moving, but completely nullifies suspense. How can you get excited when the hero treats the extraordinary danger he is in like it's a joke? Kevin J. O'Connor seems to have taken it upon himself to play the most irritating character in film history, and he comes quite close to achieving his goal. The ending sucks, too, with a ridiculous tacked-on twist that provides the hero with the fortieth chance to utter his favourite catch-phrase, and also sets up a potential sequel.Deep Rising is fast, trashy, suspense free big-budget chaos. You may love it if your idea of a good film is a film which you can watch with your brain 10%-switched on. If you're after something more profound, you aint gonna find it here. "},{"Title":"Oh dear...","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I saw this recently on VHS, and even that was a waste of money.  This was undoubtedly one of the worst films I have in a very long time.  I was not aware it was supposed to be a B grade film - perhaps if I was aware it was supposed to be crap, I may not have had such an overwhelming physical reaction to it.The acting was poor, the monster was... well, unconvincing much of the time, the script had few moments that weren't pathetically lame.  It was just bad.There were only two redeeming features that I could see 1. Famke Janssen looked damn good 2. The monster ate many of the whining characters I quickly tired of, much to my enjoyment.Aside from that, it was mediocre rubbish I would not watch again, unless it was for the repeated pleasure of watching all the lame actors in it getting mercilessly slaughtered. "},{"Title":"High retardation for the MTV generation.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" That this is the n-th rip-off of Alien didn't bother me. What DID bother me, however, was the laughable attempt to make every main (good) character into a one-man or one-woman comedy stand-up act, making them crack jokes and vomit one-liners ALL the time, regardless of the seriousness, morbidity, or utter dangerousness of the situations they found themselves in. It got to the point where everyone would be cracking jokes only seconds after someone just had all their blood sucked out or a leg flew from somewhere. The fact that the jokes are incredibly lame is hardly a surprise. There is practically no tension here because at no time can this film be taken seriously - whatsoever.What's with these terrorists? Do we really need them? They just HAPPEN to hijack an ocean-liner at the very day when its travelers were on the monster's menu. The terrorists look like a gathering of Calvin Klein's latest male models displaying the latest collection of Summer terrorist wear. The fine tradition started by Independence Day, of incredibly dumb sci-fi spectacles, is continued here with gusto. The 90s will undoubtedly go down in film history as the decade with the most mindless films ever made. (Well, let's also not forget some of the 50s musicals.) "},{"Title":"Awful to the extreme","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Some say that when you have seen one monster flick, you have seen them all. Well, in case of Deep Rising, that saying is verified. There's simply nothing new in this movie - every scene has been seen before and made better in other movies. Want a scene where people have to dive for 20 metres to escape a monster? Deep Rising's got that one! Want a scene where one of the cannon fodder guys shoots at a monster and says that Eat that, monster! only to get eaten by something lurking behind them? Deep Rising's got that as well! Same with the surprise twist at the end thingy. Yay! The only remotely positive thing in this flick is Famke, but in such a crappy piece, even she cannot save it. "},{"Title":"This ain't no pleasure cruise!   NO KIDDING!!!","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I don't think there are many movies with a tag line that tells the truth more than this one. I hope for the makers that it's not what they really wanted to say with it, but indeed, watching this movie isn't a pleasure cruise!!! At least not for the people like me, who like to see at least SOME quality. However the real fans of B-rated action / horror movies will love this one.This movie is one of the many when it comes to cheap monster movies. OK, they really did their best to make the sea monster look scary and I admit that it looks quite nice, but as I already mentioned in other reviews A movie needs more than just special effects! Where is the good story? Why do the actors behave like amateurs? Why all the gadgets? So many questions, so little answers...Personally I didn't like the movie all that much. It was extremely predictable, boring, uninspired, cheap, ... and certainly not worth a second watch. I give it a 3/10 for the special effects. "},{"Title":"Inexplicably Panned Entertaining","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Spoilers AheadThis movie is so loathed that it comes with another movie on Blu Ray The Puppet Masters. The cast is excellent, Treat Williams, Famke Jansson, Wes Studi, and Hounsou when he was just starting out after Gladiator. This crew hired Treat to take them to this cruise liner in the middle of the South China Sea. Treat is told nothing by Studi who leads the creepy, violent gang. The cruise ship comes to a stop, thanks to an inside man who disables the engines via the computer. Some underwater creature comes in, kills everybody, except for a few stragglers, when Treat arrives it is a ghost ship with blood stains everywhere. They hear creepy, scraping noises coming from the pipes. The movie is a mystery, as Treat, under the control of Studi and his gang, investigate the ship. It is quite scary, the thing starts picking them off one at a time. Like Alien, you only see glimpses of the huge thing until almost the very end. It has some gross scenes in it; the creature sucks all the fluid out of your body that barfs you out. They discover this the hard way. The movie follows them as they descend deeper into the ship to discover the mystery. The cast is very good. Treat was always a good actor, he is the only good part of The Devil's Own. Famke was still very young and beautiful here like she was three years earlier in GoldenEye. The movie has plenty of pop out scares; the group keeps getting smaller and smaller as they go to the engine room. The creature effects are very well done and scary. I think most people hated this for the back end of Studi's crew which are terrible actors. They get killed off quickly. The front three Treat Willaims, Wes Studi, and Famke Jansson all do well in their roles. For me, I always found it thrilling and entertaining. It has a lot of humor in it but it never becomes campy like Flash Gordon. It is almost impossible to buy on Blu Ray by itself. It is worth putting up with the other movie you have to buy to get it. The ending angered a lot of people. It is a very untraditional movie; I still think it is a well made, scary movie. "},{"Title":"Makes The Brain Ache","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Yet Another Example of Hollywood Excremental Excess. There is Plenty of Money up there on the Screen with so Little to Admire it makes the Brain Ache. Completely Lacking in anything that approaches Wit, this Movie's Fun-One-Liners are so Clunky that they Literally Stop the Action in its Slimy Tracks.The Clichés are Innumerable and it has some Very Irritating Characters that are Rightfully given a Horrible Death, except One, and that one is the Most Irritating. Go Figure. There is some Nasty Gore for Hounds, but the Monster Itself is so Uninteresting and Bland just like the Aforementioned Players, that it all becomes a Ho-Hum, Hideous Hoot.Some may be Tolerant and Accept all the Sound and Fury. Others may be Less Forgiving, because the Movie is so Derivative that it is like a Dumb Deja Vu. There is Absolutely Nothing Fresh in this Unforgivable Salty Tale. "}{"Title":"If the cash is there, we do not care","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Since I've read several reviews stating this is a 'fun' movie, I thought I would maybe have some great time watching this flick. Unfortunately, I was wrong. First I have to mention that the Chinese/Korean girl acts really really bad, even for an amateur production-- which is not the case. I was mistakenly led to believe it was an horror/suspense movie, and throughout the film, I realized it is more an action picture than anything else-- in fact, I hate this kind of movie. More than that, I have to complaint that people are holding/charging guns ALL the time and shooting for ANY reason. I never saw people so heartless. Every new scene reminds the spectator of Tremors and Anaconda, which means or tends to indict it is not a very original film. Sci-fi effects are poor most of the time; for an instant I thought it was OK for 1998, but then I remember how believable Alien was with the technology of 1979, so I presume Deep Rising's special effects are really bad and it's not a wrong impression of mine. It's curious to notice that they chose an old and famous Brazilian song to play, called Garota de Ipanema-- which may be the only thing I have to congratulate these filmmakers. Don't ever give this film a chance! "},{"Title":"2 hours of my life I will never be able to get back ever again.","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I just saw this movie the other night on TV. It was one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my life. The acting was horrible. The effects were horrible. And the script....oh the script. And whoever the crap came up with this movie in the first place, someone please shoot them and make sure they never write another screen play! I mean seriously, this movie is awful. It was one of those things that it was so awful, you had to see how these stupid people were going to get themselves out of the mess they were in. The horribleness of it was just mesmerizing. Was it unrealistic, you might ask? Oh my yes. Most especially the jet ski escape at the end of the movie. I couldn't believe Famke Janssen and Treat Williams were in this movie. I guess they've learned a little since then. "},{"Title":"Can You Just Get Asthma, Or Do You Have To Be Born With It?","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Sure, the effects are lame and the plot is cheesy, but what were you expecting? It's still a great group movie! How in the world could someone hate a film like this? Granted, if you have high expectations for another Psycho type horror/thriller, you're out of luck and wishing for too much. Still, if you're looking to laugh all night (whether by the script's intentions or not), you've got a great movie. By far, Joey (Kevin J. O'Connor) either makes or breaks the movie for you. For me, already being a KJOC fan, his humor was great to fall back on, but I know of others who found him exceedingly annoying. Also Trilian (Famke Janassen) was immensely funny in her own subtle little comments and actions. Overall, I'd recommend it to anyone with low expectations and a great sense of humor. Or anyone who (like myself) can appreciate a good B movie. "},{"Title":"Prepare yourselves...","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I haven't written a movie review in a long time, and quite surprisingly, the movie that inspired me to get back to writing was Deep Rising. Go figure. Not a total waste of time, then.It's quite difficult to think that Stephen Sommers followed Deep Rising with the two Mummy features which I consider to be pure popcorn entertainment at its best. Somehow everything just clicked in those two movies, the cast was perfect, there was plenty of humour and the effects were first-rate. Deep Rising (Deep Sinking would be a more appropriate title) is a total opposite. I could live with the story as I enjoy a mindless piece of trash as much as the next guy, but the execution sucks big time, just like the creature in the film. The screenplay is full of horrible macho dialogue and supposedly funny one-liners which only turn out to be extremely annoying. The cast does what it can, I mean, how could someone actually give an award-worthy (Razzies excluded, of course) performance in such a film? Famke Janssen looks nice, but that's all. And the effects... for a movie with such a huge budget, the effects seem really cheap. Where did all the money go? It wasn't spent on the screenplay or the cast. The creature itself is quite hilarious and I found myself laughing at points which were most likely planned to be the scary bits. And the ship, it sure did explode nicely at the end... I guess I could go on forever, but the main point is that Deep Rising is a horrible movie and that it looks like one of those stupid made-in-three-weeks TV movies. It might work as a guilty pleasure, but the chances are you'll hate it as well. Thank God for its box-office failure, otherwise we might have had the possibility to witness a sequel for which the door is left open at the end.This ain't no pleasure cruise. At least they got the tag line right. "},{"Title":"Famke, Famke, Famke","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I was really expecting a bomb when I checked this movie out from the library, but, WOW! it was pretty darned good.  Very, very derivative of Aliens, but who cares?  The monsters were creepy, the action clipped along, the script was intelligent, and the actors did their job (especially Famke.)  I give this excellent film a rating of...drum roll please...3 out of 4!  (Famke gets a 4 out of 4.) "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Yuck. The perfect word to try and describe my response to you after seeing this movie. Not only was the gore just way over the top, cheesy, (but nonetheless stomach-churning) but the acting and the movie in general was downright terrible. The characters were shallow, one-note drones who blindly stumbled through the scenes, occasionally getting picked off by a slimy, eel-like beast to be digested alive.  I found myself cheering on the anonymous sea-monster, 'cause I could hardly bear the rantings of the characters any longer. Call me stupid for not seeing a b-movie coming from the beginning, but I was expecting something along the lines of your general, run-of-the-mill sci-fi thriller. I was sick to my stomach after watching this film, probably because I was expecting a little more taste and a little less of such needless B-movie junk such as half-digested, still-alive humans falling from the guts of mutant squid tentacles. Yummy. ((sure, that was a spoiler, but for those of you who just wanna watch this movie for it's shock-value, there's a lot more where that came from)) "},{"Title":"Deeply Risible","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Never has a movie tag-line been more appropriate. This ain't no pleasure cruise sums Deep Rising up pretty well. Despite a dependable cast of character actors, Deep Rising never manages to drag itself out of the water. It's either a wet version of Aliens or a horror version of The Poseidon Adventure. Borrowing heavily from not just one but two well-known films is a terrible idea. Writer/director Stephen Sommers deserves to be set adrift in a leaky life-raft for throwing up this daft action adventure. The Hollywood Suits also deserve lead buoyancy aids for giving him the money to make this lame nonsense. When Harrison Ford sensibly turned down the lead role, the studio should have torpedoed this listing junk and sent it to the bottom of the deep blue sea.Avoid this sucking patch of quicksand and watch The Abyss again instead. You won't be half as bored and disappointed. "},{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" This was a nice movie to see. Truly enjoying. OK not much of a plot and I surprised my girlfriend (we were watching it together) by predicting some of the things that were going to happen and even some of the things people were going to say, but you could do that for james bond movies as well.If the aim of a movie is to entertain than tjis movie certainly fulfills that.In some of the other comments I have seen people write that the movie was extremely gory and disturbing but I fail to understand why.WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD OK the place is littered with digested corpses and when one of the team's members is spitten out by th emonster he is half digested, but come on, what is so gory about it, it is Special effects.Even when the leader of the mercenaries is half in the mouth of th emonster (who this time seems to take a long time to finish his work), there is no goreEND WARNINGWhat I do regret in the movie is the early demise of 'Leila' (Una Damon). It is hard to understand that this witty strong character is the story's girlfriend of the movie's annoying side kick. I guess there is hope for all nerds and nitwits. I would have liked to see her in th emovie a bit longer. I would have preferred her over Famke Janssen.Really a nice movie for a late Friday night "},{"Title":"This put the wowsers in my trousers","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  What now..!!!!! I have just watched this film after a period of disapointment in the current state of mainstream movies such as Hannibal, Star Wars ep 1 etc. and can say that it is a bit of a cracker and no mistake.  It rocks along at a hell of a pace- the film seems to last only about an hour and is never less than total entertainment. Yeah sure its cliche but sometimes thats exactly what the doctor ordered. As for the lead played by Treat Williams, glib does not begin to describe his nature and in my opinion is the new no.1 action hero. I can only hope for some kind of sequel, as i would rather see more of this than any amount of mummy movies. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought you'd seen the worst...","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Just when you thought you'd seen the worst... in comes Stephen Sommers with what might be his/the worst film ever/yet; I don't know for sure, since I didn't(and won't) see the Mummy films. This one has everything that you any sensible person would try to avoid in a film; cardboard characters, more clichés than I thought would be possible to actually cram into a mere two hours, horrible(and I DO mean HORRIBLE) one-liners, zero acting talent, lousy, obvious special effects, etc. The list goes on, and so could I, but for the sake of anyone reading this, I'll try to keep my rant reasonably short. The plot is ludicrous; Sommers should be severely punished for putting such garbage on the screen, and prohibited from ever working with film again. The twists and overall story were painfully predictable; I know of children stories that are more unpredictable and involving. The characters are, as I stated, cardboard cut-outs. They are all one-dimensional, and they constantly change what little personality they have, doing 180-turns every few minutes. Not a single character was the least bit likable; I know this might be to keep us from being sad when the bad guys die, but I didn't care the least bit for any of the people who did survive, either. I was actually rooting for the creatures most of the time when someone died, at least they had an excuse for having zero personality. The acting is almost as non-existent as the character development; actually, equally as non-existent... neither actually existed within the movie. The special effects are ridiculously bad; I have only seen a few movies with worse CGI, and they were all made half a decade before this. What annoyed me most about the pure crap that this film indeed was, would have to be the dialog; every single character constantly utters insults, one-liners, etc. I didn't actually think it was possible, but I'm pretty sure that every single line in this 'film' was a cliché. Characters are constantly either bragging, spouting perverted babble, or talking trash to each other. Half of the time, this means that the person who's doing one of the three aforementioned examples of just how worthless these characters are is about to die, but the other half it's just there, probably to take up runtime, in order to make the film long enough. Another example of this is the two scenes near the end, which are supposed to be sentimental, but are instead just totally out of place scenes that take up more wasteful time. You don't care about any of these characters, and they don't seem to care about each other, either, so why in the world should we care when we see them sad, and why should they be sad for losing someone they quite obviously don't care about at all? This movie is truly horrible, but had it at the very least been laughably horrible, I could have gotten a good laugh at it; but it wasn't it was just painfully horrible, and almost impossible to sit through. Had I been tired when I watched it, I would have fallen asleep. Zero laughs, thrills, or interesting moments. All in all, yet another example of how Stephen Sommers can't make a decent movie if his life depended on it. I recommend this to pretty much no one, except for possibly the mindless drones(that for some reasons are almost always teenagers) who don't care if there is actually a point to the so-called 'film' they're watching. 1/10  "}{"Title":"Underrated best monster horror scary action movie flick ever made!","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take a monster creature action horror flick on a ship, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Deep Rising (1998) for me is one of the best underrated monster horror movie from the 90's!! I love this movie to death every time I see it, it takes my breath away and I wish there would be a sequel and explained what happened to characters. It is definitely one of the most underrated action horror flicks. It is one of my favorite best film from the Director Stephen Sommers before he made The Mummy. This film and The Mummy and The Mummy Returns are the only movies from Stephen Sommers that I love, the rest of his movies I don't watch! quality keeps you on the edge of your chair good scene for a film. It doesn't pretend to be anything other than what it is -- your standard creature action film. This is a really fun no brainer of a movie. It doesn't have a great story line, but the action and creature are great! So if you just want to watch a fun gory movie where there are good guys, bad guys, the pretty woman thrown in and a monster. This is perfect! This is the movie for people that just wanna watch a movie. Deep Rising is what you classify as great monster movie, with a story that's all too clear and characters that'll make you wonder what'd happen if they were in Aliens. The jokes don't stop, the action doesn't stop, and the editors did a great job on the cutting room floor. No fat, all meat... Or drink as it goes in this one. This film is genius. Great cast, Great story, Great SFX, Big budget. Laughs, Thrills&#x85;.This movie has it all, yet no one has heard of it! If you like a fun, corny adventure movie&#x85;.look no further! Treat Williams, Famke Janssen and Wes Studi are just great chemistry. I've probably watched this movie 10+ times over the years&#x85;.like your best pair of slippers! Buckle up for edge-of-your seat excitement with the explosive hit Deep Rising, an unstoppable high seas action thriller that moves at full scream ahead! When a band of ruthless hijackers invade the world's most luxurious cruise ship, they're shocked to discover the passengers have mysteriously vanished! But that doesn't mean they are alone! Something terrifying is lurking just out of sight a deadly force from the unexplored depths of the ocean that begins to snatch the horrified intruders one by one! Treat Willliams (The Devil's Own) and sexy Famke Janssen (Goldeneye, Rounders) lead a group of survivors who must overcome incredible odds in their breathtaking battle to escape the doomed ship alive! That is the basic plot about a cruise ship who gets hijacked by a sea monster who eats and drinks people and spits out the bones. A team of mercenaries are the only survivors on this ship and they have to fight for their own survival.It's Die Hard meets Alien meets Titanic!!!! I love this film to death it has my favorite actress in it Famke Janssen from GoldenEye (1995) my favorite James Bond 007 movie! Why would anyone thought that this movie suck? I don't get it! I didn't saw this movie about 10.years ago until just 2.days back and honestly this movie took my breath away. I never saw any monster movie eating people like that ever. Deep Rising was Stephen Sommers movie which he directed. And I thought the movie was one of the best action paced horror movie. I was surprised to see Famke Janssen in this movie she stared in James Bond 007 GoldenEye one of my best Bond movies as the main villain opposite of Sean Bean. First I thought the awesome women in this flick was Izabella Scorupco because she looked a like Izabella Scorupco from GoldenEye. But I was surprised to see Famke Janssen in this awesome flick from Stephen Sommers.This is the second time Trevor Goddard played an Australian, the last time I saw him played an Australian was in Baywatch Season 3 In Episode Fatal Exchange in 1993. I seriously miss this actor and it is a terrible and sad, that this awesome actor is no longer with us anymore. May he rest in peace (1962 - 2003). This movie failed in the Box office but it was still a fun ride. I think this is Treat Williams's favorite film he ever made! I love it to death! For me this movie is a 10 not a 6 or 7 a perfect 10. This movie does not deserve to be bashed or hated I always love it. great film! as far as the action-scify-horror genre this one's up there with the best, and there's only 5 or 6 proper ones out there, so that says a lot!. the more I watch it the more I like it. Shame they stopped doing films like these (with a proper budget I mean). I'm disappointed it never had a sequel though.Deep Rising is a 1998 American action horror film directed by Stephen Sommers and starring Treat Williams, Famke Janssen and Anthony Heald. It was distributed by Hollywood Pictures and Cinergi Pictures and released on January 30, 1998.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Calimari Productions, Cinergi Pictures Entertainment, Hollywood Pictures Starring Treat Williams. Famke Janssen, Kevin J. O'Connor, Anthony Heald, Wes Studi, Derrick O'Connor, Cliff Curtis, Una Damon, Djimon Hounsou, Jason Flemyng, Clifton Powell, Trevor Goddard Director Stephen Sommers Producers John Baldecchi, Mario Iscovich, Laurence Mark Screenplay Stephen Sommers, Robert mark Kamen Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 46 Mins. Budget $45.000.000 Box Office $11,203,026 "},{"Title":"Deep in the Toilet.","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Deep Rising (1998) Dir Stephen Sommers / Cast Famke Janssen, Treat Williams, Anthony Heald, Djimon Hounsou, Kevin J. O'Connor The title sounds like a description of a plugged toilet. Plot regards a hijacking of a ship only to discover blood and bones. Then a creature makes lunch out of people who have no personalities. It is unconceivable that this creature can lock doors. If that is the case then perhaps they should have trained it to write a better screenplay. Director Stephen Sommers handles the action well enough but he seems at odds at finding a screenwriter who can do something beyond third grade level intelligence. He previously made Rudyard Kipling's Jungle Book and The Adventures of Huck Finn among others. The special effects are about the only area of compliment and seems to be the only area of ambition. Famke Janssen is the heroine and the role does her no justice. Treat Williams makes close calls but unfortunately none of them involve calling his agent to verify that this is a joke. Anthony Heald and Djimon Hounsou also appear and are hopefully not proud to have this on their resume. Not much point other than to present the umpteenth Alien ripoff. Characters are unsympathetic especially when hiding in washrooms and getting sucked down the toilet. The film should be flushed down too but for all its worth it would probably plug it. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"OK monster movie","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Something of an old-fashioned monster-at-sea movie, infused with a healthy dose of comic relief and modern FX, although if truth be told the CGI leaves a lot to be desired. There is simply nothing scary about a cartoon monster, no matter how many teeth and tentacles it has. Some may find it faintly reminiscent of DEEP BLUE SEA, with lots of running around water-logged ship's corridors. The ending, which I dare not reveal here, is a hoot. The flick does not take itself particularly seriously, which helps considering the threadbare plot and over-the-top acting of the leads. "},{"Title":"Can you buy me a cold beer?","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Let's get one thing straight... the effects in Deep Rising are wonderful. The worm monsters are fantastic. the gore is excellent. The creatures in the film are genuinely menacing, and really well realised. So, what lets this film down? Well, quite simply, it's the script. I have a sneaking suspicion it was written by a five year old who had just seen Alien... it's a menagerie of annoying characters, stolen ideas, and an abundance of pathetic overworked cliches. You've seen all the characters before in a hundred different movies of this type... there's the standard Macho Hero, the token Strong Independant Woman, the annoying Comedy Nerd Character, Glamorous Thief,Evil Rich Guy,the nasty Evil Terrorist Guy, the lecherous Ladies Man, and finally there are our old friends Australian Guy and British Guy, who do nothing except shout things in their distinctive accents.The hero, Finnegan, is surely the most irritating and laughable macho character ever ---Sample dialog ATTRACTIVE WOMAN if you get me off this ship I'll give you anything you want! FINNEGAN can you buy me a cold beer?--- Deep Rising is, if anything, a crash course in how NOT to do a sci-fi horror movie. After watching it, marvel at the idea that the producers actually thought that it would be successful.  "},{"Title":"Oh boy, this is a cornfest!","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I remember seeing the promos for this movie saying this was the scariest thing since Tremors, so naturally I had to give it a watch......and boy was it a letdown!So what's the banana? Out on its maiden voyage, the Cruise Ship Argonautica and its passengers celebrate with an evening party, only for the vessel to be abruptly plunged into darkness. Meanwhile, a Captain named Finnegan, who's piloting a boat with a compliment of Mercenaries, is taken captive by them, revealing themselves to be in actuality Pirates who intend to rob the Argonautica of all its riches and sink it. Upon reaching the blacked out liner, they discover all but a handful of people have been killed by an unforeseen tentacled creature, that's infested the ship's ventilation system and can strike without warning. What follows is a desperate fight to survive about the stricken vessel, whilst also partaking in a clumsy collection of stupid plots and conflicting story lines that make you more and more confused.Okay, what's so bad about this film? The acting for starters, which is very cheesy and over the top. I would like to think that this is similar to Tremors in that it's a satire of what people would act like in such a horrific situation, but this is meant to be taken seriously, and with these performances... no.Next, the CGI, which is so laughably poor and fake looking you'd think it was just hashed together in 20 minutes on Flash Studio. It's pixelated, the creatures never look convincing, and it really is very dated.Next up, the story, which, as mentioned, is very confusing. If it was simply just a basic plot about a rescue ship sent out to find a stricken cruise liner, only to come across a vessel filled with horrible monsters, that would make for a gripping adventure/horror story. Instead, we have pirates, crossed with an insurance scandal, crossed with another thief who's already on the ship, crossed with implausible attempts to resolve the problem, and with the movie ending on probably the lowest point you could. I won't give it away but it really is undeniably stupid.So, to sum up, this movie is very, very bad, in more ways than one. The CGI is bad, the story is bad, the acting is bad, aside from a few jump-scares it's not that frightening, and when you do finally get to see the monster, you never thought you'd be laughing at the end of this movie! I certainly was, it was really bad! "},{"Title":"GRADE 'A' B-type movie making","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I have watched DEEP RISING at least 5 times, and have enjoyed it each time, and seriously, am now searching my collection again for another rewatch. Made in the same vein as TREMORS and TREMORS II (a vastly underrated film), it contains very good acting (especially by Kevin O'Conner, who was the best part of the incredibly overrated THE MUMMY) a good amount of humor and action, some actually thought provoking scenes, a good role for Treat Williams, a vastly underrated actor ( seePRINCE OF THE CITY) and a reasonably good monster (not the best, but for a 'B' movie, relatively well done). I am looking forward to another rewatching. If you are looking for ALIENS or ALIEN RESURRECTION, you'll be disappointed, but I do believe, at this point, it is a more enjoyable viewing than ALIEN. But of course, it is all a matter of taste and perception and expectations, and you have just heard mine. Happy viewing.....Gabe    "},{"Title":"Small group of people, limited environment,  evil unknown creature...","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Haven't we all seen this one before?  Here's the formula take a small group of people who are somewhat equipped for the forthcoming task, put them in an environment where running or contacting others for help is not an option, and then introduce an extremely violent and dangerous something that is generally unidentified in all aspects except as the enemy.  I think this was called Alien if I'm not mistaken, or Event Horizon, or even Jurassic Park if you will.  I know that there's been gazillions of movies like this, but the other ones were just so much better (say, Jurassic Park for its effects). All they did with this was think of something that won't happen and decide to pretend that it could. On the positive side (if you're really looking for one, for it is a stretch), I thought that Femke did an entertaining job in the movie, and the conflict between the groups of people in the small boat in the beginning was interesting.  However, these two things could not save this doomed flick. A fellow movie goer stood up at the end of film and ostentatiously (yet accurately) asked the crowd, was this not the worst movie you've ever seen?  Too bad the crowd consisted of about our group of people and maybe 8 others... "},{"Title":"Holy cannolis!what a movie!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is a big budget b-horror movie. It is marvelous. The monster is good, the femme fatale is great, the hero, our man, treat williams(A GOD AMONG MEN!) is stupendous, and don't forget half-eaten billy and the rest of the stereotypical character filled cast. How you can make such a good b-movie on a large budget is beyond me, but it works here. treat delivers classic line upon classic line while running about the ship with his ragamuffin gang. This movie is the posiedon adventure meets crap, and the outcome is a masterpiece. buy,rent,steal this movie,just get your hands on it! also look up treat williams! the man is a special actor who delivers pivotal movie lines like no one else.the deep will continue to rise. "},{"Title":"A Lot of Fun...","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this film.  OK - so just about everything that happened had a strong edge of familiarity - it all mixed together and felt fresh and fun. Treat Williams was just fine, and Famke Janssen was a treat to watch, too. "},{"Title":"More fun than Titanic","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This was the first movie I saw in 98. And it is currently my all time favorite. It was much more fun than I expected it to be.The cast is wonderful...Trevor Goddard and Famke Janssen are awesome. There is plenty of humor and plenty of dead bodies and plenty of action. It's a fun movie that features a good story and good effects. Well worth the price of a ticket or rental. "}{"Title":"Wow!  Cool!","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I had read some reviews of this movie, and to be honest I didn't expect it to be very good at all.  I was pleasantly surprised by the film.  It's mix of comedy, suspense and horror go nicely together, and the fact they're always standing hip-height in water so the monster could just swim and drag them away, makes it quite scary.  I covered my ears a few times, because I didn't want a loud to noise to make me jump out of my skin, like this film does.  It really is a treat.  It also stars a Treat.  Ha Ha Ha!  You know....Treat Williams...Treat...Oh...Ah, forget it! "},{"Title":"Entertaining monster action fun and never a dull moment!","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" The Writer/Director of The Mummy trilogy, Steven Sommers combines plenty of nonstop action, ridiculous climatic pyrotechnics and witty dialog in this overblown but thoroughly entertaining creature feature starring Treat Williams as a freelance ship captain who transports unsavory types to whatever destination pays the most, and this time gets in too deep as rebel mercenaries involved in a plot with a millionaire cruise ship entrepreneur (Anthony Heald) to collect on an insurance scam by sinking a luxurious ocean liner with state-of-the-art torpedo technology. Little do they know that they are located within the uncharted Himalayan oceans of the Pacific where humongous sea monsters feed on anything that ventures into their territory. Famke Janssen is absolutely gorgeous and charming as a professional thief and stowaway who is along for the ride as the cruise ship is infested by a giant hungry monstrosity with tentacles armed with sharp teeth and an appetite for human blood.This is Sommer's take on the classic Lovecraftian monsters of the deep mythology all accomplished for the sake of thrills and laughs. The cast is energetic, amusing and flawed all at once, and the pitfalls and perils never seem to let up giving this silly, nonsensical action film a sense of its own. Veteran creature designer Rob Bottin (The Thing) is responsible for the creature FX which are fair to bad computer graphics imagery, but the overall hilarity and personality within the script and performances justify any shortcomings. Its a nonstop riot of action and thrills for anyone who doesn't take this stuff seriously. You gotta just accept it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Oh yes","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I should probably clarify my above rating. If I were to judge this film on it's true merits, it's critical quality, it'd get... maybe 4 stars out of 10. But if I were to rate it for how much I enjoy watching it? 10 is starting to get close...Everyone involved with this film is clearly having a great time with what they have. And that is where it really succeeds - it KNOWS what it is. It's not going for Oscars, or even any awards at all, it's just trying to make you laugh. It makes no attempt at rising above it's station; I often find that is where 'bad' movies fall down, when they try to be too serious or deliver a message. This is just a party from beginning to end.Moreover, the acting, dialogue and effects (if sometimes dated) are markedly better than you can usually expect to find in this kind of film. Just about every actor/actress here has scored a major Hollywood role at some point, so you'll recognise the faces. The fact that their characters are so stock is just part of the fun. In Deep Rising, 'an English accent' counts as characterisation, and it's a hoot. Stuff spectacularly explodes, monsters ooze slime everywhere, and the bad guys bring some very serious Chinese firepower to the proceedings. Most importantly, it never feels cheap.I could go on and on about all the things I love in this film, from the corny, intentionally bad one-liners (Now what?), to the genuinely inventive deaths (toilets still make me laugh), to the over-the-top, comedic gore. I guess the only thing that I really need to say is definitely check this one out if you think you can laugh with it. There's a time and a place for your Shawshank Redemptions and your Killing Fields, but for the other times, slap this one on. Preferably surrounded by like-minded guys and a crate of beer. "},{"Title":"Bile Rising","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I can't stand this kind of film, but I ought to explain CGI monster-baddies throughout and split shots to facilitate their non-existence. A script so vacuous farting is greeted with grave nods of agreement. Stereotypes knocked off with explicit goryness. Viewing requirements demanding a suspension of disbelief equivalent to labotomy or total anesthesia. Even the extras' acting is noticeably bad.Still Sommers knows about people like me, I guess, so the 'break glass in case of restless postmodern audience' alarm is firmly smashed in. Famke Janssen sparks the place up a bit by grinning with 'I'm the beautiful one so I live' optimism, and takes her cues from Treat Williams' grizzled hero with a monopoly of ennui-fat one-liners. Big guns and a cast that love using them per se maintain the style over substance modus operandi with ham acting. We laugh at them and they laugh at themselves. It's all great fun in the end. Isn't it?No it's not. It's a total waste of my money and time, and now I've got a doctor's bill for having my molten brain reconstituted, not to mention a lifetime's bearing the embarrassment of having seen the film in the first place. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Ummm...what??  =8/","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is an over-long, boring, stupid bucket of chum, sort of a cross between Anaconda and Jaws, and it's just plain stupid.  Basically, Treat Williams leads a campy gang of no-goodniks through international waters to rob an ocean-liner (!!), and meets the multi-tentacled thing of doom, which is unstoppable and everywhere at once.  The CGI effects are cheesy - just what the hell is that squid-thing supposed to be, anycow??  The action scenes are dull and cowtrived, many things go boom for no real reason, and Treat Williams gives his best 3rd rate Bruce WIllis imitation, to no avail. Famke Jassen is lovely to look at, but wasted, and the ending is massively groan-inducing.  Proceed at yer own risk.   MooCow says Deep Rising is a deep cowflop. =8P  "},{"Title":"monster action movie","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Mercenaries led by Hanover (Wes Studi) hire John Finnegan (Treat Williams)'s boat whose motto is When the cash is there, we do not care. Finnegan finds out that they're carrying torpedoes and they are tracking a luxury liner. The cruise ship Argonautica is on her maiden voyage which is owned by Simon Canton (Anthony Heald). Trillian (Famke Janssen) is a thief looking to make a score. The ship is attacked by some unknown force from below. By the time Hanover and his men board the ship, it seems to be empty with blood everywhere.It's a monster movie. The problem is that I don't care about most of these characters so I couldn't care less when one of them bites it. It's got some monster fun and shoot them up fun. It's a slick bigger budget action monster B-movie. However, it all feels a little pointless. "},{"Title":"Treat Williams is the highlight here","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" When Ridely Scott's Alien (1979) was first released, it was one of the first films to depict realistic horror in the setting of space. During the beginning of the last half of the 20th century, space exploration had a big influence on culture and society. Making the leap forward in science and technology made people very curious about what was beyond our planet. One of the most imaginative movies to be released during the 1970s was the ever popular Star Wars Episode IV &#x96; A New Hope (1977). It was an ambitious movie and was a large stepping stone for future filmmakers. For Alien (1979), what made it memorable was that it explored the darker side of space and how dangerous it could be. Ever since Ridley Scott's original film, many directors and writers attempted to recreate that formula. This formula ended up molding into the form of people aboard trapped vessels with a monster on the loose inside. During the late 1980s, the setting took place underwater. During the late 1990s, the setting then moved to ship derelicts.Written and directed by upcoming filmmaker Stephen Sommers, this action horror flick is fun but on a very average level. There a number of good components but there's also an equal amount of the bad too. The plot is about a boat transport crew finding out the people who hired them brought explosives with them. Simultaneously they come across an abandoned cruise liner that has a lack of life in it. However, they are not aware of what lurks on the ship. This is just the skimmed version. The writing tends to be a hodge podge of ideas that sometimes feels random and convoluted. The characters don't receive enough development and most of their fates are predictable and cliché. There are even subplots about character backgrounds that are brought up only to be forgotten. What's the point then? There's also forced exposition by certain characters that only serve the purpose of the plot and nothing else. Topping that off is a slew of characters that aren't very likable.Leading this group of individuals is John Finnegan (Treat Williams), a headstrong navigator who thinks saying now what will be the next big catchphrase. Following Finnegan is Joey Pantucci (Kevin J. O'Connor), the sidekick complainer. The people Finnegan is transporting is led by Hanover (Wes Studi), a leader who barely changes facial expressions. Under his command is Mulligan (Jason Flemyng), Mamooli (Cliff Curtis), Mason (Clifton Powell), T. Ray (Trevor Goddard) and Vivo (Djimon Hounsou). Aboard the empty ship they come across Simon Canton (Anthony Heald) as the ship's owner and Trillian St. James (Famke Janssen). Of these actors, the only highlight to this cast is Treat Williams because of his B-movie presence. Even with him repeating his non-worthy catchphrase, Williams is able to make his presence known and enjoyable. No other actor matches his skill and that's rather shocking considering Janssen would later be more known for role in X-Men (2000).The action in this movie is mostly present here. There's probably more of that than gore but they both are there. There's several shootings, explosions and even a couple nasty blunt trauma attacks. For gore, this is actually director Stephen Sommers first rated R film. Before this, all of his works were PG and Sommers definitely shows he wasn't going to be scarce with the carnage. The blood isn't flowing all over the place but there is a hefty amount. This ranges from severed limbs, to skeletons and bloody floors. This particularly belongs to the set design, props and special effects. If there's one more thing to say that doesn't work, it's the special effects. Not every shot looks really fake but there are moments where the CGI and live-action background do not mix well enough to look authentic. There's also a scene where the distinction is jarringly different. This is when the actual actors are supposed to be touching the monster. The creature design itself is okay though.It's not the most original concept but it does make some gross noises, is rather agile and has an interesting way of killing people. The camera-work was decent though. The director of photography to this project was Howard Atherton. Atherton also worked on Fatal Attraction (1987) and Michael Bay's Bad Boys (1995). Although Atherton's work is competent and captures as much of the set as he can, it does get angular at times. Apparently Atherton likes to have dutch angles. They aren't super tilted but for some it could get annoying. The film score was composed by Jerry Goldsmith, a veteran of this type of film genre. Goldsmith also scored the music to Alien (1979) and Leviathan (1989), of which focused on people being trapped in a small place. The music isn't the most recognizable but it does have a main theme for the title and its monster. The cues also contain a lot of horns and percussion beats to emulate the power of the creature. It's alright.This movie has been seen before plenty of times with a group of people on an isolated vessel trying to survive a creature attack. It's disappointing too because Treat Williams is literally the only highlight to the cast. The music, action, horror and camera-work are fine but Stephen Sommers' writing didn't get enough revisions. Unfortunately, it's only mediocre at best. "},{"Title":"Low grade B level movie","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Although Deep Rising was a big budget movie made by a major Hollywood studio, there were times (make that MANY times) I thought I was watching a slightly glossier B movie made for the SyFy network. Some parts of the movie do look slick and expensive, but many times the movie has a cramped cardboard feel. This includes the monster of the movie, which is rendered by CGI effects that look somewhat cut-rate. (I must add that the effects of the ship at sea also look pretty bad.) But a better look to the movie wouldn't solve all its problems; the movie takes quite a while to get going, for one thing. Also, the movie's characters are pretty familiar stereotypes, which may be why most of the cast doesn't give very enthusiastic performances. However, Kevin J. O'Connor does get his comic relief character to give some badly needed spark to the movie. Is there anything else of merit? Well, some of the gore effects are quite pleasing. And I will admit I was never BORED by the movie, though as I said, the movie does take a while to start taking off. But at the same time, I was telling myself that I could be watching a much better movie. I would only recommend this movie on an especially slow night when you can't find anything better to watch. "},{"Title":"One of the best B-movies of all time. I Love It. Great monster flick.","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Plot The captain of a small transport boat, his engineer friend, and a group of badass mercenaries board a seemingly abandoned cruise ship in the middle of the south china sea, unbeknownst to them however, the ship has become taken over by a massive sea monster which fully intends to kill anyone who dares enter it's domain. Also along for the ride are a jewel thief and the ship's owner and captain. The rest of the story plays out as a survival saga as our heroes fight their way off the ship through superior fire power and lots of exploding sea creature anatomy.This film has been a favorite of mine since i first saw it luckily, back in February 1998 during it's original theatrical run. I'm a huge fan of monster movies and action pictures, so to see a film that combined the two so seamlessly and inventively was a treat. The special effects are top notch with good practical effects work from Rob Bottin of John Carpenter's The Thing fame. Special mention should be given to the half digested man scene which to this day still gives me the creeps. The creature is a well realized menace of pure aquatic terror, resembling a mix between a T-Rex, octopus, snake, and starfish, it truly resembles something one would not want to encounter in real life but also an original beast, one which has it's own uniqueness and personality which hasn't been seen on the big screen since. The CGI to bring the creature to life is great and as good as anything seen in Jurassic Park. The tentacle effects, especially the scenes depicting their movement throughout the ship in pipes and hallways, has a sense of realism rarely seen in monster pictures, the way they slither like a snake and slowly crawl towards their victims before eating them shows a sign in intelligence not just in the main body in the creature but in the the individual parts as well. It's like the tentacles have brains of their own. Besides the effects of the film, which still hold up to this day, the production design and art direction are spectacular, the interior of the ship is incredibly detailed, with the ship before the monster's arrival looking like a luxury resort, filled with bars, a massive staircase, a casino, and a stage area on the main floor, it truly is a paradise on the high seas. I especially like all the touches of Chinese memorabilia and history sprinkled throughout the party room where all the activity of the ship is held. The sets of the ship being abandoned and the halls of the ship being flooded also are well done and do a nice job of showing the geography of the ship and just how massive it truly is. Regarding the performances, special mention must be made of Treat Williams very entertaining Han Solo sequel performance as John Finnegan. Williams brings so much swagger, charm, and self-awareness to the role that u enjoy spending time in his company and hope he makes it to the end in one peace. He also holds his own in the films action sequences especially in a very neat homage to Terminator 2 towards the end of the film involving him, a jet ski, closed elevator doors, and a shotgun. It's very unrealistic and over the top but who cares it' s a hell of a lot a fun. The supporting cast is excellent especially Famke Janssen as the thief/love interest to Williams character. She's a strong female character who holds her own with the men. Kevin J O Connor is funny as Williams comic relief sidekick. Anthony Heald as the owner of the ship has fun as a slimy villain. The actors who play the mercenaries all are good and memorable and have a few bits of funny dialogue during their characters introduction scene. Everyone who was apart of this film seemed to be having a blast making it, which shows in the final film, making it easier for me as an audience member to want to go on the ride. The writing in the film is top notch and is filled to the brim with funny one liners. The direction is just as good, Stephen Sommers the man who would later bring us the Brendan Fraser mummy movies and Van Helsing, knows the kind of film he is making and just goes for broke delivering a completely satisfying monster action movie. He doesn't waste time on needless exposition on what the monster is or where it came from. He directs action well and keeps the film moving at a brisk pace. The look of the film also is of note with almost the entire setting taking place during a thunderstorm, surrounded by pouring rain and low hanging clouds which give the film an ominous atmosphere, further pushing the idea the sense of danger and isolation in which our characters find themselves. So wrapping up my thoughts I love this movie it's a fun and fast paced thrill ride with good performances, solid direction, a cool and unique creature, and last but not least features one of the coolest movie guns ever put to celluloid (the M1-L1 triple pulse rifle is something to behold). It goes without saying I highly recommend this film and will continue to watch it for many years to come, hopefully with my review I can bring more awareness to the film's existence and it can grow a bigger cult following, it deserves it. So thanks for reading my review and good day. "},{"Title":"The epitome of bad January cinema","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Deep Rising begins with a text informing us that many ships have mysteriously disappeared over the South China Sea. The million dollar question is How did they sink? The suggested answer is that undiscovered sea monsters swim up to the surface and sink them. After exploiting the mystery of what undiscovered life lurks within the depths of the ocean, the film introduces us to some of the characters John Finnegan (Treat Williams), Joey Pantucci (Kevin J. O'Connor), Leila (Una Damon), Hanover (Wes Studi), Mulligan (Jason Flemyng), Mamooli (Cliff Curtis), Mason (Clifton Powell), T. Ray (Trevor Goddard), and Vivo (Djimon Hounsou). The first three are doing business with the other six by transporting them to an unknown location by boat. Little does Finnegan (the owner of the boat and leader of the business) know that, for insurance money, someone is paying Hanover, Mulligan, Mamooli, Mason, T. Ray, and Vivo to sink a cruise ship with hundreds of people on it. As the mercenaries' client sabotages the ocean liner's motor functions, something from deep beneath the ocean's surface slams into the hull. When Finnegan and the others arrive and board the ship, nobody is on board, but there is blood everywhere. Soon after, the characters find themselves fighting for their lives against enormous, man-eating sea creatures with tentacles.Deep Rising is a shoddy, ludicrous, and utterly incompetent disaster. Its putrid directing and writing leave it completely devoid of anything a real action-packed horror movie should have Elegance, chills, convincing visual effects, plot, authentic characters, originality, and excitement.The directing is unbelievably garish. Director Stephen Sommers has always felt the need to make his movies humorous, and that's fine, but none of the humor in Deep Rising is actually funny. Most of it is just annoying, like when, before the monsters show up, some of the mercenaries maniacally shoot their automatic weapons at a sudden noise and don't stop until told to. In addition, there are plenty of horrific things that happen in the film, but none of it is horrifying or chilling at all. To name just one example, a half digested but still living man is shot out of a monster's stomach. This scene is intended to be disturbing, but instead it's silly and superfluous, and will only make the viewer roll his or her eyes.Since we see so much of the monsters in Deep Rising, one would think the filmmakers would have made them look better than they do. Instead, they look remarkably cheesy for 1998. The fact that the creatures are computer generated images is so obvious, and their movement is choppy. This, along with the endless but poorly shot action sequences, makes the movie very non-thrilling.The atrocious story and screenplay are the worst thing about Deep Rising. The premise is a mishmash of other movies Some people are trapped onboard a sinking ship (The Poseidon Adventure) with monsters that prey upon human beings (Alien, only with more than one monster). The plot is riddled with errors in logic, such as the monsters' tentacles breaking vault doors off their hinges and warping metal walls, or people handing others loaded guns to kill themselves with instead of just shooting them themselves. The dialogue consists mostly of characters sniping at each other and saying boring rhetorical questions like where the h*** is everybody? or what the h*** are those things?, leaving little room for actual content. Since none of what happens is compelling at all, the viewer will have trouble paying attention and will forget things before the movie is over. And the characters are so shallow and under-acted that even Finnegan, the main character, matters about as much as an extra in any movie of any decency. There is no concern about their fates or the general outcome of the plot. This, along with a host of already mentioned problems, spells a project high on inanity and devoid of excitement. Guns are fired, soulless people die, stuff blows up, and that's about it. Will the heroes survive? Will the villains die horribly? Not only does no one care, but the answers are never in doubt, due to how predictably derivative Deep Rising is.    For emptiness, cheesiness, inappropriate tone, and sheer lack of power, Deep Rising cannot be beaten - nor for wretchedness. It's too awful for adults and too violent for children, and I encourage you to avoid it. "}{"Title":"An ocean full of secrets","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The ocean... think about the ocean... What is it really? There's more water than everything else in our world. Do you really think we know what's in there... in those deep waters.The director of the excellent The Mummy has probably made the most slick and entertaining creature movie this far. Deep Rising is so incredibly underrated. I really think this one should be there in the top... together with Carpenters The Thing and Camerons Aliens.I think this special ocean is really frightening. In one scene Famke Janssens character goes out on deck and looks out into the dark night... and in the background we hear the creatures roar. Scenes like that gives me a sense of, something I use to call, a clear cold. I don't expect you to understand, but I have the same feeling in movies like Deep Blue Sea (when Skarsgard is pushed by the shark) and especially in 2001 A Space Odyssey. Even if that movie takes place in space... there's is that feeling of an empty helplessness... a clear cold so to say.But don't think Deep Rising is like 2001. No... this is a highly effective action/adventure where a great looking and really quick creature appears and gives the hero and his crew a really hard time. Treat Williams is good and the beautiful Famke Janssen does one of her best performances. I really like her character. Everything about this movie is cool and so very entertaining. The ending is really funny and I would love to see a sequel on the new-found island. Great director Sommers went on to make The Mummy, which sometimes is very similar to this one. He has the touch of style and knows how to entertain an audience. I look forward to Mummy 2.If you love monster-movies, you have to see this one. I don't think you will be disappointed. Have fun! "},{"Title":"great sci-fi horror","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep rising is a good movie. I liked it because it kept you on the edge of you seat. It had a lot of adventure. The acting was good. I loved the guts and gore this movie has. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes science fiction/ horror movies, and a movie that gives you a good thrill ride. "},{"Title":"Just another monster movie","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is nothing special.  The acting is terrible, the characters have no more development than their names or accents and the special effects are marginal.  The plot is that a seaman and his crew are hired by a bunch of tough-looking mercenaries to drive them to an unknown point in the ocean. The mercenaries are actually going to hijack a fancy cruiseliner with a bunch of automatic weapons and torpedoes.  When they finally arrive, some monster has taken over the boat and there's only a bunch of decaying bodies and ten or so members of the crew left, along with one female passenger. The plot gets worse and more guns, monsters, bodies, and explosions occur. It is extremely predictable and pretty boring for most of the movie.  The ending is supposed to be ironic, funny, or clever or something, but is really just stupid.  If you're looking for a cheap-thrills monster movie than this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Rollar coaster ride from Calmari Productions?","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This was just one of those movies you have to suspend your deep thoughts and just Go With It.  I was surprised that I enjoyed this as much as I did.  I didn't have high expectations.  It had no pretentions and was clearly campy on purpose.  I thought it was better than several of the Aliens series and all of the Scream ripoffs.  Pretty good humor too.  Can't wait to see what they have in mind for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Lovecraftian monsters + Famke = Mmmm...tasty!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The fact that it doesn't take itself seriously once is its' saving grace. With full-on suspension of disbelief engaged, it is a good monster comfort movie on a dark wet boat.  Stephen Sommers is on his way to becoming a master of the popcorn movie.  What is a popcorn movie?  It's a movie that has enough cheap but effective scares in it to spook your date out from under the blanket, sending popcorn everywhere and then you get to spank her for making a mess.  Spot on, Mr. Sommers!  When we want character development, we'll go see Merchant/Ivory.  In between I'll take Kevin J. O'Connor playing comic relief to the one-line stylings of Treat Williams and B. Fraser.  Author!  Author! "},{"Title":"a thrill ride","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising was a thrill ride of a motion picture.  It was loaded with action, excitement, cool special effects, and unexpected humor.  It was a combination of Die Hard, Alien, and Titanic all rolled together with great results.  Sure, it was a little unoriginal, but it was great fun.  In closing, I would just like to say it was the most entertaining movie I've seen in a long time.  "},{"Title":"A fun B-movie!","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I had one heck of a lot of fun watching Deep Rising.  It was just the type of film that didn't take itself too seriously and never tried to be anything more than it was.  After seeing this, I'm extremely excited to see Stephen Sommers's The Mummy, the other ILM film of Summer '99.  "},{"Title":"Not worth your time or money","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This was one of the worst horror films I have ever seen.  The creatures were unbelievable and had no character, the crew was predictable and poorly acted, and the music was the worst to which I have ever been subjected.Just about the only (slightly) redeeming factor were the computer graphics and special effects, which were adequate.  "},{"Title":"A Cruise  Liner and its passengers (except a few ) are destroyed by mutant undersea monster","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I saw the movie Deep Rising earlier this year and I must admit I really enjoyed it. Kevin J. O'Connors character Joey was a breath of fresh air with his wise-cracks. Trevor Goddard, an Aussie actor wasn't as menacing in his previous role of Keefer in Men Of War. The effects were spectacular and and times in the film all the characters seem doomed. Hopefully there will be a sequel because the audience were left in suspense at the end of the film.I can't wait until it comes out on Video. "},{"Title":"Definitely a Jim movie.","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I didn't buy Treat Williams as a bad guy in Phantom. As an action hero (cept for substitute 2) he has a niche. As a B movie I would have to give it a plus. A sequel would be cool.  "}{"Title":"This film has everything!","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Treat Williams, tough mercenaries, monsters, a heist, awesome weapons, that funny weird guy, a Carter Burke, Famke, Damon, Wes Studi, a jet ski scene and a hot Korean chick.......the only thing missing is a lightsaber battle.I love crazy movies like this that take all kinds of wild elements and just somehow come together. This movie isn't great art, but it is FUN! I saw this in the theater with my dad when it came it out and I remember us being pleasantly surprised. The film has some genuinely good action sequences and moments of actual horror. When I'm bored or feeling down, I watch this and feel a little better. "},{"Title":"Cheesy,over the top but extremely fun","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" The cheese oozes of this movie. But what I like about this movie that despite the silly and ridiculous premise the viewer still can get caught in the tense situations created on screen. The cast does an excellent job in convincing the audience that there is a real threat out there and at the same time also tell you that you shouldn't take things so seriously.Treat Williams is a master in doing that. His loose acting is one of the main reasons that this movie works. Deep Rising is fast paced and offers non stop action. It doesn't give you much time to think about how silly certain events are. In stead you are rewarded with hard hitting action and just the right amount of comedy and gore to keep watching. I had no idea that Stephen Sommers directed this otherwise I would have watched this much sooner. Better late than never. Pure fun and entertainment! "},{"Title":"Finally an enjoyable aquatic monster movie!","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I've seen countless monster movies over the years. I found great fun in films like The Blob, Tremors and Alien, but I was always searching for a good aquatic monster movie. The ones I did watch disappointed me; some more then others. I'm talking about The Deep, Deepstar six, Deep blue sea, Leviathan and the Sphere. Some might disagree with me on this, but I'm just stating my honest opinion here.Then I came across this movie.I honestly didn't know what to expect. The fact that Famke Jansen played in it made me curious, as I love most movies she plays in. So I decided to give it a shot and popped the sucker into the DVD-player.From start to finish, I was quite surprised. This is a very enjoyable movie! The acting is good. Sure, it could have been better at some parts, but in overall; the characters act like how normal persons would behave in their situation. As I mentioned, Famke Jansen delivers another great performance. The lead, Treat Williams, also plays a great role as the captain of his 'ship'.I especially liked how the story developed. The movie starts a tad slow, but this gives you the chance to learn a bit or two about the characters. This usually helps; although not required in a monster movie. By the time the film really starts, the action doesn't stop.Moving to the CGI effects; I'd have to say it was done pretty nice. The monster(s) move pretty cool and it's not often you see giant aquatic worms devour people whole, right? There's also gore in this film. Not that you drown in it (no pun intended), but there are some gruesome scenes. If you are a gore fan, however, you will find some fun in this movie. There are no flying limbs all the time, but let's just say that this movie has it's fair share of blood and bodies.The only bad thing I can say about this film is the ending, but you have to see it for yourself.So, in overall, this is definitely not a bad movie. In it's genre, I dare to say that it's one of the better movies. If you are a fan of (aquatic) monster movies, I say check it out! You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"How high's the water, mama?","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" This is a trash-pearl as is should be! A group of mercenaries alongside with the crew of a hired speed-yacht enters a luxury-liner somewhere in the pacific. The mission is to loot and sink it for an insurance-betrayal. But all the intruders find is a bloodfeast left from crew and passengers... where are the bodies? Few survivors can be found and not all of them turn out to be helpful. The story is the regular jump-and-run, details are unnecessary to reveal here and earn a spoiler-alert. What makes this flick better than the usual 'cloaked-as-b-picture-blockbuster' then? Simple that it truly IS a b-picture with premier-league-cast! If you liked &#132;Tremors you know in what tradition it works only gorier and with the bizarre moments from for example &#132;Anaconda. This movie is made with love and creativity. It doesn't steal from other cult-classics, it salutes them! As in the diving-sequence that reminds of that one in &#132;Alien-Resurrection. Have your personal &#132;Find-the-reference-contest while watching it. Outstanding is, that the producers managed to cast some stars which the least people would expect here and who all do work for their money. They don't just play &#150; they portray; and give each their characters personal notes and individuality. Therein lies another quality of this flick.Treat Williams gets better and better with the years &#132;Mullholland Falls, &#132;Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead and ... &#132;Deep Rising. Note to Quentin & Robert hire this guy. Famke Jansen was just between &#132;OO7-GoldenEye and &#132;X-Men, doing &#132;Deep Rising and &#132;The Faculty in '98. That year she proved she can refine trash-horror with sexiness, style, humor and brains. I like her '98 work most. But I would die in... FOR Xenia Onatopp.Wes Studi as the mercenary-leader really deserves a major-part in a long-time running movie series on blockbuster-niveau. He was brilliant in &#132;Heat, he proceeds here. &#132;GEEEROOOOONNNIIIIIIIMMMOOOOOOOOOO........!!!!!!!!Derrick O'Connor plays what he always plays... and we are grateful for that. If it ain't broke, don't fix it.Anthony Heald gives an awesome performance as lunatic criminal mastermind close to his play as the warden in &#132;Silence Of The Lambs.Director Stephen Sommers had greater success with &#132;The Mummy in the following. Good thing he made this hidden jewel before. Editing and camera work well, they compensate the lack of revolutionary FX with classical means like for example subjective camera-angles and good soundfx ... and again the cast!I regularly put this on my DVD-player and have 100 perfect minutes of easy and funny entertainment. Additionally the (rather squarehead) public-broadcasting-agency ARD here in Germany regularly aires this film in the later night fully uncut (I think). God knows why, they either have no clue what they got there or they have one rogue in their staff who's into decent low-budget-horror. But thanks to whoever may be responsible.This comment is dedicated to Trevor Goddard (&#132;J.A.G., &#132;Pirates Of The Caribbean-TCotBP) who sadly passed away in 2003. Here he portrays one of the mercenaries, tormented by sea-sickness, nevertheless ultimately cool-looking. Vaya con dios... und &#132;Mast- und Schotbruch! "},{"Title":"One big homage - really cool flick!","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I really enjoyed this flick when I watched it at the local cinema many years ago. It still holds up, and is one of those rare movies you can see over and over again, even though nothing is original about it. What makes it great is that you can see the filmmakers love the genre and loved to make this film. It sparkles with fine performances (I especially like the nuanced performance by Jason Flemyng), scary moments, funny dialog and scenes and great (for the time) SFX. A bit of advise though; this movie was not made to be original nor groundbreaking, but more like a tribute to all the best movies from the genre. It copies and lends from several of the 70's and 80's biggest hits, but does it extremely well and somehow still manages to have its own personal touch. In my opinion this is a hidden gem and proof that it is possible to make great and entertaining b-movies with competent actors and thrills. Rent this with your friends and see it with lots of popcorn and snacks. Movies made to entertain, and nothing else, doesn't get much better. Trivia The region 1 DVD has a 2.351 letterbox image with DD 5.1 sound. The region 2 DVD has 2.351 anamorphic picture, but only Dolby Pro Logic. I prefer the region 2 DVD because of the much better picture. I hope a new Special Edition DVD will be made soon. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Monster movies hold few surprises. There will be a large ensemble cast and a scientifically preposterous monster or two, who will systematically eat said cast. A handful may survive.What makes a monster movie stand out, then, is characters and pace - and Deep Rising delivers in spades. This movie is relentless, and really funny, often when it means to be. Treat Williams and Famke Janssen provide some of the best work of their careers.The film has a high enough budget that the creatures look really good - actually super creepy - and there's plenty of gore and impractically flashy sci-fi guns.It's not an Oscar winner, but I own it on both VHS and DVD. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the best most under-appreciated games.","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Original released in 1990 for the Turbografx-16 console. Bonks Adventure was a cute and lovable platformer that introduced the lovable character Bonk. Who would eventually go on to become the systems mascote. Many people missed out on this under-appreciated classic. Mainly due to the failure of the Turbografx-16. However, now Bonk Adventure has become available on the Wii's Virtual Console service. While it remains clear that Bonk hasn't aged very well. It still remains that everyone who missed out on this classic should give it a look.In Bonks Adventure you take control of the lovable character Bonk. As he must single handedly must save Princess Zaa from the evil King Drool. This means fighting threw many different lands and hordes of enemies to get to the King himself. To fight off the forces of evil, Bonk must use his fead. No, seriously, thats no fabrication. While characters like Mario are known for jumping on enemies to wipe them out. Bonk uses his large over-sized head to bash out the forces of evil. I'll be it, head-butting enemies, falling head first on them, or even flying threw the air and letting his head take out all of the baddies for him. His name is Bonk, and he lets his head do the work.There are five worlds in Bonks Adventure. Each has many levels, and eventually a boss at the end of the world. You can move pretty briefly threw those worlds, and could eventually complete the game in only a hour or so. Adding to this unfortionate factor is the fact that Bonks Adventure is a very easy game. While the game never really had a very high level of challenge back in its day. Its even more apparent now, playing the game in 2007. Its one of the real draw backs of the game, that shows that Bonks Adventure just doesn't hold up very well to todays standards.From a presentation standpoint, Bonk did wonders on the Turbografx-16. And Bonks Adventure still holds up fairly well. While it still has the same problem that other Turbografx-16 games on the Virtual Console have had of being a little washed out visually. The graphics still look very nice and colorfull. The worlds are vibrant and cheerful and do a good job of giving the world of Bonk its own special personality. The sound is also decent. The tunes and music that take place in each world are nice and enjoyable for the ears. And while none of it is very memorable, it is still a good experience for your time in the game. The sound effects on the other hand don't hold-up quite as well as the music. But there not terrible, or will grate at your nerves.While its very apparent that Bonks Adventure hasn't aged very well over the years. Its still an irresistibly fun game for the hour or so it lasts. And will give people some insight into what is without a doubt one of the most unsung mascotes of video game history. As well as give some people an idea of what the Turbografx-16 was like. The game is going for 600 Wii points ( 6$ ) for the download off of the Virtual Console. And while the game is short and very easy. Its more then likely that you will find it a worthy purchase after its all said and done. "},{"Title":"A talented cast in a underrated action-sci fi-horror flick","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" From start to finish, Deep Rising is a terrific film, it's a shame it is so underrated. It's common knowledge that any film starring the sensational Famke Janssen is going to be good, and here (a pre X-Men fame) Famke shows off just how well she can take a stock character and make her into something fun. She also spends half the movie running around in a classy dress that must have been hard to do with all the action scenes, but she pulls it off well.The rest of the cast also take stock characters and make them likable. Treat Williams is always good to watch, and easy on the eye too. He plays the action hero Finnegan well, thought it would have been nice to see a bit more interaction between him and Famke's Trillian. Wes Studi is terrific as the commanding villain Hanover, and Boston Publics Anthony Heald is a far-cry from his usual self, but well done as the malicious Canton. Derek O'Connor is good as poor Captain Atherton, and New Zealand actor Cliff Curtis is great as Mamooli. Trevor Goodard (RIP) is great as the bad mannered T-Ray, and fun to watch. Kevin J O'Connor however plays such an annoying character. (I also don't see the point of him surviving).The premise of the film is straight forward - Hanover hires Finnegan and his two crew to take him and his men out to the cruise ship owned by Canton who he is working with. They plan to sink the ship to get insurance, and steal all the money and jewels aboard. Instead, a giant sea monster attacks, and the plans are turned upside down. The special effects are good, though the monster isn't shown enough, and the bodies off all the passengers are not easy to look at! Overall, a terrific B-Grade film to watch late at night. Famke is spectacular as always, and plenty of thrills and action. All we need now is a Collectors Edition DVD. "},{"Title":"By no means good. But nevertheless entertaining.","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Let me begin by pointing out what an odd phenomenon it is that those films which are not critically acclaimed and by no means excellent achievements in film-making, are always the films which can be watched over and over again, without losing any of there 'schtick' or appeal. Deep Rising is one such film.I have seen Deep Rising 11 times (and not I might add, by going and hiring it as it has been on TV each time).It is predictable, formulaic, terribly scripted and lamely acted (for the most part). It employs every token character The sheepish owner, the nice-guy hero, the attractive damsel in distress, the funny sidekick (who fails to be funny), the arrogant mission man, the stupid henchmen...etc.The camera-work and direction is average although it is set on-board a luxury cruise liner, everything is so cramped and there is very little hint of space above the trails in which most of the action takes place. The result is a claustrophobic presentation of action/thrills/and horror.Yet despite all of these flaws (and there are many!) the film manages to remain entertaining on some level;- you know whats going to happen and you know how its going to happen and there is a good chance you also know who it is going to happen to- the entertainment is in watching it happen to make what you thought correct.The film's saving grace is Famke Janssen as the only female we see for most of the movie in what is mostly a testosterone fuelled affair. Other than she, the other saving grace is some pretty good special effects and the fact that the film can be watched over and over again, no matter how bad it is and still make you laugh (perhaps at the frivolity of it!).Deep Rising is one of those films which will most likely be shown on TV at about midnight (as it has been each of the 11 times I've watched it). This is not a bad thing as it is the perfect way to fill in a Friday or Saturday night when your plans fell through and you have nothing to do or watch.Watch Deep Rising...its NOT the best...but it'll keep you entertained be it through horror and thrills or sheer laughter! 6/10.Cheers! "},{"Title":"Deep rising is most certainly one to watch.","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Well, I'm a Jason Flemyng fan, which is what drove me to actually watch this film in the first place. Okay so lets face it, no sci-fi film will ever match 'Alien' and no deep sea terror will ever match 'Jaws', but the combination of sea-scare and sci-fi in Deep rising is both thrilling and unnerving. The humour is most definitely creditable and the style of the film (Obviously stylised by the director) is worth looking at. I'd say its worth sitting down for an hour and a half to watch purely for some of the lines, And if you're a Jason Flemyng fan its definitely worth watching! He's good in it. The effects are not too bad, and the script is both funny and frightening in different parts of the film. If you dislike bones breaking, there is a bit in the film you may not wish to see. Just a warning because i don't like it, but on the whole its a Very good film. One to watch when its raining late at night.so if its a mix of humour, action and horror with a touch of gore that you're looking for, head for the shops and watch this! Its worth your time. Highly amusing. Definitely for Jason fans (He's pretty hot in it). "}{"Title":"Now What!","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" When i first saw the making of Deep Rising, i knew it was going to be a sea monster film which i love. It was simular to Virus starring Jamie Lee Curtis, but with sea creatures from far below the deep china sea.It took me ages to find it, but when i did i really enjoyed it especially with joeys little sarcastic jokes and Finnagan kicking one of the pirates in the lift and saying  I heard you the first time, and they all say  stand down you which is really funny. Its a low budgit film, but has great catchphrases and good special effects. The 1 scene that i thought was ewww, was when they are in the contruction room, and arguning about simon kent destroying the communications equipment and ther sea monster is in the pipes and finnagen shoots it and the 1 pirate is all deformed and missing half his head and you can see all his internal organs and bit. ( NICE) "},{"Title":"Good Movies make Good Reviews?","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" DEEP RISING got lost in theaters February of 1998 right in the middle of the Titanic craze. It's obvious which film stood the test of time. Leonardo who? This movie IS fun. It was a blast in theaters and it holds its own at home. So why the low ratings? Do people dismiss tongue-in-cheek humor and less than state-of-the-art digital magic as unintentional, cheesy, and cheap? Stephen Sommers has both a knack for humor and photography. It's fortunate that Stephen Somers other films, THE MUMMY, RETURNS, and even VAN HELSING found an audience. Now they can find a better movie on DVD. SE please? People like to watch his films, they just don't like to like'em. The humor is intentional. You suppose to laugh at it. He doesn't make it obvious but it's easy to find if you look for it. This cheese tastes great. It's all done on purpose. They show the monster, and it looks great, damn it. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining adventure plot being forced into a monster B movie genre.","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" When I picked up this seemingly stupid B movie, I was ready to have fun. You know how when people talk bad about awful logics and scenes in a monster/ghost movie like Freddy vs. Jason, Resident Evil, Return of the Dead, Hellraiser, Omen, Children of the Corn, Anaconda, etc. There will always be this fan boy who would stand up and defend it by saying you are not supposed to watch it for logic. You suppose to just watch it for fun. And that was my plan. To watch a couple of characters barking off cliché, and see them get kills off (probably for using cliché) until a very few people survive in the end. Most likely a hot blonde. There's a certain level of charm to those type of movie. It's like watching a James Bond movie. So what if in the latest installment the bad guys (who craves world domination... what else?) keep revealing his evil plot to Bond and refused to kill him while he had the chance? Come on, it's a Bond for god sake. So if there are going to be some We have to get out of here, or This all happens because of you, and especially You mess with mother nature, now looks what happen, in this movie; I was more than ready to let it go.But there's nothing to forgive. The movie is surprisingly sophisticated. Simple, and yet original. The meat of the plot didn't took place in the past, like How did this all happen? and Who's to blame for this mess? But instead, it's more concentrated in the present. Okay, we are here... now what?. There's no B movie cliché here. Sure, all the bad guys didn't do what the main character say and get killed for it, and all the main characters... have the chance of showing up in a sequel. And there are a bunch of cute one liner. And the hero have a funny sidekick. But that's not a monster movie cliché, it's an adventure movie cliché. Something we haven't seen for a very long time now. If there's one element that hurts this movie, it is the special effect, specifically the monster itself. It looks like it's coming off of Xena or Hercules (in other words, the monster is clearly not there).It's not too bad, but that is why it couldn't compete with other monster hit like Jurassic Park and Deep Blue Sea.I'm glad the writer and director get noticed and went on to do mega-hits movie like Mummy and Van Helsing, carrying over the same type of humor and action. This movie is basically a PG-13 adventure movie hiding itself in rated-R B monster movie clothing. Without the blood and the swearing, it will still be just as fun because of the twist and turn and the adventure element. If you are looking for a monster movie that is really fun, this is the one.Panasit "},{"Title":"Tremendous fun without getting too serious.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Stephen Sommers has been responsible for some good action-adventure films over the last few years - The Mummy, The Mummy Returns etc and also some awful stinkers - Van Helsing. Deep Rising falls somewhere in the middle, but definitely on the more good than bad side.It doesn't take itself seriously, there's precious little character development, and the CGI is a bit ropey in places. Despite this, it succeeds at entertaining mainly through the likeability of its main characters - Treat Williams, Famke Jansen, Kevin O'Connor and a host of others whom people will recall seeing someplace before, but not remember where.The action is fairly non-stop and silly, but stops short of Van Helsing's ridiculous cartoonish-ness. As mentioned, the cast are all actually likeable (even the bad guys) and do their roles (however one-dimensional) justice. Nobody sucks and it genuinely looks like they had a good time making the movie.It's not as good as Sommers' now classic The Mummy, but I'd rate it at least as enjoyable as The Mummy Returns (though without the hideous CGI end-of-level monster - so maybe it's a little better) and of course, Deep Rising is much better than Van Helsing.What this has taught me is that Sommers can produce some rip-roaring adventure movies, but he must maintain the focus on the story and not get overly ambitious, and not rely on CGI to cover his ass. Also, wonderful though Hugh Jackman and Kate Beckinsale are, they are not the right kind of actors for a Sommers movie. Treat Williams, Kevin O'Connor, Brendan Fraser and others are just the sort of actor he should keep to when making these sorts of movies - in other words, actors who don't take themselves too seriously when in such roles.In summary then, Deep Rising is entertaining stuff. Don't think too hard and you'll enjoy it tremendously, especially if you liked The Mummy. "},{"Title":"who wouldn't like it?","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  a great mix of action, humor, and horror! Never taking itself too seriously, the movie delivered a believable hero, some chilling scenes, and a boatload of action throughout.  I wish they would have made the sequal the ending so clearly wanted to imply! "},{"Title":"A total eye-opener.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Okay, so my entire family is getting together for some kind of little reunion thingy going on. There are roughly around forty of my family members. We were all meeting at my grandmother's house and on the first night, only eight of us were there. Just me, two of my uncles, my grandma, one of my aunts and three of my cousins. Well, before me and one of my cousins left for my grandma's house, my cousin grabbed a random handful of movies. Well, since there was nothing really desireable in that handful, we watched DEEP RISING, because it was the only one there that looked like something that would wake us up while we were waiting for my other family members to arrive. Well, we were all up and fully aware after this.Action-packed and explosions galore, this is one thrill ride of a movie. The film is mindless, has bad acting, and the story isn't all that original (again, a protege of JAWS and ANACONDA). But, DEEP RISING was probably one of the most explosive action films of the last decade or so. These big, scary monsters start killing off a group of 'survivors' as they try to get off this ship alive. Okay, yeah, we probably could have picked out that plot on a blind guess, because about a million other movies have been made about this.The story flows just like how most of these other films do, but this film wakes you the hell up in the process. There are a number of these movies that you can just sit through and be bored to tears with. I think even my grandma thought this was pretty good. So, yeah, if you want something big and explosive, DEEP RISING is probably one of the best picks out there. Worth the watch, 100%.DEEP RISING 5/5. "},{"Title":"Complete trash","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER WARNING*No one could argue that this film is not terrible.It's a B-movie, plain and simple. What makes it's crapness more acceptable (to me, at least) is that it doesn't try to be anything more than a B-movie. It has no time for the poor 'irony' of The Faculty. The problem with The Faculty is that it thought it was being clever and funny, when in fact it was being self-absorbed and self-celebrating. 'Deep Rising', for all it's many, many flaws keeps things simple. You can sit through this and not be irritated or enraged by any false attempts to impress. I enjoyed watching this movie very very much, for the following reasons1 - there was a fun (if easy) game to be had in guessing which member of the cast would be picked off next. The band of idiots that run around the ship, fall over, get up again, then either get eaten or narrowly escape, consist of Treat Williams' unflinching hero, Famke Jansenn's sexy theif, the money-grabbing captain of the ship, his more moralistic second-in-command, the obligatory 'funny-guy' (that isn't funny) and a group of lacklustre pirates with big guns that yell things like 'Eat this, you w***ers!!!'.2 - it was very funny. The whole thing is a 'Poseidon Adventure' ripoff with seamonsters, but I was astounded when they actually lifted a whole scene more or less from that film (the scene in question being when the gang are forced to swim from one part of the ship to another). What makes this scene even funnier is that at the same time, it rips off Alien Resurrection (with the monsters pursuing the guys, and leave them one member short).3 - Famke Jansenn. You could tell she didn't want to be in this crap, bless her. Anyway, she is the best thing about the film, and I'm convinced she'll make an excellent femme fatale in a film noir one day.For all the stupid entertainment I got, there were some huge and unforgivable drawbacks1 - it got way too over the top. It was ridiculous from the start (e.g. a woman is pulled down a toilet!), but when Treat Williams wrestled with a fucking huge squid monster... and won (!) I quickly resented the film. Maybe I'd have forgiven it, but the overlong and completely not thrilling finale went on for at least another 20 minutes after that.2 - way too gory. There was no need for it. It did nothing for the film. A guy falls out of a squids belly, and we see him screaming in agony as his body was half way through being 'drank'. It disappointed me that the film-makers did stuff like that when this film shouldn't be taken seriously at all.3 - the ending. I felt cheated. During the stupid finale, all I was waiting for was a cliched ending with Jansenn and Williams washed up on the beach (it's the type of film where you welcome a cliche and expect them for comic relief). Instead, that idiot Joey (who should really have been killed) shows up, then there's an oh-so-clever 'Faculty' moment when they realise they're not the only inhabitants of the island. Ironic endings can work very well (look at Final Destination), but this fell flat on it's face.In summary, 'Deep Rising' is a ridiculous, unpretentious B-movie that gets too wrapped up in it's own stupidity that it doesn't know when to stop. When it does get round to it, you realise how terrible the film was.4 / 10  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining on many levels!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is a great action/horror film. There is enough humor to keep it moving between the horror and action scenes, and there isn't any of that totally unnecessary sex that is so frequently stuffed into action and horror films.  The primary male and female character do kiss near the end, but they are dressed, and could be in a mall for all the sex it exudes. the monster is cool, and Joey (Kevin O'Connor  Beni in The Mummy)is great!  In fact he's now a name we look for as is Famke Janssen (The wife in House on Haunted Hill and Jean Grey in X-MEN). We have been waiting for a sequel (hint to the makers!) as the final line of the movie hinted at  sound of monster in the trees moving towards beach, Treat Williams says, Now What?! If you liked Abyss, and Leviathan, you'll enjoy this one as well. "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Thrills","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is one of my favorite action horror films. I liked, the cast, the story, the action, and the soundtrack. I can understand why the critics didn't rate this one as good as I did. I've enjoyed seeing Famke Janssen, since, Goldeneye, she was great in this film. I kind of felt sorry for, Hanover's Mercenaries, despite their awesome fire-power, they fall victim to the creature one by one. I would love to see a sequal to, Deep Rising, with an equal budget, for the special effects, and cast, the film, does leave a lot of unanswered questions in the end! "},{"Title":"Rising Damp","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  If you are looking for an action/adventure/horror film that has little sense and lots of special effects and self-effacing humour, then look no farther than Deep Rising.  IT is not a great film nor does it ever try to suggest it is anything more than good-natured adventurous fun.  And that it is....very entertaining.  The story concerns a small boat pilot and his mate as they are hired to bring a group of mercenaries to a cruise liner, only to see that upon arrival it is deserted.  What they find in store...is death from a huge sea beast.  The rest of the film chronicles the deaths of many with blood-splashing special effects and a generous dose of laughs.  In fact, most of the dialogue is said with tongue firmly planted in cheek.  Director Sommers does a fine job and shows us here why he was so successful with The Mummy, a film shot in much the same format.  Treat Williams and Anthony Heald do very nicely in their roles, but it is Mummy co-star Kevin J. O'Connor that gets most of the laughs and best lines.  All in all a good way to pass a little time away. "}{"Title":"gosh darned funny","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Treat Williams is the perfect Ash-like hero (from the Evil Dead Trilogy) mugging for the camera and delivering lines like, Geez Loise lady, give a guy a heart attack why don't cha?.  I haven't heard a better line of dialogue than this since Rosebud.  Seriously, great action, great gore, great hero and a fantastic villain (check out his death scream).  From the very beginning you can see that Stephen Sommers has his heart in the right place as Treat Williams boat plows through the ocean as action music pounds on the soundtrack (not innovative, but done very tongue in cheek) and when the Nick Nolte-looking dude toasts the rich on the luxury liner's doomed voyage.  The wackiest movie I have seen since Raimi was pumpin' em out. "},{"Title":"Very gory + Very funny","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I watched this one for the second time last night, and it still IS good. Every actor/actress is still performing great, although I'd have to say Treat Williams and Famke Janssen are the coolest (and Famke is the prettiest, but let's stay focused here). There is no question to whom is the  funniest one IT IS Kevin J.O'Connor. I mean this dude is hilarious, he can't go 5 minutes without some stupid comment that'll make you laugh. The story is not that good though, a bit cliché, but who cares. This is well acted (remember this is a not so high(low) budget horror flick, so don't expect Oscar -  worthy stuff here), gruesome sci &#150; fi entertainment from the first to the last minute. This is the flick that brought Sommers the deal for The Mummy!!!! (you bet ya) Watch it!!! 8 out 10  "},{"Title":"stay at home","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This probably is one of the worst films in the cinema's history.The cast is iper-poor but this is a common lack for a lot of films here all 3 principal actors are double of famous one. So we have a Sandra Bullock double, a Nick Nolte double and a Mel Gibson one. This is heavy to swallow. Listen to an italian advice let your money into your pocket. Bye. "},{"Title":"Excellent, even for a B-grade horror thriller","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I don't understand why so many critics like to pan this movie. Yes the acting may be second rate and the special effects not the level of the Phantom Menace, but come on! This is supposed to be a B-grade thriller and if B-grade movies come like this, then pile it on. There's the usual explosions, pyrotechnics, gore, expensive firearms and daredevil escapades you see in most action movies. The special effects are actually not bad, and the jerky CGI effects of the mutated giant octopus reminds me of movies like Starship Troopers. Deep Rising does not pretend to be what it's not. It's a superbly entertaining and mindless 90-minute ride of a horror-thriller that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Treat Williams, adequately affable and confident as the main hero, is well supported by the nonchalant but coolheaded Famke Janssen. Kevin J O'Connor almost steals the show as the fainthearted but hilarious sidekick of Williams. Also delightful to watch are a motley group of gun-slinging jewel thieves, led by the dour Wes Studi, who play out their roles with wise cracking colorfulness. The movie is tagged as a combination of Titanic, Alien and Die Hard and it sure contains all the latter three elements and doesn't disappoint. Pulsating, invigorating and an enjoyable treat. For a B-grade, this deserves a 10! "},{"Title":"Simply Perfect","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising stands head and shoulders above most movies of this genre. It has the perfect balance of terror, suspense, special effects, music and plot to make it a classic. It also never loses  sight of the fact that it is simply a movie. This is reflected by the tongue in cheek attitude on display at several points of the movie. These instances serve not only as comic relief but also have an endearing quality about them. If you love 50's & 60's monster movies, you can't help but love Deep Rising.  "},{"Title":"A ships captain, mercenaries, and one gigantic sea monster.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising was one of the best movies of 98 in my opinion.  The movie recognizes that it is a grade B flick, but that just helps to make it more the movie.  Treat Williams leads off the cast of no-namers on an unknown mission into the South China sea.  From there the movie begins to do its own thing and a colorful cast emerges; from the daring captain of a ship for hire (Treat Williams) to the whiny ships engineer (Kevin O'Connor).  If I could describe how the script of this movie was made, I'd say a Ship-for-Hire, a mercenary team, a thief, and one huge sea monster; take this and through it in the blender.  If your looking for a decent movie with good action and great comedy to go with it, give this B+ flick a try. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT!!!!!!!","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  DEEP RISING is easily one of the best action/adventure films I have ever seen. An entertaining, wild ride of a movie.Treat Williams, Famke Jannsen and Wes Studi are all top notch and Kevin J O'Conner is quite funny. It is also interesting to see LOCK STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS' Jason Flemyng in there. It is a great pity that DR did not do well at the box office as it is excellent. One of the most underrated films ever made!!!! And yeah... the special FX are mind-blowing too. "},{"Title":"A high action thriller and a a spoof of tremors","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I thought the film was great because of its actors and comedy, but there were down sides to it as well. The lack of plot is the major one because it really has none. All the movie is about is a bunch of guys going after a boat full of money called Argonotaga, and then when they get there it is deserted and there is lots of blood and stuff, then there is this big snake that comes and drinks you and that is about it because i don't wanna ruin it for the people that have not seen it yet. The Movie Critic, Finigin "},{"Title":"A big ship. A big monster. And Famke Janssen in a tight, red dress.","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I've got very little love for The Mummy and Van Helsing, director Stephen Sommers' slick, big-budget, digital effects-filled popcorn monster movie blockbusters, but his earlier creature-feature Deep Rising is a far more worthy effort, despite being just as polished, just as tongue-in-cheek and just as crammed with CGI.That's because, unlike The Mummy and Van Helsing, this one hasn't had its horror elements watered down for family consumption in the multiplex its rapacious, flesh hungry monster from the depths of the ocean is seriously nasty and makes a real mess when it feeds. Kiddie-friendly this movie ain't!The plot is as clichéd as it could get&#x97;a group of mercenaries hijack a cruise ship only to find that it is infested by man-eating tentacled beasties from the sea bed&#x97;and logic plays very little part in matters, but with energetic performances from a game cast, an impressive critter (a mass of writhing tentacles with a mouth full of needle sharp gnashers), lots of guns and explosions, and plenty of yucky bodily remains littered all over the ship, this is still one hell of a fun ride. "},{"Title":"Underrated film that deserved a sequel","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Funny how timing is everything with movies, now 10 years later this would have probably made 40 million in one weekend. I always though this was a a fun movie and as a fan of old sci-fi and Tales from the Crypt, I thought the ending was classic. Wanted a sequel, even if it was straight to DVD, oh well. I'll just make a double bill with this and Snakes on a Plane. For fans of this sort of thing, that might have missed it, I recommend checking it out. The director would go on to make millions with The Mummy films, I always wished he would have gone back to make a bigger badder sequel...one can dream.-stonecoldmark "}{"Title":"Take your brain out and enjoy","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" This is one of my favorite guilty pleasures. It succeeds on all levels. The pacing is frenetic, the action is wonderfully filmed, the characters are developed just enough, and the monster is a total trip! The character of Joey is an all-time great, just sit back and prepare to crack up at his sardonic wit. I also liken Finnegan (Williams) to Han Solo, and Hercules to the Millennium Falcon. But please, do not try in any way to apply logic to this piece, its not necessary, and will not take. The fact these monsters slurp up some 600 passengers with little resistance, and then risk their very lives to tackle another 10 or so is quite the brainteaser yes, but why tax ourselves with any of this. If you want action, thrills, laughs, and an overall fantastic atmosphere, you'll be well served here. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" There isn't really much to say about this film. No great science here. No factual based story just go and see it. Have fun, eat popcorn.Forget the problems of the real world for an hour and a half. This film proves that if you lack originality in story and content and the best characters you can get are stereotypes. You can still get entertained with an able director and talented actors (Treat Williams, Wes Studi and Famke Janssen). Admittedly you must like B-movie fluff but then it has no pretensions other than escapism. And that it does well without annoying or offending anyone. Bigger films out there do worse. They spend more on Sfx. More on whatever and fail to keep you awake. "},{"Title":"Big-budget rubbish","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" When a band of ruthless hijackers invade the world's most luxurious cruise ship, they're shocked to discover the passengers have mysteriously vanished! But that doesn't mean they are alone! Something terrifying is lurking just out of sight a deadly force from the unexplored depths of the ocean that begins to snatch the horrified intruders one by one. Good cast and an absolutely brilliant creature design is wasted in this boring, predictable action film. Everything about it has routine written all over it. You've got the heroic male lead, who can keep his cool even when a huge lovecraftian beast is inches from his face. You've got the comic-relief guy who cracks cheesy one-liners at the worst times. You've got your completely unrealistic action-packed finale. Mainstream audiences might enjoy the film, but anyone who's familiar with the genre will become bored quite quickly. Don't waste your time or brain cells.One good moment? The toilet scene.1/10. "},{"Title":"Awesome special effects!!!!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This was a awesome flick!!!!! A great monster designed by Rob Bottin. The acting was ho-hum at times, but if you can over-look that, you will love this!!! Great action, effects, and story.This is a great movie. I give it 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Titanic with tentacles","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Stephen Sommer knows how to make a dumb b-movie. His career has been full of them. His early movies were mainly family entertainment, but for his first R-rated feature he delivers a monster movie on a cruise ship that could have been spectacular, but isn't.The story has boat-for-hire Captain Treat Williams (imagine Colin Farrell's dad) drive a bunch of mercenary goons out to a rendezvous with the Argonautica luxury ship in the South China Sea. The goons plan to loot the ship and sink it, but when they hop aboard they find it abandoned with all lifeboats intact. The presence of blood and undigested skeletons doesn't alert them to the fact that a hungry sea monster has taken over.What disappoints the most about Deep Rising is that ALL of the creature and gore effects are in late-90s quality CGI. Why even hire Rob Bottin, known for his stunning effects on The Thing, RoboCop, and Total Recall, to create the monster if you're not even going to feature a single practical effects shot? The fact that Dreamquest Images and Industrial Light and Magic handled the CGI really surprises me as they are not that good, even by 1998 standards.It is made watchable by a few decent kills, a macabre attitude, an above average Jerry Goldsmith score, and the presence of the beautiful Famke Janssen (who is full of yum, yum, yum). Though the dialogue is repetitive, some of the goons are woefully miscast (especially Jason Flemyng), and almost every scene takes place in 'flooded grey room with pipes'.Deep Rising is enjoyable trash for a night of non-cerebral movie-watching and nothing more. "},{"Title":"Sommers Best Movie","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" There's very few successful directors in Hollywood today whose work I dislike more than Stephen Sommers . I disliked his two films centered around THE MUMMY and there's no way I'll be paying money to watch VAN HELSING or any other future Sommers project . As it stands DEEP RISING is the zenith of Sommers career and is probably the only film by this director that's worth going out of your way to see To give some credit to Sommers a story featuring desperate modern day pirates and other dodgy characters as protagonists should be something of a turn off and while they're not exactly contenders for a UN humanitarian award the audience do feel some empathy for these dubious people . The story itself featuring men with guns getting stalked by unseen assailiants is very old fashioned but I have to confess I've always enjoyed these sort of sci-fi horror action adventures . Sommers rightly leaves the audience in the dark as to what these monsters are and they're not revealed until quite late into the story Unfortunately when the monsters are revealed it's obvious that they were created via a CGI process . This is what I have always disliked about Sommers work - The CGI is relatively poor because it looks like computer generated animation , the monsters never look like they exist in reality , only as a special effect added in post production . But again since the monsters have been kept back until relatively late in the narrative this doesn't undermine the film unlike THE MUMMY RETURNS which is one poor CGI effect after another DEEP RISING is very much a traditional horror movie . It's not ambitious or original and shows signs of what's wrong with this director's latter work but it is very entertaining in parts . If you only ever watch one movie by Stephen Sommers this is the one I recommend "},{"Title":"It doesn't get any worse","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Getting a tooth pulled would be more pleasurable than watching this joke.  The 100 % CGI Creature looks like it came from a bad video game and doesn't blend in with the rest of the movie at ALL (especially when it's combined in scenes with human actors).    That combined with a dumb plot and shallow characters makes this a must miss.  This film and parts of the new Star Wars Episodes are excellent examples of how  CGI can ruin a picture.  Don't get me wrong - I love CGI when it's done right (Lord of the Rings series, ect. ) but there's just too many movies out there lately that have been abusing the technology and loosing credibility in the process.  Know what I mean??? "},{"Title":"Great  Entertainment !","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Ever since I saw 'The Mummy',I have become a die-hard fan of Stephen Sommers,and in this movie he once again proves himself to be a master of the genre of sci-fi action adventure.Treat Williams plays a captain of a small vessel which is hired by a gang of mercenaries to transport them to an undisclosed location.Little does Williams know that the gang intends to board a huge(an understatement,actually,this ship is gigantic !)luxury liner called the Argonautica and hold its crew to ransom.The bloodcurdling surprise comes when they reach the ship and discover that no one is alive,save the beautiful Trillian,played by Famke Janssen.Things become even more scary as they discover dozens of half-eaten bodies,and a couple of half-dead ones.However,everything gets out of control when the giant octopus,the monster responsible for devouring all the passengers and crew of the Argonautica,finally appears,unleashing hell upon the new members on board.The octopus is unquestionably the biggest I have seen in a sci-fi movie,and the special effects guys have done perhaps too good a job with the semi-alive,half eaten survivors.That actually makes this a regular horror film,and certainly not the one you'd conveniently watch over dinner .The plot will undoubtedly draw comparisons with  Anaconda.But the difference here is that we get to see a lot of the bad guys becoming octopus lunch,instead of the pitiful deaths of innocent people in ' Anaconda'.As for the cast,Treat Williams seems ill at ease playing his role,while Famke Jansen as the jewel thief Trillian couldn't be more ravishing.Kevin J.O'Connor as Williams' faithful sidekick provides the only comic relief to an otherwise humorless script,so uncharacteristic of Sommers.This is first class sci-fi fare from start to finish. "},{"Title":"No Need To Think Just Sit Back And Enjoy This Highly Entertaining Little Film!","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" No need to think just sit back and enjoy this highly entertaining film!. Yes It's dumb, but damn it entertained the hell out of me!. The characters were pretty cool and the monster effects were great, and it wasn't overloaded with CGI!. Don't bother in trying to think while watching this movie, because your likely to get a severe headache, that being said however, i had tons of fun with this movie, and found it to be highly entertaining!.The Direction is good. Stephen Sommers, does a pretty good job here, keeping the pace fast and furious, all the way, with some really neat camera work, awesome camera angles, great lighting, and overall doing a solid job!. There is LOTS of gore. We get, a gory stitching of a wound, TONS and TONS of blood Splahes, Axe in the head, a few bloody gunshot wounds, HUNDREDS and HUNDREDS of extremely gory corpses, lots of severed body parts, TONS of gooey gore, severed arm, TONS of creature gore, and more!. The Acting is a little cheesy at times, but for the most part very good. Treat Williams is awesome here,he is extremely likable, had good chemistry with Famke Janssen,was perfect for the lead and kicked that ass!. Famke Janssen, is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS!, and did very well here, she also kicks that ass, and looked damn sexy doing it!, plus her character is likable. Kevin J. O'Connor, is quite amusing here, i liked his character quite a bit, and glad he survived. Anthony Heald, is very good as the weasel, and did his part well. Wes Studi, was pretty cool, and was a bad ass!. Overall, i highly recommend this, highly enjoyable little flick! ***1/2 out of 5, "},{"Title":"Awesome Flick!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" A group of what you could call modern-day pirates come across a cruise ship way out in the middle of the sea. So they grab their weapons, intending to rob the ship, only to discover that it's infested with unknown sea creatures (and predatory ones at that). As you can probably guess, everyone is trying to figure out what the things are, how to kill them, etc. One by one, the pirates and remaining crew members of the ship are devoured, until finally three survivors remain at the end. Who survives? See the film and find out! I enjoy this movie quite a bit! Great action, excellent script, and an interesting plot. I watch Deep Rising on TV whenever given the chance. The only reason I gave this a 9 out of 10 is because there's this handsome guy who gets killed too soon (not saying which one though). Other than that, I would definitely recommend Deep Rising. "}{"Title":"Suspense, thrills and gore plus decent story.","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  A band of high seas hijackers led by (Wes Studi) hire a hard knocks sea captain (Treat Williams) to rendezvous with  a luxury liner. Purpose of the encounter is to rob the liner and destroy it. After boarding the most expensive ship afloat, it is discovered the ship has been terrorized by a giant squid like monster. The gory remains set the stage for the rest of the carnage. The human sucking monster with tentacles is pretty slimy and repulsive. If massive blood and guts thrills you, this will be a pleaser. Also in the cast are Kevin O'Connor, Trevor Goddard and the sultry Famke Janssen.  "},{"Title":"Women and Children First. You're Next!","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" The worst thing about Stephen Sommers' films is the poor CGI (and the amount of it they include). The effects in this are probably the best overall from any of his films, although certain shots are definitely still clunky. Sommers should've just written the story and let someone handle the screenplay, as it's really not all that good, filled with generic dialogue from I've got a really bad feeling about this to There's something you don't see every day. Kevin J. O'Connor is pretty funny in this, as he was in The Mummy, and the scene where he gives Wes Studi a pistol while he's being eaten by the creature is gold. Treat Williams does a pretty good job with the material he's given, as does Famke Jannsen (who also looks very lovely). The action sequences are all fun, and the film takes advantage of the cruise ship setting. "},{"Title":"A Very Entertaining Action Packed Film.","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I thought this film was good and I'm surprised some people hate it. This Film has a lot of Action and a very exciting story. The story is about a crowd of people who get attacked on a cruise ship by a giant creature. I have to say I like the look of the creature I thought it looked really cool and the effects of the creature were okay,you could see some CGI but not much. Treat Williams and his friends along with a group of soldiers decide to get on the ship because they were in an accident and their boat would not work. Obviously they were unaware that a sea creature had killed people on the ship otherwise they would not have got on. Things get interesting when the characters find out the ship is empty and when they find people dead they realise someone or something killed them and they search the ship and they find survivors who tell them what happened and they soon come face to face with the creature and have to work together to destroy it. The film was fast paced and had good action set pieces and Fun scenes with the bad guys shooting the creature with huge guns. Also the bad guys were fun to watch and sometimes they were funny,they were bad guys you love to hate. Treat Williams and Famke Janssen gave good performances and the rest of the cast were okay. Treat Williams played a cool character and I liked him a lot in this movie,I found him to be a kick ass and take names guy and he was fun to watch. The film also has a lot of fun tongue in cheek humour in it. The dialogue was Fun and the characters were fun and I liked the main three characters. You can tell that the people are never totally serious and sometimes I like that in a movie and I think it worked well in this movie. I thought Kevin J O'Conner was Funny in this film and I really liked his character. He was treated like a pushover but he proved to everyone that he was no pushover,and he defended himself,he was also a total blast to watch and made me crack up on many occasions,I especially like the scene where one of the bad guys says to him I don't like you and his response is (Like Me you don't even know Me!.) Pretty funny scene in my opinion and the look on Kevin's face was priceless.I also thought the creature was really badass and he was fun to watch,he's definitely a creature you don't want to mess with.The film also had a very exciting and intense Ending that I really enjoyed,we also get to see Treat Williams on a Jet ski which was really cool! And The film ended with a Bang. The Film is Underrated and deserves more praise because it's a really Fast Moving Fun Film and its Very Rewatchable and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made (for a B-movie)","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Okay, I'm giving 'Deep Rising' top marks. Why? You ask. Does that mean that I'm saying that Deep Rising (a film about a monster attacking a cruise liner) is as good as such cinematic greats such as 'The Godfather' and 'The Empire Strikes Back?' No, I'm not. However, Deep Rising shouldn't be viewed along films like that. It deserves its own league &#x96; possibly one filled with B-movies.And there it is truly a prince among men.Like I say... a monster attacks a cruise liner. It kills people. There's not an awful lot more I can say about the plot. It's hardly original and has been done a thousand times in a thousand different settings with only slight variations on the overall premise. The beauty of Deep Rising is that everything just &#x96; somehow &#x96; works. Yes, most of the characters are stereotypes and have little depth, let alone character development, yet they're still different from each other enough for us to root for and be just a little sad when they're finally gobbled up and reduced to bloody skeletons.Deep Rising is never dark and serious. It seems like it knows it's stupid, but the in the good kind of way. I know the monster looks a little 'CGI' after all those years, but it's still pretty impressive, even now.So, if you like your 'monster-munching' movies a little one the tongue-in-cheek side and loaded with cheese, then you should definitely like this. It's the ultimate popcorn movie where you don't need to use any brainpower to understand it. Just sit back and enjoy the ride (and don't ask why, no matter how wet Famke Janssen's top gets, it never becomes see-through). "},{"Title":"Unabashedly dumb B picture","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" A luxury cruise line gets attacked by a giant tentacle monster and that's bad news for the band of mercenaries who board the boat to rob it. The mercenaries are there to be eaten or half digested, not be developed characters, which is acceptable in this movie which never wants to be anything but stupidly entertaining. Oh boy is it stupid. This is the beginning and immediate end of any big budget picture headlined by Treat Williams, who fits into this silliness well enough as our wise cracking hero. Deep Rising is an unabashedly dumb B picture that isn't serious for a single frame of its running time and it's probably Sommer's best film. "},{"Title":"Deep Rising","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Title Deep Rising Condensed Storyline A group of mercenaries hire a boat to ride out into the ocean so they can hijack and rob a cruise liner filled will millions, but they soon learn that they were beaten to the ship by a monster that has eaten all of the passengers and crew and is now haunting them. Notable Acting I will just say that Kevin J. O'Connor has to be one of my favourite actors when he plays that quirky coward character. Mainly because he plays the role so well and he plays off Treat Williams' character perfect, in a buddy criminal type sense. It is really fun to watch. We Studi plays the head mercenary and he looks like he really enjoyed his role as he is really going all out with it. The rest of his team however feel like they are just standard goons with no noticeable acting traits Noticeable Camera work Jut before the titles role on, we get what seems to be a POV shot from the prospective of the monster which is good, follow by a birds eye shot of the boat straight after the titles. The framing of shots is nicely done, this is something that I find a lot of movies doing, such as looking at the crew from behind as they walk through the door and the next shot as them walking towards the camera out of the door. Good framing comes from movies which aren't all that creative with their angles, but know it, so they make up for it with good framing.Graphics The monster isn't all too real, but it is great for 90's standards of movie monster. That is pretty much all I can say on the matter of that. Incorrect Science If all of the other computers were infected by the virus and taken down, I have a feeling the radar wouldn't be left working. The monster of the movie is an off shoot of a priapulid (Penis shaped worm) called Ottoia, this species went extinct 550 million years ago in the mid Cambrian era. They would only grow to 10 maximum, nowhere near the size of one shown in the movie. It is said they grew to obtuse sizes in the deep sea trenches. This is also wrong, mainly for the fact they were were native to shallow reef areas, because this is where they would hide in the sand in wait of their prey. But they did the method of feeding correct, eat prey and digest it before spitting out the indigestible features such as bones or shells. The elevator fall is too long and would have them falling thousands of feet if it was long. There is a scene at the end where John is looking under the hood of the jetski at the engine, but most jetski models have the engine under the seat. Overall Feel This movie was made by Stephen Sommers and was a year before he would go and direct the 'Mummy' franchise, which also has Kevin J. O'Connor in the first movie as well, playing an almost identical role to this one. This is one of those horror creature feature movies, which is a perfect blend of horror and action, but also has that element of cheesy horror in it as well. To poke fun at the fact that it doesn't take itself all too seriously. If you love creature feature movies, you'll love this one, and to make things better, it has a good production value and a good director behind it, followed by decent camera work and story. What more could you ask from a high B-list monster movie. "},{"Title":"Another sci-fi rip-off of the classic terror saga!","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Let's face it, Alien and Aliens has no equals... Never have and never will. This film is a messy, sad attempt by a filmmaker who belongs in the same group as Michael Bay. I'm not to waste any readers time by going into plot-points. The only thing I can say is that your time will be much better spent watching the aforementioned films. Those two are like the world karate champions...the alpha and the omega. Many a director has tried, but none have succeeded. But, I digress... Other than the cast, this is a movie that should have gone straight-to-video(or cable). The director, Stephen Sommers, is really just a poor man's John Carpenter. If you look at Mr. Sommers' resume, all he has done is monster-flicks. His best film was 1999's The Mummy. A big part of the film's failure is its heavy use of CGI. That, and the silly script. So, if you want something to watch on a Saturday afternoon when you're bored, pop this film in and have fun! "},{"Title":"Pirates versus sea monsters and ample fun between them","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Before Stephen Sommers sank his teeth in remaking The Mummy (and soon after milking it dry with various unwarranted sequels and spin-offs) and before going totally overboard with the remaining classic Universal Horror monsters with the lackluster Van Helsing, he had already shown his affinity for monsters with this delightful big budget B-movie. Assembling a diverse cast, including several notable character actors that would later be seen in more ambitious fare, Sommers brings us an excellent action chiller set on a luxury ocean liner on her maiden voyage that has the misfortune of being boarded by a band of ruthless brigands. Their trouble is something even more insidious beat them to their target and swiftly proceeds to move against them as well.Treat Williams (a veteran of all kinds of TV and movie work, just not of the memorable kind) stars as smuggler captain Finnegan, who has taken on the thankless job of transporting a group of dangerous testosterone dominated mercenaries (think Aliens, except these are bad guys) to the Argonautica, a gargantuan cruise ship and playground for the rich and wealthy, that has just embarked on her first trip across the South China Sea. Offloading the volatile, loudmouth band of privateers &#x96; among them Djimon Hounsou (Gladiator, Blood Diamond), Wes Studi (Avatar, Hell on Wheels) and Jason Flemyng (Stardust, X-Men First Class) &#x96; should be all in a day's work, but unfortunately all their plans are shot to hell when it turns out something far more sinister and deadly already boarded the boat and ate most of the passengers and crew. Stumbling upon a few survivors, including sexy con woman Trillian (Famke Janssen), the gang must soon alter their intentions as they are faced with ghastly sea monsters that mean to slither their grotesque tentacles all around their bodies to suck 'em dry. At least the revelation that the mercs planned on torpedoing the ship after they got away with the money allows them some firepower to retaliate and save their skin, provided someone is left alive to blow the boat sky-high. It's soon a matter of 'no honor among thieves' as it turns out nobody here can be trusted, not even in the face of getting devoured by slimy sea serpents, of sorts. Amidst pirates and sleazy cruise ship managers it's hard to step up as the voice of reason, but Finnegan attempts to do so anyway and at least succeeds in convincing Trillian to bail out while they still can, also making for some semi-romantic tête-a-tête between them that thankfully never gets in the way of the real fun but actually gives them both the necessary rogue-ish character. Unfortunately, Finnegan's contractors won't let them walk away and are set to complete their mission, even all through the maritime monster infestation that threatens to kill them all. Working their way through the vessel, Deep Rising's plot soon develops along the old fashioned 'ten little Indians' line, but the pleasure to be had proves none the less of it.Unlike most of Sommers' monster movies soon to follow, Deep Rising feels like an actual entry into the horror genre, instead of catering to the 'PG-13 happy' crowd of Hollywood execs who want to make their films as accessible to most demographics as they can, which led to all his subsequent movies merely playing with horror conventions but instead devolving into typical FX driven blockbuster spectacle. Nevertheless, Sommers' willingness to throw in CGI where the budget allows him can already be felt in this film as the creatures often look overly digital (not surprising, considering digital effects were still largely new territory around this time) and particularly towards the climax end up being overused, but still the movie contains its fair share of suspenseful and gory moments. If you ever wondered what a half-digested human being looks like, here's an answer for you and it is kinda disturbing to behold. Despite the uneasy reliance on digital FX to allow the monsters to do their horrific killing, in terms of sheer fast paced action interspersed with moments of aptly timed comedy delivered by a cast that seems to thoroughly enjoy itself, Deep Rising proves to be about as entertaining as they come without feeling the need to be more than just solid popcorn enjoyment. There's a reason the film's finale comes with an hilarious open ended note &#x96; without the usual sequel pretensions &#x96; that underscores that everything that came before should not have been taken at all seriously, in case that was not perfectly clear from the onset of the film. In the annals of 'delightful movie pairings', Deep Rising's 'modern pirates versus sea monsters' deserves to be worthy of some credit.Ultimately this effective horror extravaganza failed to attract an audience and became a typical box office bomb. Rather undeservedly so in my mind, as I consider this a vastly underrated, hugely entertaining action/horror flick. If you like dynamic action on the high oceans and you don't mind a bit of sea monsters slaughtering humans throughout, this is about as good as it gets. And if out of that sentence only the 'action' part appeals to you, Deep Rising definitely doesn't sink in its efforts. "},{"Title":"terrorists vs monster","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" a man who's tag line for business is , if the cash is there we don't care.. gotta love that,, but it ends up biting him in the butt , when terrorists take over his boat,, and force him to take them to a deserted cruise ship out in the South China Sea,, while there the terrorists,, and our crew of good guys,, eventually do meet up with a strange underwater creature,, some mutant,, I don't know what to call it,, i'ts not an Octupus,, anyways, this creature kicks butt,, kills everything in it's path.. Meanwhile we later find out that things weren't quite as they seemed, between the captain and his crew,, the terrorists had help getting to the ship ,, but who,, Treat Williams does a great job in this,, and Fammke Jannsen is always great to look at. "},{"Title":"A silly, gleeful and vastly under-recognized adventure-horror flick, Deep Rising is pure, cheesy, B-Movie fun!","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I love Stephen Sommers' films. From his fun take on The Jungle Book, to the uber-popular Mummy series... and even his more recent work like Van Helsing and G.I. Joe The Rise of Cobra... I just find such a great charm and an indescribable fun to his films. Yes, I know his work often is the subject of ridicule among professional critics, and I know his films are often met with a decidedly mixed reception from the online movie-going crowd (particularly here in good old IMDb), but I personally adore his work. Something about his imagery and quirky, cliché-ridden, action-packed and gloriously B-movie writing style just speaks to me. A Stephen Sommers film just hearkens back to that inner child inside of my heart. Re-visiting a Sommers film is like being 5-years-old again for me.And this film, one of his earlier efforts, is a good example of just what I love about Sommers' work. Yes, I am talking about his 1998 light-hearted adventure-horror creature-feature Deep Rising. A good old-fashioned, quirky, fun B-movie of a flick.We follow John Finnegan (Treat Williams), a boat captain who, along with his crew, have been hired to transport a group of mercenaries to an undisclosed location in the middle of the ocean. Upon reaching their destination, Finnegan (along with crewman Joey, portrayed by Kevin J. O'Connor) discovers that the mercenaries have brought them to an enormous cruise-ship called the Argonautica, which they plan to rob and then destroy. However, upon entering, the mercenaries (who have forced Finnegan and Joey to accompany them) realize the ship is deserted- having been overrun by vile deep-sea creatures that they must now fight to survive. Along the way, they meet up with several surviving crew- members, including a beautiful con-artist/thief named Trillian (Famke Janssen), the Argonautica's corrupt designer Simon Canton (Anthony Heald) and it's former captain, Atherton. (Derrick O'Connor)The cast is an absolute blast. Williams is perfect as our lead- a reluctant hero who is has the right amount of charm and one-liners to make him genuinely appealing. Kevin J. O'Connor is a blast as Joey, giving a lot of great comedic beats. Janssen is gorgeous and fun in her role. Heald is creepy and will keep you guessing. Una Damon in a small role as Joey's girlfriend Leila does an admirable job. And supporting characters by the likes of Derrick O'Connor as the captain and Wes Studi, Djimon Hounsou, Clifton Powell and Trevor Goddard as the mercenaries are a lot of fun.The production is also a lot of fun. Sommers direction is as always concise, stylish and fun in a very cool visual way. His script is also a blast, finding just the right tone and balance of action, horror and comedy to make it work as a zany B-movie. The costume design is nice, though simple. The creature design is fun. The score by Jerry Goldsmith is also very nice and compliments the imagery well. (Although generic at times) And the visual effects are great for a 90's release. (Is it just me, or is 90's CGI fun to look at in retrospect?)The one big standout for me, though, is the production design, which I loved. Particularly in sequences taking place on Finnegan's boat. They nailed it, and you'll wish you could live on it with Finnegan and Joey. The Argonautica is also expertly designed, and feels like a real cruise- ship, while also having enough creative wiggle-room to provide us massive corridors and eerie industrial-like settings for some of the more serious chase sequences. Wonderful production design job.This is just one of those movies that is pure fun, fun, FUN! Sure, it's dopey and cliché (which is why I can't give it a 10), but sometimes dopey and cliché can work and be worthwhile.If you are a fan of adventure. Or silly horror flicks. Or just having fun with a good movie, I would highly recommend Deep Rising. It's an absolute blast of pure, silly fun that never takes itself too seriously.I give it a very strong 8 out of 10. Check it out! "}{"Title":"Wild Horror/Adventure Yarn","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Stephen Sommers directed this wild horror/adventure yarn that stars Treat Williams as John Finnegan, who leads a team of mercenaries onto a cruise ship filled with wealthy passengers in order to rob them, only to find the ship mostly deserted, and the few survivors(like thief Trillian, played by Famke Janssen) tell a horror story of merciless undersea monsters on the rampage. Turns out to be true, as Finnegan must lead an ever-dwindling number of humans off the ship, and onto dry land... Peculiar film gives viewer no one to root for, and is entirely obvious and clichéd, but is presented with such energy and enthusiasm, with surprisingly good performances and F/X, that it's a tempting guilty pleasure. Just misses with me, but does still have a refreshingly self-aware sense of humor. A real mixed-bag. "},{"Title":"Boats and Monsters","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Before Stephen Sommers ended up making effects heavy and not always bang on funny Mummy adventures he unleashed this giant squid wielding B action/comedy-ad venture with a slash of horror thrown in.The biggest ocean liner is launched filled with the rich and famous, casinos and high rollers for some indigestible reason attract the attention of pirates, the non Somali kind.However the pirates are not the only one with an interest in the passengers and crew alike and a giant monster seems to be lurking the decks and it may be more than a match to titanic sinking ice berg.Treat Williams gives a note perfect performance as the lead hero, especially as in the past he tends to be too much of a heavy presence even in lighter roles requiring finesseThe special effects are slightly below top notch for the time but its fine, the cast is very good from Wes Studi to Anthony Heald, even Kevin J O'Connor is more bearable than he is in the Mummy films.The film bombed in the box office but it deserves an audience when it pops up on TV. "},{"Title":"one for a rainy afternoon","Date":"25 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Just before the director, Stephen Sommers, made the Mummy franchise he tried to give us a creature feature. It shows that it was a low budget flick. If you see what Stephen did after The Mummy franchise, making a horror called Van Helsing that was a big flop then you know what you are getting. Action and action and a lot of CGI.CGI was the next big thing but was still in his early stage and it shows here when we see the monster. Remember The Faculty from the same year also with Famke Janssen it failed also due the CGI.Still, this flick tries to be two flicks for the price of one. A bit like From Dusk Till Dawn (1996). It starts with some hijackers who are out to catch a cruise ship. That takes almost 20 minutes into the flick before we see the CGI cruise ship were some kind of creature hijacks it before they come on board. There's enough of red stuff flying around and skulls to crush on the floor but once the creature comes in view it becomes a bit laughable. In fact, all characters are clichés. By doing so it becomes funny sometimes and entertaining but still it isn't Alien (1979). Also a low budget but did give you the creeps.Be honest, the whole story once on board of the cruise ship do reminds you of Alien, Trillian St. James (Famke Janssen) being the hero also walking around in her undershirt like Ripley did. I enjoyed it, especially the jet ski, but it surely isn't a classic. One to see on a rainy afternoon. Gore 1/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 2/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"wow...","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" highest, universal, everlasting accomplishment in unbearably stupid dialog...the conversations between my cat and the rumbling dishwasher are an amazing intellectual, realistic and interesting piece of high literature compared to what some of the annoying characters in this movie abuse the English language for...fun fact this movie would actually be sort of above average, if it weren't for all those made-up punch lines, created for 14 year all boys that aren't allowed to watch the movie... It's not realistic, it's not smart and i wouldn't care at all, neither be expecting any of that... but those misguided attempts of being funny, cool or even romantic were just way too much... "},{"Title":"The first half of the movie is a pretty tight little caper thriller...","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" ...but things get out of hand in the second half due to an impossible set of coincidences. Treat Williams and his band of hi- tech raiders board a luxury yacht and dump a virus into its operating system to bypass the vault control. So far so good. Except the ship is infested with unbelievably huge and lethal sea creatures and by knocking out the ship's security protocols the raiders just let them loose all over the ship. Oops. If this all seems like an overly contrived way to flip the movie into a salty creature feature, it is. The plot contrivances by that point kill one's suspension of disbelief - there is just too much to disbelieve. What's more the second half of the movie is one long generic run-away- from-the-monster chase sequence already familiar from the Aliens series, not to mention Deep Blue Sea, Leviathan, Deep Star Six and every other watery creature feature of the last thirty years. I found myself bored during what should have been the biggest action payoff of the movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and enjoyable without too many flaws","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Hired to take out a luxury liner, a team of commandos team up with the survivors of a vicious sea-creature attack on the ship and race to get off before they're all consumed.An admittedly-impressive film, this one has a lot going for it. One of the main features is the impressive mystery built up for the creature, which has some rather good parts to it. From the inability to reveal the creature at all early in the film to an impressive set-up sequence that gives the full extent of their history, this is handled well and makes their unusual appearance all the more satisfying due to the uniqueness they exhibit. Also impressive is the mixture of action and suspense, as beyond the creature's history, it manages to contain a number of extraordinary action set-ups that are just a blast overall and make for some good fun. The shots of them taking over the main control room, the stalking in the basement corridors and the speedboat chase through the flooded hallways come to mind as impressive, and of course the finale with its huge fireball explosion caps it all off nicely. The suspense is well done and gets a little chilling at times, and the gore scenes are incredible with bodies shown eaten through, scarred beyond recognition and the big one, a hallway filled with entrails, guts and splattered limbs lining the way, giving this one enough gore for the gore-hounds. It does have some problems with the comedy, since some might find a lot of fault with the cheesiness of them as well as their utterance at all, and the real creature's appearance towards the end tends to negate what had come before and seems there merely as a twist reversal rather than anything else, but overall it's not as damaging as it could've been and leaves this one a real blast.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language "},{"Title":"Awesome movie, leaves you highly entertained and hoping for a sequel","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I have read some of the other reviews, but I think this movie is awesome! It is highly entertaining and provides twists that you didn't think possible. The elevator music and voice (the doors.. are closing..) are hilarious! Anyway the creativity with the comedy within this horror movie really make up for the simple plot. You will enjoy this movie when you watch it.The CGI with the huge creature from deep within the ocean is well done. You won't be disappointed with gore in this movie either.So in summary, it is a terrific movie with a great combination of horror, suspense and comedy with a great set of actors to boot. "},{"Title":"Treat yourself","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" A powerboat crew led by a former soldier (Williams) who do business under the slogan no questions lead a heavily armed team of thieves to a floating casino to affect an elaborate insurance fraud, only to find the ocean liner apparently abandoned and stained in rivers of blood. The gruesome discovery is the work of a subterranean creature that literally sucks the blood from its victims, as explained to the audience by the cruise-ship's unscrupulous owner, Heald. This beggars belief when you see the amount of blood left 'unsucked' that has cast members slip-sliding in their fatigues. Nevertheless, these worm-like parasites have infested the entire ship and it's up to the affable and easy-going Williams to lead the reluctant team to safety, in a Gene Hackman-esque Poseidon Adventure manner.The glamorous Janssen proves to be an independent companion, while Williams and head terrorist/commando Wes Studi share a mutual respect for one another, as they battle the egos and fatally poor judgement of their subordinates. Heald is introduced as a morally corrupt, pathetic puppet head of a consortium, complicit in the perhaps unlawful incarceration of Janssen's con-artist character in the ships larder after she's caught pick-pocketing. It's not until the film's climax that his character's truly sadistic sleaze-bag qualities are revealed. His heavy-handed treatment of Janssen's rosebud delicate-slender frame is enough to make you want to leap into the box and knock seven shades of it out of his smarmy, bespectacled smugness.Special make-up effects are quite gruesome, a tone announced very early and driven throughout with expectant indulgence by the filmmakers &#x96; fortunately, it's not (almost) over-cooked to the point of becoming parody. Stages and set design are well constructed, and film's pace is constant and targeted &#x96; there's very little peripheral noise to distract you from the point, which is a welcome relief. Likable characters, solid momentum, well-timed shocks and competently handled basics mean Deep Rising scores strongly, an energetic, thrill-filled roller coaster with appeal and no pretensions. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Surprisingly good special effects, casting, and plot makes this movie worth watching.A creature from the depth of ocean comes to reap havoc on an ocean liner's maiden voyage. There are mercenaries who were hired by the owner of the ocean liner to sink it to collect insurance. The two collide and mayhem ensues, with unlikely protagonists fending for their lives, and battling the creature.The casting is good and the actors all carry the excitement of the movie - combined with great special effects that are very believable makes this a gem of a movie, out doing many movies with bigger budgets. There're bit of humor, terror, mystery, and action which makes this movie very entertaining.Too bad that the movie didn't fair too well at the box office, but it will remain a classic in the annals of sci-fi movies. "},{"Title":"Citizen Kane it ain't, but pure entertainment none the less!","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I finally found a widescreen DVD version of this recently and re-watched it. It's still one of the best examples I have seen of pure, unpretentious cheesy entertainment. It's not great art, by any means, but it's fun.I did some reading online and found that, on its release, Deep Rising was universally trashed by the critics, and Roger Ebert lists it as one of the worst films ever made. Seriously? Did we all watch the same movie? Sure, it's big and dumb and loud and flashy and completely unbelievable, but lots of films are all of those things but still manage to find an audience and a modicum of critical recognition. Sommers's later films have managed to succeed despite being, in my opinion, inferior films (especially the truly awful Mummy Returns and Van Helsing).It has so much going for it. The core cast are just fantastic - Williams is charismatic and tough, Janssen is gorgeous but smart, O'Connor has some of the funniest and most quotable lines, Studi has a great air of danger about him - and most of the support players are decent, if not outstanding. The script isn't deep or complex, but it's very tightly written and full of great one-liners and exchanges.The effects hold up fairly well, apart from a few crappy ragdolls and some dodgy composites. The basic monster design it really quite cool, especially the creepy way in which the closed tentacles move.The level of vitriol directed at this movie just baffles me. Honestly, why all the hate from the mainstream critics? Deep Rising is a big dumb action movie, but I think it's about as good as that genre gets.8 out of 10 from me. "}{"Title":"Outrageous hokey fun.","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" A gang of modern day pirates board a luxurious ocean liner intent on looting it of everything. But once on board the liner appears to be deserted, all traces of human life has vanished. It would seem some strange sea creatures have run amok and the pirates themselves are next on the menu!Deep Rising doesn't have any delusions about what it wants to be, it was marketed as a raging B movie man versus beast gun fest, and that is exactly what it is, with tongue firmly in its cheek. When the tag line reads Full Scream Ahead then you get the impression it's not a film to be remotely taken seriously. Written and directed by Stephen Sommers (The Mummy), Deep Rising is a blend of Alien, Poseidon Adventure and Under Siege, all built around the Ten Little Indians structure. Blood spurts and quips are dealt, and the film isn't found wanting in the good old it's behind you department. The cast give it the full gusto histrionics, Treat Williams, the sumptuous Famke Jansen (holding her own surrounded by hundreds of pounds of testosterone), Anthony Heald, Kevin J O'Connor, Wes Studi, Djimon Hounsou and, erm, Jason Flemyng star.It's a mini riot out at sea, great great fun. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Flat out fun!","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" this movie is cheesy and over the top, but knows it, and doesn't apologize! it is a ride full of laughs and gross stuff, it is hardly believable and highly cliché'd but the characters are fun, the pace is fast, and the action is fierce.A captain and this two man (and woman) crew, rent their boat for hire to a bunch of hard-ass soldier-like thieves, they unknowingly take them to a ravaged cruise ship on its maiden voyage in the middle of a dark and story ocean, they encounter tons of dead bodies, large bloodthirsty worm-like sea monsters with wicked jaws and fangs. The captain (treat Williams) is real fun and pleasant to watch in this movie he takes charge and heroically saves the day.See this simply fun flick on a Saturday afternoon for a fun, rollicking ride that delivers monsters, guns, explosions, and some b-rated acting. I really had a lot of fun with this simple movie, but simple isn't always bad! "},{"Title":"Rather good adventure/horror movie that takes place on a boat.","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I enjoyed this film about a cruise ship that runs into a rather unusual problem in the middle of the ocean. What is the problem? Well it is not really the strange assortment of people heading to said cruise ship to rob it. We have two guys and a gal who own this strange super fast little ship, they take any job as long as there is money to be made. The amusing threesome would also seem to make a cute little sitcom entitled Two guys, a gal and a boat. They are transporting these men who are planning to rob the ship which really makes the guy who owns the boat rethink his no questions asked policy. On the ship another thief is found in the former Bond bad girl Famke Jannsen, she is caught and locked up which actually turns out to work really good for her as soon after something seems to hit the ship and make it stop. Soon thereafter the people in the super little boat arrive to find that the ship they set out to get to is now almost completely deserted, the ones left providing very little information as to what happened. That is okay though as people start disappearing and our heroes and villains alike will find out the deadly killer of the ship is more than any of them could have imagined. Good movie, very fast paced and lots of action and a bit of horror too. It also has quite a bit of humor too which works well as the cast is actually pretty good. This movie would actually open up during Titanic's super run of consecutive weeks as box office champ and would be just a minor blip on the radar. Shame, I found this movie to be really good considering it is not pure horror, a comic book movie, or a sequel as these days those are the only movies that seem to do anything. "},{"Title":"Gory monster movie, dated VFX but watchable","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" This was a film that I initially enjoyed. However, it doesn't work as well on repeat viewings. The plot holes are apparent and the Special Effects, though effective already look dated. It works as a grisly over-the-top monster movie but nothing more. Most of the film has a huge unseen creature viciously killing members of a cruise liner. To complicate matters further, there's a hijacking in progress. Treat Williams is adequate but always plays second fiddle to the Special Effects. Many of the deaths are gory, so beware. The ending is a letdown. Watchable with appropriate expectations.Overall 5/10 "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable B-link non-B monster movie!","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" On seeing this one again, I had some vague memories of seeing a miserably bad movie, but this isn't it (I probably mentally confused with 'Speed 2'; also, the female eye candy in this flick is better than Sandra Bullock).The plot of this is same-old-same-old yuck-yuck monster movie (think SOS Poseidon + Leviathan + Aliens and mix in some humor), but scenery, acting and execution is good enough to make it quite entertaining, and the corniness of the plot actually turns to a plus for entertainment value.I'd definitely recommend it, also because it has Australians in it ) "},{"Title":"Now What?","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" This exemplifies the marketing catch-phrase action comedy. Like movies like Demolition Man, True Lies, and the Lethal Weapon series, Deep Rising blends lots of gun play, explosions and even a big creepy monster with hokey one-liners and clever caricatures.A fly-by-night-for-hire sea merchant (Treat Williams) and crew drives his boat full of mercenary clients and dangerous cargo on stormy South China Seas and happens upon the world's largest luxury liner. When they board they find a bloody mess and must contend with the horror on board.This is a true roller-coaster ride of fun. The entire cast seems to be having a good time. Treat Williams and especially, Kevin J.O'Conner, as his first mate and mechanic, add a comedic touch that offsets the B-movie plot. Anthony Heald, as the owner of the cruise ship, is his typical neurotic self and is always a hoot. The sexy Famke Jansen need I say more!! The cast of mercenaries led by Wes Studi, adds lethal Three Stooges humor. The special effects are slightly cartoonish but very well-done and effective.This movie steals from better horror movies without apology but its all in fun. Deep Rising moves fast and seems to throw in the kitchen sink in order to make its point. But it never takes itself too seriously. It leans more toward the humorous. I think they may have been leaning toward a sequel or series with Williams' constant catch-phrase of now what!! with every new plot turn. Instead we have to be satisfied with Williams' The Substitute series. uugghhh! "},{"Title":"Funny,scary and good entertainment value!","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Hilarious and scary out to sea  adventure with giant sea monster, easy and fun to watch! Doesn't take too much brain capacity, perfect for a Sunday in bed or after work with your friends while having some drinks! Can't remember to much about the main characters except that most of them where criminals, they set out to rob a ship and when they got on board they strangely enough found it deserted. Animations are of high quality, and acting is decent, at least enough to impress me! You don't get to directly see the monster in the beginning of the film which make it more scary and gives it a good build up. I can definitely recommend this film if you like cheesy adventure and it actually got a good ending to! "},{"Title":"Pirates, smugalers, Beautiful women, Sea Monster What's not to like??","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Pirates, Smugalers , Luxury liner, Beautiful Women, What's not to like?? I just watched this movie on DVD and didn't have very high expectations for it but, I ended up really enjoying the film. The heros were cool Una Damon and Famke Jannson were steaming hot. It would never win any academy awards but it was a good story in the ilk of the Tremmors series. I'm really desinstised to most horror flicks these days but I jumped a couple of times at this one. I really wish they would release a special Edition DVD with Audio commentary & making of featurret. I also think more passengers should have survived, like in the Posiden adventure. "},{"Title":"Perfect amount of self-parody","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This isn't a comprehensive view of DR (7 out of 10) but I'd like to comment on one aspect of this very entertaining film.Some films take themselves too seriously.  As if they were saying, Film is the most important expression of art.  And this film is very, very important.Others are too tongue-in-cheek.  As if they were embarrassed of themselves and don't want to be mistaken for actually trying to be good. I thought DR had a really good balance.  They had fun with the genre without making fun of the genre.  Got it?I appreciated it.  I had some good laughs, some good scares, and a great time.  Thanks, guys! "},{"Title":"Exsquidset","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I just finished watching the movie and I was impressed. The creature was something spactacular. I loved the movie because of it surprises. Especially when a tentacle popped up at the characters and swollwed them whole. One thing that kills me about it was the ending. In my opinion they should make a sequel.I could think of a few good plot ideas. But anyway the ending should have well ended different. For those who havent seen it. Well i won't spoil. But watch it it is cool. "}{"Title":"It's a great movie","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I calculate a 8.5/10 ..............4 this movie ok?because is 1 of my favorites,I bought it in VHS, and because is great, is very interesting see how the movie continues with many questions without answers, like where are all the passengers?why the blood is everywhere, and why those strange noises?well I totally recommend this movie for all those who want to have a good time "},{"Title":"A Film That is Way Underrated","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a spin back to when good writing was optional, and good special effect were the only thing that truely mattered. Wait a minute,... it's still like that. Anyway this movie is a fun Adventure/Horror/Action that delivers everything it promises. Great special effects, and good actors. Only the script doesn't really help the actors act any better but this movie goes along at a pretty fast pace. It's kinda slow in the beginning but it catches up quick. The Climax to the movie is absolutely jaw-dropping. If you just want to see a big bang watch this movie. This movie is Fun, Kinda Scary, Cool, and has one huge sea creature with a stick up his you-know-where. See this movie, it's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Don't let this one slip by you!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Although this movie did not make much money, it has turned into one of my favorites.  Just like Alien, the characters are very interesting and the feeling of impending doom as the crew walk the seemingly empty vessel is wonderful.  I especially love Treat Williams and feel badly that this movie never had a sequel...it should have!  You will fall in love with these characters too. "},{"Title":"Consistently under-rated voyage into raw terror.","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Mercenaries plan to disable a luxury-liner's ability to radio for help so that they can board it and plunder it. The first part of the plan goes great, but something reached the ship before they did. What follows next is a cross between Poseidon Adventure and the worst nightmare you could ever have. Watch this one late at night. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A wild ride","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising was certainly a surprising low budget sci-fi, a wild ride, action all the way, a good effort by  director Sommers on a small budget. It may not be the thing for hardened cinema goers, but this is ideal for tape/dvd good in home entertainment.  If you want to pass 90 minutes in an entertaining fun way I recommend this B Movie, it is grrrrrreat "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  And nothing more than just that...This movie (as already mentioned) WASN'T about trying to be the next *thing* it was more concerned with letting you waste around 1 1/2hrs of your life, nothing orginal and nothing mindblowingly fantastic (tho i thought the creatures were kewl!)I liked this movie because it had no pretensions, i didn't like the ending tho, after all that and then, THAT?! What a bloody dissapointment!I liked the acting in this movie as far as you go, it wasn't nothing to make me sit up and pay attention, but it was something that i liked because they knew what they were doing and also they could do a passable act at being scared (not so easy when you see movies like the mummy!) I didn't like the sterotyping in it however, and also at times i just thought WILL YOU JUST DIE ALREADY?!?!? But it was something that i had a good laff over!The storyline was fun, and the graphics (to an extent) were REALLY good! I'm just glad that i can't afford to go on one of these liners! LOL Its good and fun, i liked the bit when the guy fell out of the creatures stomach (sorry for spoiling that bit!) but it was KEWL! Not to mention slightly sickening!I would give this movie a 7 becoz it wasn't nothing special, but it was something that i can watch more than twice without the urge to go out and do something stupid with it, like throw it thru a window! I liked it and i would recommend it to those who just a nite in with a good horror, nothing major, just good, wholesome,(?) fun!!!Give it a twirl if you like B movies, but don't have THAT high expectations, i believe that you WILL be dissapointed if you think this is the end all of movies. "},{"Title":"Go in expecting little - then be pleasantly surprised","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  If you're looking for something kinda fun, not too serious and with a bit of action/adventure/thills then this just could be the film for you. Don't expect it to be quality or classy - it just isn't. But it is fun and entertaining. Now Famke is, in my humble opinion, one of the best in the business at what she does - namely look good and get the job done without pretensions at being mega-star. Treat, on the other hand, was not my idea of a leading man in such an adventure tale. This is highlighted no better then in the final scenes on the beach (I agree that Joey shouldn't have shown up) where Famke is looking lovely but slightly bedraggled as befits someone whose just been through what they have - but Treat looks like he's just stepped out of the make-up caravan! I think its really worth a watch for a no-brainer relaxing evening on the couch. My vote 6/10 "},{"Title":"Pure Pleasure!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is truly one of the best movies ever made. It's got smugglers, Famke, and everything else you'd want in a movie where giant sea creature attacks a carnival cruise ship. If only other movies could follow this formula! "},{"Title":"The predator of the high seas","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I like many people whent and rented this movie based on the general assumtion that I was going to be entertained for about an hour and a hlaf, boy was I entertained.  I was suprised at how similar in story and plot development it was to predator (1987).  Both movies have the unwitting band of gun toating goombas, walking into an unfortunate incident which leaves the group straped for both ammo and group members.  And when the villan is finally confronted he is shown more hosstility than good grace. I enjoyed this film, alot.  Mainly becuse it didnt take itself to seriously.  It didnt try to over explain the creatures, it didnt try to build to many relationships between the charecters, mainly becuse we all knew at the begining that the majority of them were going to die anyway. It didnt even really show that much simpathy to anyone involved, and I like the fact that there were so many charecters that I found it hard to tell who was going to die next, something that I found extreamly easy to do in Deep Blue Sea (1999). To sum up, this movie is for people who are into having a good time and enjoying the roller coaster ride.  If you are one of those people who need to know why the creatures are doing this or where they come from, go see something like spher (1998). "},{"Title":"Army of Darkness on a boat that is halfway sinking,...","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is a really really awful film. The gore is cheap and pathetic. The acting is , ugh. Also the storyline which is just retarded. Basicly abunch of theives take board of a cruise ship with some of the most richest people in the world. In which then the ship is attacked and just about everyone dies except the theives and a few passangers. Then they are all hunted down slowly by this creature squid thing. I would say the movie goes down hill from there but it went down hill after the opening credits.The gore as i've said before is really pathetic as it tries to shock you in certain scenes like the room filled with corpses attacked by the squid thing.Another bad thing about this film besides the film itself is its awful acting as well as choice of actors. From the Bruce Campbell-Shotgun towing wanna be Treat Williams (yuck) and the most digusting actor of all Kevin J. O'Connor which is a surprise how either of these people could survive in this train er shipwreck. None of the cast seemed scared or even moved by whats around them yet thrilled and enjoyed to have it all happend.Also I forget one of the worst things of all which has little to do with this movie yet it is a very very big flaw. The front box art and trailer give away the ending. It shows the ship which the plot surronds exploding and the two survivors taking off and escaping the blast. Overall this is an awful film, not shocking nor funny yet boring and overdone. If you want real action/comedy rent Army of Darkness or hell even Die Hard. Forget this unless you want a cheap thrill (if even that) and a knowingly bad movie. "}{"Title":"Speed 2 meets Leviathan! This is the best bad movie that I have seen in a long time. The characters are blissfully predictable and the action over the top. What more can somebody want?","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is one of those action movies which are enjoyable to watch because it doesn't require much thought. Regardless of how phony the character development is and the total lack of nudity, the movie kept my attention through its entirety because it took two previous movies which were obscene and mediocre and made them into a more enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie was a lot better than I've thought. I've watched this movie with the knowledge that it was killed by the press, but what pleasant surprise, I've liked this movie a lot. With a good action and a good monster. The best thing I've liked about this movie was all those rumbling between the actors in this movie and a good dose of irony. It was good fun. "},{"Title":"Doing it right","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie is action not sci-fi as some people think. It has some great one liners but fails to keep the action flowing at a steady rate.Rating= 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"one wild ride!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  DEEP RISING definitely isn't the greatest action movie ever made, but it sure is fun. It's got an appealing hero in Treat Williams and a feisty female counterpart in the beautiful Famke Janssen. Kevin J. O'Connor supplies the comic relief while never getting on your nerves, and the film constantly keeps you guessing as to whether or not he will survive. The film has a nice Hawksian feel to it, with the scenario of a variety of different characters trapped in a dangerous situation and their snappy dialogue. The ending has sequel written all over it, but due to the film's performance, I doubt we'll ever see one. The effects are bloody but well-done, but your tolerance for them depends on how much you can handle seeing half-decayed, still-live corpses regurgitated by the lethal sea creature. If you can take it in a light-hearted, thrill ride-type way, you should be able to enjoy the film. Only complaint why do movies always destroy the cool vehicles (in this case Williams's awesome PT boat)? "},{"Title":"fun-flick action movie","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is a 'popcorn' kind of movie. The story itself is simple,(well... a bit stupid, but then, so is other alien-creature movies) but somehow, the dialogues make it enjoyable. I especially like the character played by Kevin J O'Connor. He's full of wise cracks and his lines are always tinted with humor. Fully recommended for people who enjoy 'alien' movies plus a great dialogue. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Mindless","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Not as deep in human characters or high level suspense like Aliens(1986), Deep Rising(1998) is still a fun fun to watch will some very good special effects.  Much better then Virus(1999) or Supernova(2000).  The action is fast paced and the creatures are well designed by the special effects team.  Very good B movie that manages to entertain and scare in spots.The dialogue may be lame and the acting not very good, but what saves the movie is its technical aspects.  Deep Rising(1998) features a goofy performance by Treat Williams as John Finnegan.  The direction is adequate.  Famke Janssen turns in an erotic performance as Trillian St. James. "},{"Title":"Best of a mediocre bunch","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is a CG effect dominated 'haunted house' (or in this case 'ship') film pitting a mixed bunch of ne'er do wells of various moral standards against a malignant, non-human enemy. This description lumps it in with Virus, Anaconda, The Relic, Deep Blue Sea, Lake Placid and Alien Resurrection.However, this film has the almost unique distinction of being quite good. Admittedly characterisation is sketchy, but there is enough, albeit of a stereotypical nature, to allow for the comedy banter that is one of the hallmarks of the genre. The effects are good, the music catchy (I dare you to resist humming the theme for weeks afterwards) the direction effective and the gore plentitudinous. Its nice to see a low budget/low pretension pop film succeed in its aim to entertain without boring or being insanely bad. Like an expert con-man with his charming smile, this film will have you dropping your guard and your sense of disbelief before you can say Now there's something you don't see every day. "},{"Title":"Classic horror movie","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Advertised as Aliens meets Titanic... more like Love Boat meets Call of Cthulhu!Classic Big Dumb Monster Movie - you know who *isn't* going to get it (or at least not until the very end), the characters are all archetypes (the thief, the corrupt businessman, the psycho military types, the socially challenged but brilliant engineer, etc). Very satisfying deaths for the idiots who deserve it, pretty much in the order I would have chosen them to get et.Horror the way it should be - horrible monsters eating people - not some bored teenager with a knife 8-). Grab a buddy, some alcohol, some munchies, and set your brain in neutral - enjoy. "},{"Title":"Woah! A vast improvement on MY christmas!","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Okay, it's 132am 26th December and i've just has my christmas day improved immensely by this film!I mean, I was just flicking through channels before retireing to bed when I caught this film, and i'm glad I did.It starts off reasonably enough, nothing I haven't already seen a thousand times before in cheaper nastier flicks, but this caught my attention.The charatcters all appear to react in more realistic ways than most action films. For example, a character drops his/her gun in one room, and when he/she comes back, picks it up again rather than run away blindly.The director knows that there is a MAJOR glut of these films on the market, and so goes for the same sort of humour and style that made his next film The Mummy so popular, and it works. Well, I think it does.In fact, there were points where I thought I was watching a Stuart Gordon / Brian Yuzna flick, the humour is so simillar.Pacing is excellent, characters are reasonably believable and don't mess around too much. Most of the dialogue is cheese free, but there are one or two moments.Personally, I like Treat Williams line that he repeats throughout the film for it kinda represents the style of the film. Okay, now what? (said in a really bored and almost annoyed manner)I wouldn't buy this, but it's definately a film to tape. "},{"Title":"VERY Fun Sea Monster Flick","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This Ain't No Pleasure Cruise, the tagline of this underappreciated movie reads, but it is for anyone who loves a good popcorn movie.If it weren't for Jaws, I would have said this is the best, most fun sea monster movie, period. I remember having to drag my husband to this- he went along as one of those marital-duty-being-a-good-spouse movie dates. I had read about it in Fangoria magazine, and the effects looked cool. I have trouble resisting a good monster movie, and the other thing I remember reading was that all the cast and crew said they had an absolute blast making the movie. I didn't really expect much, other than some cool FX and a few jumps. But this flick turned out to be so much fun I ended up adding it to my  permanent video collection. My husband started out grumbling but ended up having a good time, too.Treat Williams stars as Finnegan, a stock character who is the type of hero that is a cross between Han Solo and Bruce Campbell. You know, the type of scoundrel for hire who owns his own ship and will get the job done for you for a price, even if it is technically criminal, but is basically a stand-up guy. He and his roughneck gang of mercenaries are hired to hijack and rob a luxury ocean liner on its maiden voyage in the South Seas. When he and his gang, which includes his stock comic relief sidekick Joey (Kevin J. O'Connor), find out that the rich scumbags who hired them to do the job left out a few crucial bits of info that make the job even more dangerous than they thought, they get cranky (standard dialogue such as This wasn't part of the deal, and you know it! ensues). However, this turns out to be the least of their friggin' problems, because when they board the ship, they find all the thousands of millionaire passengers have vanished without a trace. The only handful ones left alive are a sexy jewel thief (Famke Jannsen) and the big bosses of the ship. Guess what happened to them? This is a monster movie, so... ...So I know this doesn't sound like much. And while this movie won't win any prizes for making you ponder the meaning of life, it is entertaining as hell. One of those fun, mindless roller coaster movies that won't go down as the most thought provoking movie (you can predict exactly what is going to come out of a character's mouth at any given moment, such as Hey... What? (pause) ....Be careful), but makes you realize how much fun a good dumb monster movie can be. The special effects are inventive and mind-blowing-they don't look low budget at all, and there's a ton of cool ones in this flick. Some of them are pretty memorable. The monster seems kind of run-of-the-mill at first, but keeps getting better and nastier. Instead of just eating its victims, it takes agonizing time to digest them before spitting out the gristle and bones, making for such a long tortureous death that characters save a bullet to kill themselves if the monster gets them. I won't spoil it, but the monster turns out to be much more impressive and frightening (like lots of great monster movies, you don't see the entire creature in all its horrible glory till the grand finale) than anyone expects.There is also guts, goo, and gore-a-plenty for the splatter fans, so much in fact I was kinda surprised that the MPAA let this movie get away with an R rating. There's many great horrifyingly disgusting moments, and I remember one in particular that occurs about 1/3 into the film that made even the most jaded viewer's jaws hit the floor.While the dialogue is corny and the characters 1-dimensional, there were actually several twists and turns to the storyline that were a shock, including one of the best and most original the end...OR IS IT? endings I've ever seen in a horror flick. Treat Williams is kind of a discount Bruce Campbell (man, that bit of casting would have made the movie perfect), but does a fine job even with some of the stupid catchphrases he is given (NOW what?). Famke Jannsen looks stunningly beautiful as always and is more talented and charismatic than she gets her due for. The CRS (Comic Relief Sidekick), who does such a great job impersonating Joe Pantoliano that I had to check the credits, actually gets some funny lines in (Finnegan Do you know how many uncharted islands there are out here? Joey Uh, two?) The supporting cast, even the extras, ham it up and are clearly having lots of fun.There are some moments that are pretty frightening and there's plenty of nail biting suspense. While this movie is strongly reminiscent of John Carpenter's The Thing,  the Alien series, and even The Empire Strikes Back (Star Wars fans, listen to Williams when he raises his voice, he's a dead ringer for Ford as Han Solo) it is also very original. More importantly, this flick is just flat-out fun. If you're in the mood to escape reality completely, scream, and be entertained, then by all means pop in this underrated little gem , turn off your brain, and get ready to have a blast.Full scream ahead, baby!  "}{"Title":"State-of-the-art gore, if u like that sort of thing","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is an action-adventure flick with a large, nasty monster. Like Jurassic Park, Alien, Predator, and many many more, a group of seemingly competent/prepared people (ie, men with guns) gets involved with something much more than they were prepared for.  Only real suspense if who, if any, will survive.  Pretty high body count and some gore, as well as the usual Hollywood vulgarity.  West Studi stands out as a scowling, buzz-cut villain, and Treat Williams makes a fun wise-guy adventurer (like the Michael Douglas character in Jewell/Nile). If u like gore and vulgarity, enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Actually, a fairly entertaining movie","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Yes, it's derivative of Alien. Yes, it had a B movie budget. But despite this, this was a fairly entertaining movie. It had some subplots that kept the overall plot from losing steam, and the special effects were pretty good (there's one scene of a living, partially digested man that's quite impressive). It does get a little hokey at times, but definitely a good popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"Great monster movie","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising starts off like a B-grade made-for-video monster movie, but rapidly gains momentum. Its Aliens meets The Poseidon Adventure, and with almost as much thrill as the latter combined. However, the acting is poor and annoying, and the script is full of corny dialogue, but the direction, cinematography, and Jerry Goldsmith's pumping score make this a winner.PLOT 3 DIRECTION 8 ACTING 3 SCRIPT 3  SPECIAL EFFECTS/MUSIC 9OVERALL 7 "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  From the man who gave us The Mummy comes this sci-fi action flick that borrows the familiar plot of a-few-people-stuck-in-a-place-with-some-nasty-creatures from flicks such as Aliens.  The acting is pretty basic, but foxy Famke Janssen and squeaky-voiced Kevin J O'Connor stand out above the rest. The director and writer Stephen Sommers tried to add some &#145;comedy' to the script, which hasn't worked, and doesn't treat it seriously enough.  Maybe if it had a darker atmosphere then it would have been better.  As for the special effects &#150; don't even go there!  At times they are okay, but at other times they are the biggest pile of s*ite ever.  This is a fun film, but not a classic.  "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is not an under estimated film, I would feel guilty saying that...but it is not THAT bad...the scenario was common with many cheap macho horror movies, but the whole thing was entertaining, or at least watchable. The actors were not fantastic (Treat Williams is Treat Williams...) but the atmosphere was creepy...sometimes. And somepeople liked the awful Virus with Jamie Lee Curtis better than this one...listen, Virus was a cheap and boring rip-off of this film (and this film was not a miracle at all) and I enjoyed this one a lot more than Virus. The special effects were plain cheap, and the blood seemed to be of a dark pink, but I don't know why, I didn't hate this film...maybe it's because I just saw End Of Days before, but for a cheap action/horror film, this one is the best. The ending was stupid and pathetic, but the rest of the film is almost okay...it's scaring me..! The film is about the crew of a small boat who discover that something killed the whole crew of another ship, a cruise ship. But now, they are attacked by these creatures from the deep ocean. Not THAT bad, but still stupid... I give it 55%. "},{"Title":"better than expected!","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  i just saw this movie about half an hour ago on DVD and it was great! This is an old fashioned monster movie with a great looking monster and lost of gore! It has a lot of suspense, i was on my seat the entire time. Time really flew by watching this one, before i knew it, it was over. It's ten times better than The Mummy, Stephen Sommers' most disappointing movie.This movie's great, trust me, go see it!  "},{"Title":"A fun rip-off","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"    I don't mind it when a lesser movie rips-off a good movie, just as long as it knows its place, and doesn't try to act all cool. Deep Rising ripped off a TON of other movies; but it actualy turned out to be a pretty fun film. I got to kill off an hour and a half or so of a boring Saturday afternoon, and I didn't feel cheated. P.S... WATCHING THIS MOVIE WAS A LOT MORE FUN THAN SITTING THROUGH TITANIC. If Leonardo DiCapprio had blasted through the flooded corridors of the Titanic on a ski-doo, perhaps I wouldn't have been so glad to see him die. "},{"Title":"A relentlessly joyless movie; see it twice!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Don't expect an intellectual thriller filled with scientific insights, a deeply complicated plot, or a touching love story.Instead, grab some popcorn, put your mind on hold for awhile, and prepare yourself for a non-stop assault of gut-wrenching gore, bloated floating corpses, crushed skulls that people have to trudge through, heinous deaths, regurgitated screaming near-corpses, a nauseating monster, an axe in the forehead, and a hilarious ending.Did I mention an axe in the forehead? How many monster movies can boast an axe in the forehead scene that doesn't even involve the monster? Well, this one does!Most of the characters are conveniently evil, so needless to say, they must get what's coming to them. And boy do they ever. I was even sad to see one bad guy only get blown up (quick and painless death) instead of getting eaten and belched back onto the floor. Oh well, as long as he is dead, I guess.I read where all the funny lines were in the promos, but since I didn't see the promos, I was able to appreciate the lines. Treat Williams and his buddy get in some good lines.My only complaint is that one relatively major character gets killed early, which isn't so bad in itself, but I had to rewind the movie to see when it happened, because if you blink, you miss a quick splash (since it is early, we are not allowed to see the monster), which is all that happens, and nobody ever refers to the character again.But if all you want is a good old-fashioned, gory, bump-em-off one-by-one chase through a dark, cold, dank and depressing maze, sit down, shut up, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"OKAY MOVIE!!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  A group of mercenaries go towards a ship and when they board everyone is dead. Theyy search the boat no one is anywhere. So they go on with there business of stealing from the boat. But the things that killed everyone is still there. The creature is a type of anaconda, squid like thing which sucks humans dry.  The movie is okay with it's moments. It's a B grade movie, but it does entertain. Pretty good for something that wasn't a big production with a big budget. "},{"Title":"106 minutes of my life better spent with a groin pull","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I could see the one-line synopsis, It's Tremors meets Titanic. But it ends up being Speed 2 meets Squirm. Rob Botin's creature(s) are nasty, but the CGEs of the monster moving are not as convincing as the slitherer in Anaconda (a better pop-corn movie, too). Famke Janssen gives the flick a layer of class it otherwise lacks and Treat Williams is a likeable, if under-utilized, hero, but the film, which was advertised as a VERY funny monster movie, ends up being a VERY gory monster movie wherein all the best lines were in the coming attractions. The gore is painted on thicker than a Sears house-painting special and for this I strongly recommend you keep this from children (though adults will probably find the gore too fake to care). And a note about those cool-looking mini-guns not only wouldn't delicate Famke be able to tote one (though she was pro enough to make the gun look like it kicked), but none of the big guys could have either, not without help. The ammo and portable batteries required to make these things work are as heavy as Deep Rising's leaden dialog. What's the matter, Hollywood, you love guns so much, can't you get the details right? "}{"Title":"doesn't fascinate, nor disappointed(me).","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  There are so many movies similar with this. Nothing new in plot developing. I think it is very difficult thing to invent some CREATURE that can really horrify you.  In this movie, that's not bad. I was confused the characters of this movie with other famous actors. The hero-Mel Gibson    The ship owner- Nick Nolte You may agree with me. I am very fond of this site, and thank you; the operators and participants. "},{"Title":"Accept it for what it is...and enjoy it","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  It always amazes me...the number of people in IMDB comment boards who measure the film by what they expected when the film made no such pretense. For example, Blair Witch Project just gives a major case of the creeps instead of sending you to a psycho ward screaming in terror.  In the same sense, Deep Rising...which clearly ran an ad campaign in which it looked like Aliens meets Titanic...should not be criticized for not being derivative!Accept it for what it claimed to be a creepy action/horror movie and then judge it on those terms.  Yes, it borrows from Star Wars...so obviously, that I think it's intentional.  The you came in that thing comment is a giveaway.  And please, quit pointing out how similar this is to Aliens! Really, Sherlock?  I'm so glad you're here to tell me, because the group of ultra-marines with nonstop ammo didn't give me a clue.So let's quit sniping about originality and review its pros and cons.The Pantucci character was good...he's definitely a good actor. Pantucci also has the best scene (giving the gun to the terrorist). My only problem with him was that he NEVER mentions his girlfriend after they board the ship!  In fact, we don't know what happened to her.  This was definitely a flaw in the script (especially since she was an interesting character).The creatures were interesting and somewhat unique, with CGI of varying quality.  But I really couldn't tell if they were worms or tentacles or what.  The gory parts were well done.I really wish that the film's promos hadn't revealed that the ship is deserted.  This is one of those movies with few enough surprises that the good ones shouldn't be given away by the advertising.The race on the jet-ski is a bit lame, both for the tentacles everywhere element and the outracing an explosion cliche.The ending...I like the twist, although we know we won't be seeing a sequel. Again, Pantucci is far too positive considering his girlfriend most likely died a horrible death.Taken on its own merits, this is a five out of ten.  Worth renting once, maybe.  (It almost makes me wish MST3K could poke fun at it.) "},{"Title":"Recycled bits of movies and games ground together into this","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is one recycled aspect to another. my main problem is, not many people know this, the monster is actually a creature called a Deepspawn in Advanced Dungeons & Dragons (under the Monstrous Manual, made in 1989). Seriously, TSR could easily win a lawsuit against CGI, lucky for them, noone watched this bomb.  "},{"Title":"gorey fun","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie mainly because I have no problem suspending disbelief while watching a film.  This movie is gory, silly, and entertaining. Sure, it's filled with B-movie cliches, but it goes all-out and makes no apologies.  I expected to hate it and ended up appreciating it for its willingness to be what most scary movies try to pretend they're not - brainless and gory.  Make no appointments, find no disappointments - that's how you gotta watch a movie like this.  I loved it!  "},{"Title":"Shallow Fun","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  OK, yes, there's a guilty pleasure spot in my heart for movies like Deep Rising. You know, movies about a stereotypical group of people that get stuck somewhere with human-drinking serpents crawling all over, hiding, waiting for their prey. Deep Rising doesn't transcend its genre, but it honors it with the utmost of professionalism and everybody seemed to work hard and have a good time making it. So why not give it a passing vote?Treat Williams plays John J. Finnegan, a wisecracking skipper-for-hire who works with a pretty Asian deckhand and an equally funny grease monkey, named Pantucci (played by Kevin J. O'Connor). Finnegan's motto in life is If the cash is there, we do not care. His latest paying crew is a tough band of terrorists (led by an effective Wes Studi) that have hatched a plan to rob an ocean liner. They get onboard but everyone has disappeared. The truth is, everyone has been devoured by an enormous, slithering sea creature that still lurks onboard and picks them off one by one in the typical Alien fashion.The film was written and directed by Stephen Sommers, the guy who made Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book and this year's The Mummy. It is quite obvious that he is the man at work on Deep Rising. Cool action sequences and funny characters hardly leave any room for plot logic; that's what makes this B-grade flick no-brainer fun. Rated R. 106 minutes. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Why CGI must die...","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Or at least get a lot better. The ironic thing about special effects these days is that back in the days of stop motion animation nobody was supposed to believe it was real, and yet they all did. Meanwhile, everyone is supposed to believe CGI and nobody does. Especially in movies like this. The squid is ridiculous.Really, though, it's not a bad way to spend a couple hours-won't kill you or anything. But I just wish more CGI people would realize that they're not fooling anybody.  "},{"Title":"Over the top, this is a stinker of a movie","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  A bomb at the box-office (less than $15 million in takings), it's pretty obvious why it failed. It came out at a time when there were just too many monster (Anaconda, Relic, Mimic etc) movies floating about, but the real nails in its coffin come in the form of a D-list cast and cliche ridden script, which means it just sinks without trace.Deep Rising's main problem is in deciding what it wants to achieve; it tries to imitate Aliens, then attempts comedy, then realises that it doesn't really know what it's trying to be, which leaves the audience clock-watching till the bitter end. It's obvious the director tried hard (he made The Mummy after this), but the dialogue and set pieces are just so trite, that no matter how hard the film tries, you end rooting for the giant squid, and wish that it would just swallow the whole crew up.The movie even has the audacity to provide a 'plot twist' at the very end, but I think this is more in vain, than in hope. There isn't really anything to recommend here, apart from Treat Williams. If you like old Treat, then you may enjoy his attempts at being the action hero, which at times is quite unintentionally hilarious.3/10.  "},{"Title":"So much like Godzilla.","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  After watching this movie, one can't help thinking that this movie is a composite of previous or past movies.  We have Treat Williams acting like Han Solo.  In fact, I can't help feeling the whole crew of William's boat reminds me of Chewbacca and C3PO.  He even says I got a bad feeling about this.  And then there's also the scene where Famke Jannsen remarks You came here in that junk? The creature's tentacles remind me of Anaconda as they carry their victims by wrapping them.  The tentacles react like the Grabboids of TREMORS. They react via the vibrations caused by any noise the humans make.  The monster's face reminds me of the Rancor. What I didn't like I felt Chewie err, I mean Chick With Muscles could have more screen time.  I thought she was more interesting than Famke Jannsen's character. The story introduces the monster like TREMORS, where we are clueless as to where the creature came from and why now.  Still, watching the cast survive the ordeal was fun.  I'd rate it a tad better than Godzilla of which I still like.  Despite all the composite movies in this one, I feel looking forward to THE MUMMY. 3.5 of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Alien meets SOS Poseidon","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Actually it wasn't very good. The effects were mediocre and the plot slightly off. But definitely entertaining. If you like a happy ending, this movie is for you. The ending was indeed quite amusing. "},{"Title":"Kevin J. O'Connor is a Stand Out","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Our family rented this movie while on vacation.  It was a real treat. Gory in parts but also funny.  Especially enjoyed the scene near the end when Pantucci gives the gun, in good faith, to the bad guy who's getting sucked up by one of the monsters.  What a hysterical and unpredictable ending to that scene!  We especially enjoyed the actor, Kevin J. O'Connor, who plays Pantucci.  A few days later, we also recognized him in The Mummy.  What a great character actor!  I will be following his career. "}{"Title":"Deep Yawning is more like it.","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  If you've got nothing better to do, watch it.  If you could be rearranging your sock drawer, . . . Tough choice.  Horror movies do have a certain way of solving their own problems, though.  She can't act?  Good, she dies early on.  For some reason, my dad just stood there through the whole movie. It's not like we only have one chair in the living room.  Maybe he was waiting for it to get good before he sat down.  The movie has plenty of gore, lots of obvious computer-generated effects, and an ending that just makes you mad.  Jerry Goldsmith has written a hugely derivative score, though.  I think it's called Phantom of the Mission Impossible.  I was going to say it was decent, but due to the amount of yelling at the screen I did, I'm going to have to say it's kind of lame. "},{"Title":"Titanic meets Aliens","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This may borrow liberally from every horror movie under the sun, but at least it keeps moving forward, rarely giving you a chance to stop for a minute and think how ridiculous all this is. Treat Williams is on good form as the square-jawed hero, Famke Janssen rarely fails to engage as the jewel thief heroine. Good effects too by Rob Bottin and a suitable pulse-pounding, often eccentric score by Jerry Goldsmith. It won't win any awards for subtlety, or any awards at all probably, but cast and crew do well under the circumstances. If you've seen Alien Resurrection, Titanic, Star Wars, Evil Dead 2, Leviathan, Hard Rain, The Thing or The Poseidon Adventure then the best thing to do is sit down with a list of the above and just about every other thriller of the last 10 years and tick off as many as you can before the closing titles. Great fun and well worth the price of a rental. Just put your brain in neutral first. "},{"Title":"Not my kind of sea cruise.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Not my kind of sea cruise, but truly my kind of sci-fi/horror movie. From beginning to end, Deep Rising is an action thriller when a gang of highjackers take over a luxurious cruise ship. To their surprise they are not alone. They come face to face with a horrible sea creature, from the unexplored depths of the ocean, with large tentacles that dine on the many cruise ship passengers. There is plenty of gore and blood, but thank heavens there is plenty of light humor by Treat Williams and Kevin J.O'Conner, who plays Pantucci, the mechanic. The movie is cheesy at times but entertaining enough to watch. "},{"Title":"Should have stayed deep and never risen","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is the worst, THE WORST!!! movie I've ever had the misfortune in seeing. The plot was weak and predictable, the characters were unlikable, the dialogue was cringingly asinine, and most of the movies elements were stolen from Aliens, Return of the Jedi, Die Hard, and Anaconda. All the characters were stolen from many different movies and the worst part was that the main character was trying (poorly) to act like the great Bruce Campbell. The whiney one was so irritating that, I found that all I was hoping for, through the movie, was that he would die gruesomely! All the good characters die off at the beginning and what we are left with are the most puerile and retarded characters, left to save the day. What's more is there blatant lack of knowledge in basic weaponry, Minigun barrels on standard machine guns is just plain gratuitous, you only need Minigun barrels on belt fed rounds and where were the clips on those guns anyhow? I highly recommend this movie to those of you who like watching pansies fighting better than the strong characters, and a story with no substance that mimics other movies so poorly that it insults them and you. "},{"Title":"Another stereotypical monster movie","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Although the movie had some decent action scenes and special effects (some quite gory), it was just another stereotypical monster movie (reminds me of the monster movies from the 1960s, only updated to the '90s in action and effects) in which a giant sea monster attacks a pleasure cruise ship and dines on crew and passengers.Watching this movie once was enough for me as it was too predictable and had no story line (save the basic theme of kill the monster and/or get off the ship alive). "},{"Title":"Woooow... Look out","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie 'll rock your boat so that water flows out your nose and hits you right in the bellybutton. The special effects alone has the supernatural powers to kill you in your sleep or make you wake up thinking that you're on the most expensive cruise-ship ever built. Now we're talking traffic-stopping lips... I mean effects. No, now I got to go and empty out the room of all seawater that squirted out my nose from last time I saw it (the movie that is...)Ya'll take care now!!!  "},{"Title":"Deep sea monsters in true B-movie style","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I'm not really sure whether this is a children's movie, or a poor monster-flic for the elders... Anyhow, being a children's film, Deep Rising (DR) does have some creepy scenes, and might be a little too scary for the youngest. For the rest of us, DR is just another slash & kill movie that has great effects and sound, but the story's so thin that nobody's really going to spend much time thinking about it.  "},{"Title":"The kind of movie you hope to find on Saturday night at 1 a.m.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Not exactly a parody, but neither is this a horror movie.  I'd compare it to Alligator, Tremors, or Piranha -- B-movies that wear their trashy heritage on their sleeves, with a certain amount of pride and gusto. Deep Rising is consistently appreciative of the real suspense that even a ridiculous plot can generate.  A few gags; a relatively gore-less murdering seabeast; a fine cast comfortable playing within, rather than ironically surveying, the generic trappings.  A hoot.  "},{"Title":"B-grade fun for the whole family","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is a hidden gem in the face of all the big-budget, insanely boring movies that are coming out today.  I'm looking at you, Godzilla and Armageddon. What makes this movie so entertaining?  It knows that it's stupid. Tongue planted firmly in cheek, Deep Rising chugs full steam ahead into cliche country.  Yes, this film hits all the cliches, but it is done in such an amusing way that you don't care. Of course, having the monster be a giant mutant octopus was sheer genius. It is campy to the extreme, but surprisingly scary in parts.  The actors are uniformly great in their roles, never getting too serious with what they know is a fun flick. If you grew up loving B-movies, then see this film.  The ending alone pays perhaps the greatest homage of all time to the B-movie industry (you'll know what I mean if you see the movie).  Two man-eating tentacles way up for Deep Rising. "},{"Title":"It rises, and reaches deep into your stomach...","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie does have plenty of strong points.  It is exciting, funny, and is quite gory.  The movie is somewhat lame at some parts, but doesn't lose your interest at all.  The movie did bring flashbacks of Alien with it's dark haunting corridors.  Treat Williams is a good actor, and he holds up the cast along with Goldeneye's Famke Jannesen.  The monsters look real to me in the theater, but showed weaknesses on the small screen.  It is disgusting at times, and it isn't for the weak hearted.  I loved this movie, and I don't have an exact reason.  Maybe it is Treat's one liner when he is face to face with the gigantic monster, What are you looking at?  I was looking at my friend with an incredible look on my face...and bent over in laughter. "}{"Title":"Squid hard ?","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This one is obviously some Die Hard-meet-Titanic-Meet-whatever, but despite its shortcomings, it is good, unpretentious fun. Mainly because the characters are well drown and almost believable, including a guy who looks much like the Road Warrior helicopter pilot, and the bad guys looks straight out of a Spaghetti western. The final appearance of the monster might makes you yell count the pixels !, but is a good surprise, as well as the final joke.  "},{"Title":"Movie's premise never really rises above mediocrity.","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Lurking beneath the depths of the oceans lies an unfathomable...and unspeakable creature.  This monstrosity, its origins which have not yet been determined will rise above to the surface in search of its prey...  In the discovery of this elusive, rare species, lies a path of destruction and mutilated bodies left behind in a devastating wave of annihilation...Treat Williams (DEAD HEAT, THE PHANTOM) along with Famke Jannsen (GOLDENEYE) and Kevin J. O'Connor (LORD OF ILLUSIONS) star in this gripping tale about the struggle of mankind versus the unknown. Williams, an unwilling lackey working for a team of hard core mercenaries led by Wes Studi (THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS) must help these thieves' driven avarice for gold, money, and other assorted riches.  Arriving unknowingly to a luxury liner, the Argonautica, the team begins to realize that there are no passengers aboard... For, hiding in the stowaways of this elaborate cruise ship lies the mysterious demon which haunts, kills, and drains the blood out of each of its victims one by one...As soon as the remaining crew members catch on to what is going on it's already too late... The bestial sea creature propounds its killing spree by stealthily capturing each innocuous soul one victim at a time. Soon, only a few humans remain and they must place aside all of their differences and learn to work together if survival will have any inherent value...DEEP RISING is a decent combination of the science-fiction, horror, and action genres. The special effects range from excellent, including the spectacular climax, to the blatantly fabricated, which is in the case of the grotesquely designed by still ludicrous looking sea monster.  The sea creature of DEEP RISING, sharing the traits of an octopus, a squid, and of a mean-spirited type reptile, looked rather grandiose...Unfortunately, the cliches in DEEP RISING pop up everywhere. This film has the usual wisecracking good guys, the untrustworthy superiors, the paranoia fueling between the survivors aboard the abandoned ship, and a beautiful woman who captures the protagonist's heart.  The cast though, in DEEP RISING, does an acceptable job with portraying differentiating aspects of the main characters. Treat Williams protrays a pertinacious fighter who refuses to succumb to the insuperable enemy.  Famke Janssen made a tough-as-nails jewel thief who has a little style of her own dealing with mayhem.However, what buoys DEEP RISING from the abysmal sci-fi junk is Kevin J. O'Connor's performance as the hysterical engineer who always snaps at the slightest breeze of jeopardy. O'Connor's character's craven behavior is perhaps one of the main attractions to this otherwise prosaic material.  His dialogue and one-liners are among the best in DEEP RISING.  O'Connor's memorable lines add more spice and humor to an already obvious laugh riot. O'Connor was the felicitous show stealer for this movie.The action sequences in DEEP RISING were okay, but rather than being turgidly directed and devised, these sequences should have been benefited from more enthusiastic direction. Some moments of DEEP RISING were definitely exhilarating, such as the jet-ski chase scene near by the end, and the impending disaster which occurred near the beginning of the movie. Otherwise, the rest of DEEP RISING remains a nondescript thriller in need of some adjustments.In short, DEEP RISING would have been considered disastrous if it weren't for the hyper-kinetic sense of humor, plus some grand, if flashy special FX and a terrific, tense-building cliffhanger. In spite of some drawbacks such as a tired script, corny, occasionally inane humor, and generally pedestrian material in terms of plot and action scenes, DEEP RISING is (almost) worth a look.RATING ** out of ****.    "},{"Title":"I laughed I cried I lost my lunch...","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I thought this was a great B grade movie, proving a big budget doesn't keep you from making one.  The gore was a bit excessive,  but acceptable.  There is a plot here though it's overly simple, the writing only shows up in the one liners, which the cast delivers with good effect.  Little of what happened made sense but it was fun to look at anyway.  If you don't over analyze this thing it's good fun.JRG "},{"Title":"The acting was cheesy, but the intense blood was good.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie is okay, but I didn't like the acting in this movie, but I like the pervasive blood in this movie.  I know It's about when a sea monster attacking the people in the Aeronautica and seeing skeletons covered with blood laying everywhere.  I like when the lady was sucked into the toilet and blood splattered on the mirror.  The effects were awesome, the blood is good in the movie, but the dialogue was dangerously cheesy because It seems to me that the dialogue looked like a Children's film combined with a horror flick in one.  You could see or don't see it, it's up to you.   "},{"Title":"A Sly Homage","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  ****After seeing this flick, I realized two things. One being that this was indeed a very entertaining flcik. And two, it was also a great homage to films, Joe Dante-style. Looking at every basic situation, I could see how much writer/director Sommers paid attention to horror/sci-fi films. It is obvious that he really enjoys them, both good and bad ones, and really wanted to make one. I was very happy to see the way he went about showing the creature for the first time. Not just the tentacles, but the real creature. If you listen to the score, the theme that was present when the giant squid attacked the Nautilus in 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea can be heard. To me, that shows that the director was paying close attention to what he wanted, and achieved it. The throw-away one-liners are very funny, as are the scenes involving the mercanaries in their cabin. It is very much like the way real grunts speak to each other. I congratulate Steve Sommers for producing a film that seemed close to him, and let it flow the way it should.  "},{"Title":"Undecided","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film on opening day, mostly because it was a horror/sci-fi flick, and Jerry Goldsmith composed the score (two great reasons for me to see a film).  While there were some truly genius moments in this film, the overall plot and story didn't ever really grab me.  There were enough parts to the film to keep me entertained, but this is one film that I wouldn't want to own.  Definitely worth seeing once, but forgettable after that -- similiar to the vast majority of so-called 'classic' sci-fi that was produced in the fifties and sixties, such as THEM and Tarantula and all those other giant bug flicks. "},{"Title":"deep  I wouldn't say so.....","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This was a double James Cameron rip-off, first of Aliens, then of Titanic, and maybe a bit of the Abyss thrown in as well.Anyway, this movie is cheesy, but better than a B-movie.  The action is there, even though horror and suspense is not.  This movie is gory, but the effects are so poorly done, it doesn't really seem so.  A movie like the Relic had more gore.  At least it was better than Speed 2.The tongue in cheek homor is actually pretty funny and Famke Janssen is extremely personable (in a very sexy way).  I think this was a fairly good popcorn, throwaway movie.  "},{"Title":"*** out of ****.  Surprisingly scary","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie.  The creatures were actually scary (definitely more scary than the bugs in Mimic).  Stephen Sommers did a good job at creating a scary atmosphere on the ship.  These creatures are everywhere, even right behind you in a room, not paying attention to you at all because it's too busy eating someone else (scene from movie of course).  That scene was scary, and not in the sense that it makes you jump, but makes you think. Deep Rising wasn't as predictable as I thought it would be.  It was actually original and creative most of the time. I also kinda liked the characters too.  The special-effects were also surprising.  They didn't suck.  A surprisingly scary and creative movie.  ***. "},{"Title":"the perfect popcorn flick!!!!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  heheheh!  I haven't seen that good a B movie since Tremors!  Wow!  cool special effects, great one liners, and just enough cheese to complement my popcorn!!  Kevin O'Connor as the whiny sidekick absolutely MADE the movie--w/out him, the whole thing would have been a waste.  I especially liked the blatant rip-offs from every decent action and action/horror movies made in the last 15 years.  My only problem was Joey's girlfriend dying early on--what was the point of that except to point out that tough women can't exist on their own, and ultimately need a stronger man to rescue them. The half-digested man was especially gruesonme, and freaked me OUT!  I loved it!  Those of you who rent this and expect a movie of heroically perfect proportions as so many people do, then you'll get exactly what you deserve.  Those who like cheese and popcorn . . . . . .The end is THE perfect ending for a B Movie--for me, it was worth the price of the movie in itself "},{"Title":"Amusing!","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Despite many bad reviews I've seen for this movie, I have found it completely amusing!  It would never make it in my favourite movies list, however I think it was well worth what I originally paid to see it in the theatre, and again to rent it on video.Flawless special effects and great sound, as well as decent acting on the part of most of the cast.Check it out! "}{"Title":"If you like old-time B movies . . .","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  You'll like Deep Rising a lot more than most critics did.  Admittedly, I probably wouldn't have liked it had I paid full price and seen it on the big screen, but as a quickie rental when I wasn't supposed to be in for the night, and it was my 13th rental at the store so I got it for free--it wasn't bad.The opening drags a bit.  They keep cutting between Treat Williams and the predictable terrorist passengers on his boat-for-hire and a luxury liner on the South China Seas.  But when the ship is sabotaged and the two groups of characters come together, this thing starts moving like crazy.Sure, the mutant octopus behind it all isn't much of monster, but neither was the beastie in Warner's Sh!  The Octopus, and the whole thing moves so fast that you really don't care.  Most of the cast turns in B-movie style performances--two dimensions played well.  And it's kind of sad to see Kevin J. O'Connor, who was so good as Hemingway in The Moderns, in a stock sidekick role that seems to have been conceived for Bobcat Goldthwaite.  But Famke Janssen is quite good as a jewel thief caught in the middle of it all. She really clicks with Williams.  If this were an old Warner Bros. B movie, she'd be Jane Wyman, ripe for a promotion to major league roles.  In fact, Janssen is long overdue for some serious acting challenges (look at her in Rounders and you'll see what I mean).So I say, rent it, and leave your brain in another room. "},{"Title":"Only for People who like B-movies","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  There isn't anything original in Deep Rising, it's only another Sub-Alien B-Movie. It isn't a problem, I saw good sub-alien movies but Deep Rising flunk at all. Some Effects are good, some are bad. Stephen Sommers don't have know how to directed this kind of movie. All the cast were very bad in the movie. The Screenplay is awful. The action isn't great. The only good sequence is on the elevator. I didn't see Deep Rising expecting for a great movie but I never expected that the movie was so bad.The movie is so bad that some sequences are funny. It's a Trash Classic.  "},{"Title":"Been done before, but still good","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie was one of the better horror type movies made in the last five years. Everything has been done before in this movie, kinda like Aliens on a ship. They put all the main people in this movie the hero, the pretty girl, the funny guy and the bad guys all having to get away from this big monster. Good special effects but quite gory in some parts. If you like that stuff you will enjoy this movie. I did. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"DEEP RISING sinks under its own weight","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Now, I'm a very forgiving movie watcher, but I found nothing of entertainment value from DEEP RISING. The action scenes were boring, I didn't really care much if anyone died, the acting was awful  except for Treat Williams , and it was just plain dumb. I love dumb movies, and I know once you've seen one you've seen them all, but there still fun. Not this!! "},{"Title":"Action yes, acting no","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I'm as much of a fan of action movies as the next person, but the acting in this movie (including Treat Williams) was so wooden, it was pathetic.  The special effects were interesting; however, how many more times am I going to see a modified multi-jawed monster ala Alien? "},{"Title":"A mixed flick.","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising doesn't have one original idea throughout the movie, but it is fun anyway. The story is vague, but decent, and the acting is ok I guess, but the special effects and action are excellent. In the end, Deep Rising isn't anything special, but for cheesy entertainment, this one will do. "},{"Title":"No bullet in the head","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is a horror movie. In short, if you do not like horror movies, do not read on. Go away. If you like them, however, this is a definite go see.Good special effects and a few steps in front of the pack of dingo's kidneys that usually gets cranked out of the horror industry makes this film with seeing. Instead of giving you the entire story (as one of my predecessors has) I'll just give you what differs this movie from the general genre stuff.* The good guys annoying friend that whines a lot and gets on everyones nerves is one of the only guys that survive. I was shocked! This is highly unusual.* When one of the bad, but honorably, guys is being eaten by a monster and the good guy hands him a gun, he tries to shoot the good guy, instead of himself. As a result he has no bullet to kill himself with and is forced to endure the slow digestion death. Very funny!These are two of the points, at least. I don't want to give it all away. Granted it has most of the traditional ingredients for a disaster horror movie, but it manages to be interesting and exciting nontheless. No mean feat!See it, enjoy it. Just don't go for a calamari dinner afterwards.I would like to comment that this movie won't be shown in the Swedish cinemas. I saw it as a part of the Fantastic Film Festival in Lund a few weeks ago (an annual film festival in Lund and Malmö, Sweden). If you live in Sweden, I suggest you look for it in the video stands, though it won't do half as well on the small screen I bet. "},{"Title":"Women and children first, then everybody else.","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The moment Deep Rising started, I could see Stephen Sommers knew what he was doing. Here we have one of the funniest movies of 98. A creature flick that doesn't take itself too seriously, ripping off every creature movie to appear. Some genuinely funny moments, great acting by Treat Williams, a frightening monster and the best creature effects to be seen in a horror movie. Don't listen to those that think this is brainless tripe. There is a brilliantly fun and gory (i love that) movie  "},{"Title":"A really fun and entertaining monster movie","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Stephen Sommers definitely gets a lot of mixed reactions about his films. There are people who love his films or absolutely hate him, but the one thing I know for sure is that this movie is Sommers best film thus far and one of the better B movies in the last 20 years.Good The movie is just a lot of fun. It knows what it is and it rolls with and delivers as much insanity as possible and it comes off as very entertaining. The setup is basically Aliens, Die Hard, and Titanic, but it works and the cast is all game with props to Treat Williams for being a great leading man. The gore is great and the creature looks cool. Some great lines and a breakneck pace.Bad The effects have aged badly over the years especially the big reveal of the creature.Overall, as a B monster movie, it succeeds in spades delivering a gory and entertaining horror action film with laughs, action, and blood. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" A group of shady customers pay Treat Williams to take them out to sea on his boat. Once at sea he realize they are heavily-armed mercenaries who intend to hijack a luxury liner. However, when they arrive at the ship they discover it has already been overtaken by tentacled sea monsters that have killed almost everyone on board. Treat Williams is a lot of fun as the action hero, likable and funny. Famke Janssen is sexy and also funny as a thief who was on board the luxury liner before the creatures attacked and manages to survive. The villains are clichés but enjoyable ones. The movie cobbles together elements from better films, yes, but this is a fun popcorn movie without pretensions. There's action, comedy, horror, and some sci-fi thrown into the mix. It's just a great time-killer. There's nothing wrong with that. "}{"Title":"The bloody ship's infested!","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" You know very much what you're getting with writer / director Stephen Sommers' Deep Rising a thrill a minute, joke a minute high-tech high-concept combination of action and horror.Essentially, it's like Tremors set aboard the Titanic, which could well have been how Sommers pitched it to studios. Finnegan (Treat Williams), a skipper for hire, transports a well armed group of thugs towards an enormous luxury liner. The thugs, led by all-business Hanover (Wes Studi), intend to rob all the passengers of their valuable possessions, but what none of them could have anticipated is that the ship has already been fatally waylaid by an onslaught of ravenous, hideous worm like creatures.The best element about Deep Rising is that tongue in cheek quality; Sommers makes sure there's a witticism for every situation, and while this won't be to the tastes of some genre fans, others will appreciate the sense of humour. The pacing is excellent, and the atmosphere undeniable. The sets are impressive, and underscoring it all is a thunderous Jerry Goldsmith soundtrack. The special effects are pretty good as far as digital monster mayhem goes; FX master Rob Bottin (The Howling, The Thing) is the man credited with the creature design, and while his work here isn't among his best, it's not bad at all either. Williams is an absolute hoot as the wisecracking hero. One wouldn't think of him for this sort of role (it's more the kind of thing you'd see Bruce Campbell play), but he makes the most of it. Eye candy is supplied by the luscious Famke Janssen as the spirited leading lady; Una Damon as Leila isn't exactly hard to look at, herself. Kevin J. O'Connor supplies the heaviest comedy relief as the endearingly annoying Joey Tooch Pantucci, Finnegans' mechanic and sidekick. An excellent assortment of actors play the thieving baddies to great effect Djimon Hounsou (whose presence is undeniable), Cliff Curtis, Trevor Goddard, Jason Flemyng, and Clint Curtis. Anthony Heald is malevolent fun as the sleazy owner of the liner, and Derrick O'Connor as the ships' captain rounds out the main cast. They all help to make this very agreeable entertainment, along with a script that has its share of quotable dialogue.All in all, this is equal turns suspenseful, exciting, and downright nasty (there's some juicy gore in here), and it leads to a rousing finale and a truly hilarious resolution that will make one wish a sequel had been made. If you love seagoing creature features as much as this viewer, be prepared to check your brain at the door and enjoy.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Can you get me a cold beer......","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" When a band of ruthless hijackers invade the world's most luxurious cruise ship, they're shocked to discover the passengers have mysteriously vanished. But that doesn't mean they are alone. Something terrifying is lurking just out of sight a deadly force from the unexplored depths of the ocean that begins to snatch the horrified intruders one by one....If you know the work of Sommers, then you will know what to expect from his movies, aside from the fact that they lessen in quality every time a new one is released, but one cannot deny that there is an element of fun to them.And this is the most entertaining movie he has ever done, unlike The Mummy, Van Helsing and GI Joe, this has less budget, but more substance.We have the old rag tag team who are Expendable, shipping a group of bad guys who are even more Expendable, going to rob a ship and then find something more sinister lurking aboard.It all has a whiff of From Dusk Til Dawn to the who,e proceedings, but it's more tongue in cheek than that, and the cast seem to having a whale of a time. Williams is great as the grizzled hero who has all the best lines, ably supported by O' Connor and Jannsen.It all adds up to noting at the end of the film, but it's all good fun while it lasts, despite the awful effects and plot holes. "},{"Title":"Old-Fashioned B Movie","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" What I love about Stephan Sommars is his unapologetic B-movie approach to film making. Not regular B movies, but old-school, 1940s B movies. Even though this film takes place in the modern age, the ornate ship and the square-jawed, irreverent hero scream out 1940s. The movie has the old-fashioned thrills and chills seen in Sommars' other films like The Mummy and Van Helsing.The story is efficient and, while fairly predictable, moves at a brisk pace. The movie follows modern genre conventions like spending the first part of the movie not showing the monster while making it clear there is one, but it follows the conventions as though it invented them.It's not a perfect movie. One bad guy's actions make no real sense, Kevin J. O'Connor has the traditional B movie role of the annoying comedy relief (with a cracking voice like Scooby Doo's owner), and even though the movie is only about 90 minutes long, the last 10 feel a little slack, as though all the good ideas have been used up. But all in all, this was a very entertaining film. I hope Sommars never goes arty and serious on me; he's so good at popcorn-entertainment. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably different monster movie!","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Before Deep Rising, long gone were the days of giant sea monster movies... in fact besides Jaws and anything adapted from a Peter Benchley novel, those films never really had their day. Leviathan and Deep Star Six were two other memorable shockers from the 80's and they weren't awesome memorable.Deep Rising revived that genre momentarily in 1998 as a quick witted and action packed horror with a fun cast of characters and buckets of blood, guts and slime. If anything, imagine From Dusk Til Dawn with better actors, a better story and script and with a giant squid instead of big titty vampires with scary Mexican faces.John Finnegan owns an absurdly high speed boat, his crew consisting of his idiot best friend Joey and Joey's Asian girlfriend Leila. Speeding across the ocean, their well-paying cargo is a team of frankly wicked-humoured mercenaries. Their destination is classified, even to Finnegan who accepts the need to know conditions of the job so long as it pays well.Simon Canton is the owner of the world's largest luxury ocean cruise liner celebrating its maiden voyage. Before long laughter and partying turns to disaster, panic and death.When Finnegan and the mercenaries turn up, they find that the passengers of the entire ship have disappeared all but for Canton and some of his crew and a beautiful high-class thief who was arrested and locked in the pantry with all the champagne and chocolate.There is nothing to be taken seriously about this film except for how stunningly awesome the horror and action scenes are. The special effects were of the highest standard for the time and the CGI still outclasses much of the CGI offered today in many high budget offerings.As well as being freakishly terrifying and capitalising on everyone's fear of horrifying sea creature digestion-before-death, this film is well balanced by non-stop absurdly comic humour and it's all thanks to a great script, direction and a well assembled cast.Treat Williams (Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead) as Finnegan is as effective as Nathan Fillion as Mal Reynolds in Firefly. It makes you wonder why he never got the offer to do more similar roles because he's just a great action star and not only delivers comedy as well, he has many a form of chemistry with every co-star he comes into contact with, whether they be friend, love interest, enemy or plain old co-existor.Kevin J. O'Connor who has been in more great films than anyone realises portrays Finnegan's annoying sidekick friend who can't keep his mouth shut. Amazingly, he takes that character intended by the writer and transforms Joey into the kind of idiot you just can't hate. If it had been anyone else (maybe with the exception of Alan Tudyk), it would have failed.Famke Janssen, who was making her steady rise since the mid-nineties comes off as a pro as Trillian St. James but rather than settle for either useless damsel in distress or Ripley-esque ass kicker, she settles in between as a femme just a few comedy punchlines shy of fatale.These are the main characters and the ones you care most about but even the nasty even mercenaries you'll find yourself rooting for, especially when they're led by Wes Studi (Last of the Mohicans, Mystery Men) as a battle hardened lunatic who just doesn't give a damn but knows who he'll choose when faced with lead hero or evil man drinking slimy sea bastard.Admirably his team comprises of Jason Flemyng, Cliff Curtis, the late Trevor Goddard, Clifton Powell and even Djimon Hounsou, a hell of a neat team of B-Movie mercenaries and actors that can put a lot of juice into some otherwise two dimensional villains turned scared wet kittens with mini-guns.Any good thing ever put into an ocean based thriller this film has, from jet ski chases and giant explosions to ship corridor tidal wave chases and realising that you're holding your breath every time someone finds themselves trapped underwater.Music legend, the late Jerry Goldsmith (Alien, Total Recall, Small Soldiers, 13th Warrior) provides the booming orchestral themes and suites in only the way he knew how and what we have here is a film that delivers more than most modern offerings know how to.Director and Writer Stephen Sommers (Jungle Book, The Mummy, GI Joe) did an amazing job and could do with a look down memory lane to get back in gear. But then we might see a return to form with his up coming production of Dean Koontz's Odd Thomas.Recommended with a dry room far from large bodies of water! "},{"Title":"One-dimensional Mindset Through The Sensationalism of The Post Modernism ??????!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" .. Just Kidding ! It seemed like (Aliens) meets (The Poseidon Adventure), but it is genuine when it comes to its real fun. (Stephen Sommers) can write and direct some of the most glamorous action adventure movies to an iconic extent. Here, observe the important traits  one nice plot for sci-fi horror comic action, non-stoppable cliffhangers, one unforgettable cinematic revenge on the rich people (all awfully murdered !), not to mention the distinct showing for them and their collaborators (evil and desperately deceivers !), plus some accurate CGI despite being cheesy and too fake at the end. I loved too many touches along the way  The Girl from Ipanema in the elevator while the world is collapsing, the wise story about once I saw a man puts a fish in a bottle, or the movie's last moment. Even the guns were too cool this time ! It gave us the best role and performance for (Famke Janssen) yet, one of the best sidekicks to relieve (Kevin J. O'Connora), and distinguished attempt for (Treat Williams) in an action; although the wine wasn't that matured for me but he did it well. Mostly don't expect much of the hero in (Sommers)'s works but being simply the abstract hero, for instance (Brendan Fraser) at (The Mummy) did nothing but looking good and saying after every exploding extravaganza (Now What ?!) yet through satisfying crazy action that fills the screen beautifully and enjoyably; quite like this one. In a whole, it's perfect 90 min of absolute nonsense, that successfully forced me to re-watch it whenever I got the chance (I've watched it 7 times in 8 years, that's a recorded !). Therefore my review's title is for anyone complains about this movie as B-movie, or waits for something deep may raise beyond it ! And while not making it to be a hit at the time of its release, the movie managed gradually - through the video stores and the TV reruns - to become the classic it should be. One last note, for me (Deep Rising) is definitely more amusing and way better than (Titanic), sorry just to (Kate Winslet)'s beauty ! So if (Sommers) can masterfully create magic, then you have to feel strange as well as provoked when all the credits goes to (Steven Spielberg) and (James Cameron) only !!! "},{"Title":"Fun monster flick","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" In DEEP RISING, Treat Williams keeps the tone light as the skipper of a salvage boat who, with his bristly crew, board a sinking ocean liner to loot it. They find exactly three people on board, including the luscious Famke Janssen as a pickpocket, and a whole lot of tentacled deep-sea monsters that have devoured everyone else on board. Now the monsters begin devouring Williams' crew. Yes, folks, it's ALIEN on a cruise liner! Williams wisecracks his way through, thank God. The monster is a CGI thingie, and not very convincing. But director Steve Sommers keeps things moving, and was fortunate enough to have some terrific character actors backing up Williams and Janssen, including Wes Studi and Jason Flemyng. Every step of the plot is predictable, but it's all in good fun. "},{"Title":"Awful but funny","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Treat Williams is the only reason I can think of to see this warmed-over giant sea monster tale. A group of salvage types board an abandoned ship, only to find flesh-devouring tentacled creatures waiting for them instead of treasure. Whether by way of script or his own interpretation, Williams maintains a fairly light tone, even as the gore quotient ratchets up. He never takes things too seriously, so neither do we. The CGI isn't half bad, and this oceanic version of ALIEN and JOHN CARPENTER'S THE THING offers up a genuine thrill or two along the way. The pyrotechnic ending is all too predictable. The beautiful Famke Janssen is along for eye candy purposes. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, not fully developed....","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Interesting concept, high sea hijackers battling sea monster, deteriorates with each passing minute. While the set up is interesting, the script runs out of steam, and soon becomes cartoon-like. Fair acting, fair monster effects, slightly elevated by occasional bursts of humor, Deep Rising is entertaining for awhile, then becomes repetitious and eventually silly. This might have worked better if the script had been developed beyond the clever opening idea. The script would have made an excellent black comedy, had it been written for laughs. Deep Rising definitely misses the mark. A curiosity at best, a missed opportunity, and a very mediocre B movie. - MERK "},{"Title":"If You Like Sea Monsters, This Movie's Alright","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" A freelance sea captain (Treat Williams) offers to bring his passengers anywhere they want, no questions asked. This leads to a snag when he picks up some high-tech, wealthy pirates who are set to hijack the largest cruise ship ever built. But the pirates hit a snag when they find a sea monster has already reached the boat before them, looking for dinner.There is a certain level of cheese to this film. Sea monsters in general seem cheesy to me, and the addition of Treat Williams (Dead Heat) to the cast makes it seem like the intention was to have a sort of throwback to a time when bad one-liners could sell a film. Williams hasn't been a real crowd-bringer in a while. (Allegedly they wanted Harrison Ford, but couldn't get him. I think this seems more like a Kurt Russell film, but that's just me.)The action is pretty good. Not non-stop, but enough to keep you going. The special effects and computer-generated monster aren't the greatest, but a lot better than I've seen in other action/fantasy films (this means you, Van Helsing). Famke Janssen (playing the Douglas Adams-inspired Trillian St. James) is a nice casting choice. A decent leading lady and not too well known. I think the character was a horrible hero (it was like Scarlett O'Hara if she had cat burglaring skills). But she wasn't really important other than to be the chick anyway. Much like the token black guy, whose name I can't even recall. He seemed to exist just so they could use the m-f word in the script. None of the pirates has any real depth to his character.This film is good for a movie night with a few friends and a case of Miller High Life or Rolling Rock. I can't take it seriously, but with a little bit of a fun mindset, you might get some enjoyment from it. But if you're looking for Treat Williams, really do check out Dead Heat first. It's a lost classic of the horror-comedy genre. This one will just be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Terrific guilty pleasure","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" A group of modern-day pirates come aboard a luxurious cruise ship to do some booty hunting, but see that no one seems to be on board. Nothing human that is and they start to be hunted by huge sea serpents who are still hungry after eating all the passengers.Anyone who has seen at least one Stephen Sommers flick can pretty much know what to expect some story and lots (read LOTS AND LOTS) of action. This movie is wholly ridiculous and is about as intelligent as a sci-fi B-movie on TV. But what you can't deny Sommers is that the man knows how to entertain. Plenty of tension, gore, suspense and monster action as the pirates realize that they are not the only unwelcome visitors.Guilty pleasures rarely come better than this! --- 7/10Rated R for violence/gore "}{"Title":"Underwater monsters and Famke Janssen","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" A movie about underwater monsters just like Profundidad 6??? or Leviathan. Some dialogs that are simply hilarious (because they're so typical!!), characters that are so stereotyped and the usual situations of this kind of films.The digital effects are not that bad and it's always a pleasure to see Famke Janssen.Barely entertaining.*My rate 4/10------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------- ------------------- "},{"Title":"Bloated Remake of Aliens","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Big budget money losing attempt to clone Aliens in a different setting. A squad of mercenaries (a squad of Marines) go to a luxury liner (space colony) where they find all the passengers/crew (colonists) have been wiped out by a undersea creature (a deep space creature). They attempt to escape the ship (the planet) but most of them are killed. They are there because of a back story about the evils of capitalism, specifically profits to be made from a hijacking scam (from commercializing the alien). They split into two groups, those who board the cruise ship (enter the colony buildings) and those who stay behind on the assault boat (the assault transport); and cut back and forth between them. The hero is a maverick outsider played by Treat Williams (Sigourney Weaver). The main villain is a slimy businessman (corporation representative) whose greed endangers everyone. Comic relief is provided by wisecracking Kevin O'Connor (Bill Paxton). The group encounters a lone female survivor played by Famke Janssen (Carrie Hein). Unfortunately for Deep Rising investors they did not hire the writers from Aliens. This oversight will have you wondering how they could sink this much money and effort into the making this movie, and put so little thought into writing the screenplay. Too bad really-because while unoriginal, the premise does have a lot of potential. There was simply a failure to execute so that after a promising beginning things bog down completely and it just becomes an exercise in excess. They miss the boat (bad pun) big time by showing almost nothing of the monster's original attack on the cruise ship which would have been far more interesting than the seemingly endless battles between mercenaries with pop guns and a monster whose elastic properties allow it to do anything. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Boys With Toys","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Well, maybe Boys and a Girl with toys is more appropriate. Producer-director Stephen Sommers (The Mummy series and The Scorpion King) have whipped up yet another entertaining popcorn movie (check in your brain and enjoy). Sommers misses perfection by a few missteps. Had he toned down the gore a smidgen, the MPAA might have give him another PG-13, which is more in line for a movie geared toward teenagers and young adults. He also shouldn't have killed off a dominant character so early (More on that, under SPOILERS). At least two scenes are unconvincing dramatically (also, under SPOILERS). Finally, the opening CGI of Treat Williams boat and of the cruise ship are so cheesy, I almost shut the movie off before discovering how much fun it really is.WARNING SPOILERS Providing a plot layout would spoil the fun. I went into this one knowing nothing about it, except that it involved sea monsters. However, for the initiated, let me talk about Sommers missteps a bit. First, killing off Leila (Una Damon) so early was a mistake. Her interplay with Treat Williams and Kevin O'Conner is the first and one of the best pleasures of the movie. It doesn't hurt that Leila is a real cutie, but tough enough to be the equal of any man in the film. Of course, there appears to be an unwritten law in Hollywood; any chick with boobs bigger than the leading lady's has to die. Also, I wonder, since the two most dramatic death scenes involve Asians, if Stephen Sommers is making a wry comment about the Asian penchant for sushi (serving up a Calimari that bites back.)I've already mentioned the gore and cheesy CGI, so it's time to mention the two unconvincing scenes. It's been made pretty clear the monsters are incredibly strong. They buckle steel several inches thick throughout the film. Second, when they attack, between their strength and savagery, a full grown man is reduced to pulp in an instant. So how is it one of the monsters takes so long to kill Wes Studi, and the great grand-daddy of them all handles Treat Williams without leaving even a mark? We're back in kiddie movie country with this kind of thing.END OF SPOILERSDeep Rising doesn't really lend itself to a sequel, though the ending certainly leaves open the possibility. Certainly, I would love to see these actors (including those who didn't survive, particularly Una Damon) work together again. I give Deep Rising a 7. "},{"Title":"Predator + Leviathan, with special effects from Van Helsing","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Deep Rising ReviewHollywood is sorely lacking in a lot of ways these days. Not enough originality, too many remakes, for instance. But no genre suffers more than poor old horror. And, since I've done this rant countless times already all over the internet, I'll not subject you to it with this review. But I will say, monster movies are one of those wonderful genres that Hollywood has pretty much killed.And this.... is a monster movie. We've got a gigantic cruise ship being hunted by an international team of mercenaries. Each one so different from the last that it's damn near impossible to actually imagine such a diverse team actually working together. At any rate, they get to the cruise ship and lo and behold, everybody's dead. A sea monster done et 'em all up. And then, of course, the fun begins.Here's the breakdownThe Good--There's a decent amount of gore in this film, which in itself is rare in a mainstream Hollywood horror film. The fact that the gore actually looks pretty good, generally, also sets it apart.--Relatively fun.--Pretty good music.--Some likable characters.--Tons of action. Some actual decent suspense, albeit, briefly. Plenty of violence.--Famke Janssen!! Whoo!!Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--Fairly interesting story, but not terribly original. Attacked by sea monsters? Never seen that before! Group of mercenaries hunted by some creature/force? How new!! *coughleviathan*cough*predatorcough*--Some mediocre characters.--The mish-mash cliché collection of mercenaries is pretty cheesy. We've got the Mexican guy, the Middle-Eastern guy, the African black guy, the American Black Guy, the British guy, the Australian guy, and the American guy. In fact, this whole movie is a hands-across-the-world kinda flick complete with female co-hero and Asian female. It's like the UN stuffed itself into a horror flick! Feels a little forced, though. It doesn't feel as ridiculous as the mish-mash group of friends from Return of the Living Dead (part 1), but it's close.--Yet another action film masquerading as horror.--Average acting.--Decent cinematography. About average for a film of this nature. Nothing special, but it gets the job done.The Bad--The monsters look pretty awful and are made entirely of CG effects and animation. And it's painfully obvious. The killer tentacle's mouths are mind-numbingly, and needlessly, elaborate.--The creature movement is pretty ridiculous and unbelievably fast and weird. It's an over-blown way of trying to make the creature seem scary by making it faster and faster, but it comes off as wildly unrealistic.--Creature inconsistency ***SPOILER HERE*** The tentacles are initially set up as being their own creature, when it's later revealed that they're all part of one gigantic animal, yet, the tentacles behave as if they are individuals, rather than part of something. ***END SPOILER***--Wildly cliché moments through and through.--Some truly awful dialog.--Cheesiness abundant.--Almost no horror atmosphere. It plays along more like an action film, so the scares aren't quite as cerebral.The Ugly--The comic relief guy. I hate these characters. They ruin movies. Especially horror movies.Memorable Scene--The room o' corpses.Acting 6/10 Story 6/10 Atmosphere 6/10 Cinematography 6/10 Character Development 4/10 Special Effects/Make-up 4/10 Nudity/Sexuality 1/10 (No nudity, just brief dialog) Violence 7/10 Gore 7/10 (Quite a bit for a mainstream Hollywood release) Dialog 5/10 Music 7/10 Direction 5/10 Cheesiness 6/10 Crappiness 1/10 Overall 6/10 This film is watchable and passable, but really offers nothing new and the creature effects are pretty bad. Sci-Fi original feature bad. Relatively enjoyable shlock. Not the best horror film of this nature, but clearly not the worst. Recommended to horror fans looking for monster movie filler.www.ResidentHazard.com Message Board http//bartboard.proboards3.com/index.cgi "},{"Title":"This Movie has it all","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" This movie has everything your looking for in an entertaining flick. You got a hot lead actress in famke Jansen you got to love her. you got great action, sea monsters lots of good smart ass comments that keep you laughing. Any way this movie is about a group of thieves who hire a boat to get them to a very rich cruise ship so they can rob the guests but when they get to it there is no on it and from then on everyone has to work as a team to survive the Jet ski scene is perfect except someone needs to tell the directer the engine is under the seat not in the front. Because Finnagen is looking under the hood as says that the engine is shot. the engine is under the seat oh well one flaw works for me anyway everyone enjoy I did. "},{"Title":"Now What?","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Nicely done sci-fi/horror of a gang of modern day pirates with ingenious Chinese weapons looking for a big money payoff as sea. These commado  types hire a straight flying wanderluster, his speedy boat and his oddball crew on a very stormy night on a mission known only to the seedy group of well armed neo-pirates. Their mission, and they've chosen to take it, is armed attack and take over of a sparking new 450 million cruise ship on it's maiden voyage in the China Sea. Now why a maiden voyage in the China Sea is a mystery, unless you would have read the script of this amusing action thriller. You see it has to take place over one of the deepest parts of the Pacific Ocean, the China Sea Trench. One reason for this....the ship has to sink after all the passengers have been taken off in the life rafts. No one will be able to visit the wreck due it's depth in the trench. The bad guys even have torpedo bombs to make sure the ship Titanics. Why?....... you ask yourself do these guys want to sink a brand new ship? More important is once the speedboat arrives at the ocean liner (still rough seas and constant lightning, thunder and deluge of rain) is it sitting dead in the water. Well all the bad guys force the Captain of the speedboat and comic relief man, the engine mechanic, to board the cruise ship together. This is where it does get kinda creepy. The interior of the ship, the lounges, restaurants and casinos are wrecked. Everything has been thrown all over the place. But creepier still much of the debris. broken chairs, tipped roulette wheels, smashed tables and those endless buffets are cover in blood and slime. Everyone seems to have checked out without using the life boats. The passengers are gone. Very strange! With homage to the original Posieden adventure, Aliens, and Arnold I'll be back Swarzecnager this flick is enjoyable, but generally forgettable. CG is great in some scenes and below par in others. The added element of humor works some of the time, but suffers in others. You could do worse on a Friday night a 945 at Hollywood Video. CLIVE 13 RATING SYSTEM IS AS FOLLOWS.... VSLWACSEF V.....for Violence (extreme) S.....for Sex (Very little hetro, some macho beefcake) L.....L is Language (pretty tame, just a few F words) W....W is for Writing/story (nothing totally new , mild twist) A.....A is for Acting (Basically B actors, but acceptable) C.....C is for Continuity (better than many similar films) SE...SE is for Special Effects (creature was decent, others grade c+) F.....F is for Frightening (not really...although I don't like being in water up to my waist when there is an underwater monster about!) Favorite line....Much overused by Mr straight guy captain of the speedboat What now? Best Scene......Creature shows it size , strength and eyes, which the captain promptly impales with a flare gun making the squid like Alienesque creature very upset. Worst Scene....Why is it that a regular torpedo can explode at the waterline of a huge cruise ship and then have it ALL blow up just the way Tokyo always did in the Godzilla franchise? And....you can tell it's a miniature model....Poor CG.RECOMMENDED for bit of cheeky fun with little redeeming value 6-7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Slick, cool, and fun! A real thrill ride!!","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" When their cruise ship is attacked by something from below the known depths of the sea, a group of mercenaries must get into a fight to save their lives. This movie was so awesome! A very cool plot, great acting, and comedy! It's Perfect! Famke Janssen is very cool as Trillian, a professional thief who joins the team of mercenaries in order to escape the doomed ship alive. Treat Williams plays Finnegan, a tough as nails boat pilot who drives the mercenaries. Kevin J. O'Connor plays Pantucci, Finnegan's mechanic, who provides much of the comic relief of the film. With awesome special effects, the creatures look real. The end is fantastic! See it, by all means see it! It is a great movie! No one should miss it! "},{"Title":"Brought to you by the moron that made Van Helsing and The Mummy (spoilers throughout)","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" The cruellest thing in Deep Rising isn't that a woman dies on a toilet or that people are drunk alive by some giant sea monster, it's that Kevin J. O'Connor's character Joey survives. He's obviously meant to be a fun character, one that provides welcome comic relief for people with double digit IQs, but how can you take to someone who speaks like the squeaky teenage character in The Simpsons, who asks what he's looking at as he looks at a bunch of skeletons and who is so stupid that he gives one of his enemies a gun when the said individual pretends that he's going to kill himself? All the time I was hoping that he was going to die.What made it even worse was that I knew he was going to survive. He's the wisecracking half-wit with a heart of gold. You can't kill him. But Sommers tries to give you hope. Near the end Joey goes missing. But because you don't see him die, you know he's going to miraculously turn up at the end. And so he does. Somehow he manages to escape a blood hungry sea beast and then navigate miles of stormy sea on a surfboard. Brilliant&#133; Deep Rising is one of those movies that feels like it's been created by some computer programme. It's a bit of Aliens, a bit of Tremors and a bit Jaws&#133;only with all the wit, all the excitement and all the scares removed. I think it should have been renamed 'The Unholy Smorgasbord of Formulaic B-Movie Claptrap'.Out of all the obvious clichés, the hard-nosed, wisecracking pirates are the most hackneyed. You've got the horny one, the overly aggressive one, the cowardly one, the mental boss and the ones that are fodder for the monster. Out of these, the biggest idiot has to be the horny one. There's one bit where this guy sees a bunch of Playboy pictures. Now bear in mind that this guy is supposed to be robbing a cruise liner (there's 'loot' on board) and that he and his mates have stumbled upon a ship that is flooded and covered in blood. You might think that this bloke has more important things on his mind. But no, despite the fact that people are disappearing and he's up to his ankles in water, he decides to leer over these pictures like a 13-year old who is still getting to know his right hand. Idiot. Oh, and if you hadn't already guessed, he dies soon after.Another stock character is the cowardly Brit. Now I don't have a problem with this character if it's done well &#150; there's nothing like a spineless Englishman &#150; but Jason Flemyng can't act. Plus even his native accent sounds fake &#150; although that could be down to the awful dire-logue he's forced to chew on. But what makes the character even more of an eye-roller is how blatantly it steals from the magnificent Hudson in Aliens. There you have a coward you can root for. Here you have a coward who you hope dies. And die he does &#150; naturally right after he finds his balls.Seeing as I've just mentioned Aliens, I should also note that there's a character who, facing certain death, blows himself up to take his killer with him (this character, instead of being a cowardly Brit, is a cowardly black man. Geez. If you want to survive a horror film, it doesn't pay to be black or British&#133;or even worse, a black Brit). Also stolen from Aliens is the evil corporate guy. This bloke's another half-wit. Apparently he built a huge ocean liner, found out that it was going to loose him money, so he concocted a plan to have it's 'loot' stolen by pirates and to have the ship sunk to take the insurance. Here's a plan for you do your homework and build a ship that's profitable, you moron! However, evil corporate guy does have some use; he can provide the audience with useful exposition. He even works out what the monster is and how its digestive system works after only taking a couple of looks at it. As well as being a terrible businessman, he's a marine biologist too.Do I need to point out that the monster is rubbish? Well, it is. The CGI is of the same standard as Anaconda and the badly designed tentacles (twenty sets of teeth and overlapping mouths equal overkill, not terror) inspire about as much fear as a mute shouting 'Boo!'Anaconda, though. There's another film where parallels can be drawn. In both films there's a scene where a half-digested person is released from the belly of a beast. But while both scenes in both films are stupid, Anaconda wins because Jon Voight winks. (There's a fine line between amusingly stupid and just stupid.) Other stupid stuff include an Asian woman who can't act, an Australian who gets killed after going off on his own, a big monster that is a blatant rip-off of the Queen in Aliens, a jet ski escape that coincides with a huge explosion, massive guns that look like they've been designed by a visually impaired five-year old and scene after scene of people arguing with one another for no logical purpose other than to build up some half-assed idea of tension. Oh, and the film also contains an absurd amount of close-ups of people crying, screaming, shouting and swearing as they fire their guns at the pesky monster.And another thing the ending is abysmal. I've already mentioned Joey turning up, but not only does that happen, but two characters who don't really like each other kiss and the safe island they land on is revealed as having a monster of its own. Ooh, that's an original twist&#133; "},{"Title":"Pretty good monster movie","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Some weird monster has invaded a luxury liner and is killing everybody by sucking out their blood. Silly premise but then the show is played for laughs along with scares. Treat Williams is OK as the macho man leader but he has to do something about that high-pitched voice of his. His partner joey the grease monkey gets off some good lines like when everybody is SLOWLY moving thru the ship expecting the monster to get them and all of a sudden some music starts playing. Somebody says What the hell is that? and Joey says girl from ipanema.Wes Studi plays the leader of the bad guys and as always is great. Nobody plays hate and mean as well as wes. SPOILER - And boy does wes come to a sorry end. The monster has caught him and is SLOWLY killing him and along comes one of the good guys who gives him a gun so he can kill himself. But just out of meanness, wes shoots at the good guy first and then puts the gun to his own head and pulls the trigger. CLICK. No more bullets!!!! So his slow agonizing death continues.The monster itself is pretty darn impressive though how this huge beast is able to move thru the narrow corridors of the ship is of course never explained. "},{"Title":"Aliens on a boat","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" This movie was terrible. The plot was only half baked. Mercenary style thieves with guns, insurance scams, and then everything goes wrong.Once again, a movie that only pays attention to bullet counts when they can make a dramatic scene of it; otherwise every gun is always loaded.Typical corridor chase scenes abound and when will studios learn that a bomb explodes all at once and not progressively just enough so to let the heroes escape?The animation is terrible; this is a '98 movie which was outdone graphically by The Abyss and Alien 3. The creatures don't look real in the least. And no real explanation is ever given on why the boat was attacked by these things in the first place. (And true to formula, there's a 'queen alien' near the end too)The only plus note of the movie is the acting. The cast did play their parts well. Anthony Heald even impersonated Paul Reiser's 1986 shiftiness with reasonable accuracy.But an action/suspense flick where you know the end before the 2nd guy dies? Please. "}{"Title":"You can tell they had fun making this","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Deep Rising is a big dumb B movie that's actually a little smarter than you would expect. It certainly beats the crap out of Independence Day, Underworld, Queen of the Damned and a bunch of other films that aim to be A movies.The cast is rather likable, with often funny dialog, it makes one wish Treat Williams was given better and more frequent roles. I guess he fills the role of a lesser Bruce Campbell.The effects, primarily cgi for the monster(s) are very good for those in a 1997 film that didn't have a massive budget.To summarize, enjoyable as a popcorn flick, superior to many films of similar nature. "},{"Title":"Oh well...when you really have nothing else to do","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" One of the most overcrowded genres in movie history must be the monster movie, in which a group of diverse characters, confined to a ship/secret base/spaceship get killed off one by one by giant aliens or sea creatures. The genre has produced some great movies like the Alien movies, some enjoyable camp like Deep Blue Sea and lots of utter disasters like Resident Evil. Deep Rising falls somewhere in the middle.In this movie, an politically correct group of B-actors (every ethnic minority is represented) gets consumed by strange creatures on a huge cruise ship. All of this happens in a very predictable way, and the director made sure that just about every cliché got included, from the evil corporate guy to the clumsy sidekick. As usual for this kind of movie, the plot doesn't make an awful lot of sense either (why do those guns never run out of bullets?) but that's OK. After all, you don't watch movies like this for the plot.What's worse is that Deep Rising mostly is a pretty dull affair. None of the characters are particularly interesting and there's very little development, even for the genre. There are some attempts at humor which sometimes work and sometimes don't, but Deep Blue Sea was a lot funnier. Likewise, there's not much tension since it's hard to really care about any of the characters, and the monster attacks are very predictable, ruining the potential for any good scare moments.On the bright side, there are a couple of things the movie does well. First of all, the special effects are decent, and the ending sequence in which the cruise ship explodes is excellent. Next, there's a decent amount of gore in the movie, which is IMHO also a plus for movies like this. And finally, it has the always charming Famke Jansen in it.On the whole, I'd say this movie is watchable. It brings absolutely nothing new to the genre and is all in all fairly dull, but at least it doesn't take itself too seriously and doesn't pretend to be anything more than it is.**1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"A lot better than I think......","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I admit that I get this film from the video store cause it is cheap and I don't expect much from it. However, when I finished it, I find it a lot better than I expected. The special effects, the script ( Which is very funny, by the way ), and the story line are all very good. The only problem is that the creator tried too hard to impress the viewers with too much gore. However, with the script ( Boy, do I like the dialogs. They are really funny all the time. ), and the overall story, Deep Rising is still an enjoyable movie. Get it if you want to have 2 hours of good time. It deserves an A in the B rated movies. 8 out of 10 stars  "},{"Title":"Wrong leading man","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I'm not going to damn this movie for its unoriginality, amongst other things but I have to say how ridiculous Treat Williams look as the action hero. I've seen him in several action movies but somehow, this is something for the likes of Bruce Willis and he looks really uncomfortable with the machine gun in his hand, trying to look like the action hero who saves the day-personified.The supporting cast, however, did look their parts but Famke Janssen comes off just like a female accessory in the movie. There wasn't any chemistry at all between her and Treat Williams and they really look very incompatible together. There was supposed to be this sexual tension between the two of them but it didn't come out at all in the movie - she was too tall for him for one thing. The supporting cast, including Wes Studi, who usually plays the villain, were pretty good. Never mind that they were just a group of burly man with machine guns to play with - they made it look rather cool.I had no problems with the plot of the movie whatsoever. After all, we need no brainers like these once in a while. Too bad the leads weren't too good. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable schlock &#150; a modern b-movie through and through","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Under the motto `pay cash and we don't ask', John Finnegan and his crew take a group of heavily armed men on their boat to the middle of the china sea to board and rob an luxury ocean liner.  However when they arrive on the ship it is deserted and covered in blood.  They begin to explore the ship and find that they are not the only thing that was hunting the ship and after a short while they themselves find they are trapped and being hunted by something that came from far below the surface.I have seen this film twice now, the first time I was actually taken by surprise as to how gory it was and how enjoyable I found it.  The second viewing gave me a more objective view (mostly because I was slightly drunk the first time and probably easier to please!). First of, let me say that the film can only be enjoyed if you accept that you are watching a b-movie creature feature, nothing more or less than that.  If you expect a really scary movie then you'll be let down, likewise if you expect state of the art effects then you'll feel robbed.What the film does well is to deliver what it promises.  As a B-movie it expects basic thrills with a big monster and clichés all the way!  The effects are poor at times and, yes, it is a matter of guessing who'll get killed in what order rather than guessing who'll get killed.  However it also doesn't take itself very seriously in the same way as The Relic did, it doesn't mock itself but you can tell it has it's tongue in it's cheek at times.  It does this well because it doesn't detract from the actual gore which, at times, is quite effective despite the computerised tentacles.  Only the actual money shot of the monster itself is disappointing when it is revealed &#150; but isn't it always with these things?The cast are far too famous to be in this type of film, but that's an extra appeal.  They are a group of faces (you'll not know most of their names) who play clichéd characters and delivery dialogue that is out of a cardboard box it is so mass produced, but they are still OK!  Williams is good and mixes in some good one liners, Janssen is sexy and the majority of the rest of the cast get killed off in sudden (or slow) ways.Overall please don't think I'm saying that this is a great film &#150; I'm not.  However it is an enjoyable b-movie and nothing more.  If you compare this to the blockbusters on show at your multiplex then it's a real dog.  However if you compare it to it's peers on the bottom shelf of your video store then you'll find that this is head and shoulders above other creature features in terms of thrills and entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Poor animation, but 2 great actors save the movie, quite good fun","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Decent enough sci-fi action movie from the director of `Jungle Book'. A group of thieves land on the world's most luxurious cruise ship to a distinct lack of holiday reps and masses of mutant creatures. Battles, betrayals, and slightly unnecessary love interests soon ensue, leaving the few survivors working desperately together to escape the ship.One of the most noticeable faults in the film is the monsters, they don't look right, they do look impressive enough in their own right, but they don't fit in correctly, it usually looks as though the actors are merely standing in front of a big play station screen.Films of this sort really need great characters to keep you interested (see the `Aliens' series), otherwise it just slips into generic drive in viewing material.This film only has 2 great characters Mulligan (Jason Flemyng-Snatch, Lock Stock And 2 Smoking Barrels, From Hell) and Joey (Kevin J.O'Connor-The Mummy) who for me really made the film, both great to watch and they both really had the look for their parts.A big mistake was pushing them out the limelight for John Finnegan (Treat Williams) who isn't necessarily bad in this film, but poor scripting, and what looks like a lack of effort make him a very unconvincing hero.Overall I was pretty entertained by this film, it reminded me quite a bit of `Alien Resurrection', I think fans of the genre will appreciate this film to some extent.My rating 7/10  "},{"Title":"Darn this SUCKS big time.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This so called horror movie is about as scary as watching the Teletubbies. The monster is naff the cast are wooden, the only thing it has going for it are some of the special effects. The script and so called action are totally predictable. When does the black guy get it? when does the Brit get it? when does the psycho pirate leader get it? How does the hero get the girl to safety? what more can I say? "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  What a waste of Famke Janssen and the unoriginal (but entertaining)idea of a sea monster. Seriously, if the creature can blast through the hull of a ship and squeeze itself through the toilet pipes, why would it be vulnerable to a handgun?? It just doesn't make any sense.Contrary to some comments, I dont' find the effects spectacular at all. Maybe it's because of Jurassic Park, which raised all our 'judging standards.' XP some of the shots were obviously very computer-generated.Extremely explosive!  Lotsa fire, guns and exciting boom-boom stuff. Doesn't take a lot of brains to understand.  The actors were fine, I grant you that. It's worth watching ... if you've got time on your hands, and are in need of mindless entertainment. "},{"Title":"An Under-Appreciated Classic!!!","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I'll admit that years ago, when the movie first came out, it looked like sheer crap at the most.  Years later, I became a fan of Sommers through his Mummy films, and heard that Deep Rising was just as enjoyable.  So on an impulse, I got the DVD one day.....and boy am I glad that I did.Okay, the acting is cheesy at times, and the monster itself is one of the worst-designed things in Hollywood.  But otherwise...First off, Sommers did a fantastic job of producing a fun, thrilling movie. The action sequences are enjoyable, and the characters are fantastic (fun performances from Treat Williams and the always-hilarious Kevin J. O'Connor).  Jerry Goldsmith's score is amazing (as usual), and over all, it's just a fun movie to sit down and watch. "},{"Title":"works well if you lower your standards","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Fun, if corny and uninspired action movie/horror movie/sci-fi movie/thriller from director Stephen Sommers. In desperate need of money, a freelance skipper (Williams) takes a job with a rogue gang of ruthless pirates, never dreaming that they plan to hijack a renowned and expensive cruise liner. Soon they find themselves in over their heads when they realize that the ship has already been attacked by vicious sea monster mutations. Action scenes are exciting, the special effects fairly impressive, the actors above average (especially a perfectly cast Williams), but the script isn't very inventive in terms of dialogue, story, or character. Those hoping for an original monster movie should look elsewhere. ** "}{"Title":"Great movie!!(Contains spoilers)","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I saw half of this movie one day on a movie channel and couldn't wait to see it from beginning to end! With Treat Williams as the lead in this great, all star casted, movie, including Famke Janssen, Kevin J. O'Connor and Wes Studi, you can't go wrong.Treat Williams plays John Finnegan a seasoned, smart as a whip but slightly underhanded boat captain whose life philosphy of if the cash is there, we do not care lands him in more trouble than he can get himself out of and nearly costs him his life.Throw in the hilarious Kevin J. O'Connor as Joey Tooch Pantucci as the boat's mechanic/engineer/and fix it all man and things just go from bad to worse.Carrying a band of mercenaries who soon take control of his boat, they find themselves taking on water after a boating accident in the middle of nowhere squared.They see a luxury liner and decide to call on it for help. However when they reach the ship it is dead in the water and that isn't all that is dead on it.Introduce the lovely, but dangerous thief, Trillian St. James (Famke Janssen)a survivor of an unimagineable catastrophe and you think things can't possibly get any worse.Wrong...Things go from worse to unthinkable as the mercs find themselves teamed with the hapless boat captain, the mechanic and the thief in what may not be the perfect partnering, but it is that or death.Treat Williams shines in his role as Finney Finnegan and you believe every word out of his good hearted but out for the highest bidder mouth, and Kevin J. O'Connor breaks the unbearable tension that this movie is rife with with his jokes and silly persona. He is the much needed break in this film and he does a stand up job in one of the best roles of his life in my opinion. Too bad he didn't receive the recognition he so greatly deserved for pulling off such a stupendous role.You find yourself torn between hating the mercs, played wonderfully by a great cast topped by the likes of Wes Studi as Hanover, Trevor Goddard as T-Ray and Cliff Curtis as Mamooli whose goal it is in life to make love to one woman from every country in the world, for just being themselves to pulling for them to survive and even feeling sorry for them.This movie has you up and down from beginning to end and you will think twice about ever asking yourself now what? "},{"Title":"poseidon adventure meets alien4 meets brain dead.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  never heard of it ,never seen it before last night, and hell ,i was planning on getting an early night too but i couldnt turn this film off. just like the mummy it banged along non stop till it was done. i guess the critics sometimes dont understand, it was a monster movie brain off, lights down, and should be appreciated as such.worth a couple of hours of any ones time. i give a seven. "},{"Title":"AWESOME MOVIE!!!!!!!","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  *spoilers* Although the critics said this movie was a joke, I really liked it. It is about a ocean liner that is attacked by a sea Monster that devours the passengers and kills off high-jakers that attempt to raid it. Rob Bottin's Monster design is awesome, the action is great,and it has plenty of tongue-in-check Humor. It had bad acting,and a not-so good story,But who cares? leave the story up  your imagination!!!! so, overall, this was a fun and entertaining Monster flick. (I wish that they would not use so much CGI, but,the Monsters were so cool that they can make up for it. The DVD transfer is great, but it has only a trailer for it's bonus material. So your better off with it on VHS. "},{"Title":"Not too shabby...Just check your brain at the door","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Man, did this movie ever get creamed by the critics!  I don't usually listen to critics, but in the commercials, the effects seemed cheesy and the front cover art looked stupid (I mean, it totally gives away the ending).  I was pleasantly surprised though, when I rented this a few years later in the .99 cent section and found it to be rather entertaining.***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***Okay, noone's an idiot here, you KNOW almost everyone is going to die right from the start.  The movie did not do a good job with characterization (there were way too many characters/squid fodder to deal with), but it did do a good job showing the camraderie of the pirates, which by the way, are a rather cool bunch of hombres (a la Aliens).  Some of the deaths were stupid, others were inventive (The axe in the head was definitely the highlight of the film), others were way over the top (the half-digested guy screaming for about half an hour after he pops out of one of the monster's tentacle things), but then again, that was the movie's purpose, to entertain and not to make a bit of sense.I'm a huge B-movie fan, mainly b\c the filmakers pretty much do whatever the hell they want to for the sake of entertainment.  Most of the time, these films are campy and lack all of the Hollywood cookie-cutter cheesiness and big budget stars which is most of the time, a good thing.  This one is a pretty good B-movie b\c it entertains without a huge budget, nor A-list actors.  It was good to see Treat Williams in a starring role, but since the critics murdered this film when it was released, I haven't seen him in much of anything ever since.  Treat's best attribute is his screen presence, not his acting, but the presence works and makes for a great good-guy actor. There was a ton of action with some cool guns (anyone know how a gun like that can hold 1000 rounds like Wes Studi's character says in the beginning? It must be magic since the cast plow through these things and reload maybe twice the entire movie), but sometimes it go a little tiring.  The CGI (ugh, I loathe those dreaded letters...) ranges from below average to okay, and they throw in a few buckets of fake blood for good measure.  Also, the acting ranged from bad (Yes, this means you Kevin J. O'Connor) to good (Wes Studi, Jason Flemyng from Lock Stock and 2 Smoking Barrels, and some other stock actors you know you've seen before in other movies).  This movie reminded me of Virus (another film about horror on a ship), Alien Resurrection and Deep Blue Sea all of which were pretty good movies, at least IMHO.Anyways, not a bad outing, and yet another Steven Sommers mindless actioner (Can't wait for the next Mummy movie).  I'm just glad to see that most of the reviews on IMDB are mostly positive and accepting of what this movie is...goes to show you that we the people know what we want and not the actor/film star wannabee critics (They're critics b\c that's the only job they could get in film).  I'm sorry to hear this one was a box-office disapointment, though, I could say it was due to crappy advertising and of course, the ubquitous critics.  Also, this one is very similar to other movies of the genre, and offers very little new, but is a good mindless actioner, at any rate.  I was surprised at the lack of groans that came from me while watching this b\c I was expecting a movie that sucked, but instead got a nice way to kill a Friday afternoon.  6/10 stars.  "},{"Title":"thankfully it has a lot of action!","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  *Spoiler Warning* This movie had everything a really crappy movie does, poor dialogue, bad acting, horrible story and too much comedy in situations that should be more serious. But it's not a crappy movie it's an awesome movie simply because the monster is really cool and there's a good amount of blood and gore and a huge explosion of the ship at the very end. This giant squid like creature is able to spread it's um tenticles I guess all over this huge cruise ship and suck the juices out of people's bodies and spit back out their bones! There aren't too many boring parts, the movie needs some more lightning most of it is really dark but other than being corny it's a very good and fun movie to watch. However on a sad note it appears the movie lost a good amount of money so the ending which teased a sequal never happened, oh well still a great movie! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Deep Rising is a excelent sea monster film with some neat bad guys,lot of action,and more!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Minor SpoilersThis sea monster action horror fest isn`t to be missed! I`M sure you know the storyline so I will comment on the action and and the monster. The action is pretty good and it has decent effects. Now for the monster,it is pretty impressive when it comes to it`s looks and it is really dangerous and it has one heck of a roar! This movie has good acting and the gore factor is high plus it has great music by Jerry Goldsmith! There hasn`t been too many sea creature movies and especialy like this! I just hope there will be a sequel too this movie,I gotta know that that was at the end) "},{"Title":"Superior action","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Wow, this was a whole lot better than I expected ! Deep Rising is a superior action movie that borrows from a whole bunch of classics Aliens and Starship Troopers to name the two main influences. It's very well made - the CGI monsters are great - and the script is top-notch, with more than a few laugh-out-loud moments ('there's something you don't see every day!'). The wonderful ending is like something straight out of Evil Dead III - a great way to round off an above average movie. Treat Williams is decent in the title role, and even Famke Janssen isn't too annoying !Overall, well worth an hour or two of your time. "},{"Title":"Cool special effects. Minor Spoilers","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  When I first saw the previews for Deep Rising back in 1998, I didn't know what it was about.  From the looks of the previews, it looked like some kind haunted ship film or something.  When it finally came out on tape, I rented it and watched it.  Then I found out saw what it was about. A man of the sea and his wisecracking sidekick have been hired by a band of mercenaries to take them to an unknown location and when they arrive at their destination, which is a giant cruise ship in the South China Sea, they discover that know one is aboard.  Little do they know, the crew and passengers had all been killed off by a giant sea monster.  The monster, a crafty computer generated critter, looks like a cross between an octopus and the worms from Tremors.  I especially liked the premise with this creature.  Get this, it doesn't actually eat you, it drinks you.  It swallows you alive, with the help of countless mandible jawed tentacles, and it sucks your skin off, and starts sucking the fluids out of your body.  I think this premise is pretty creative and we get to see a gross example of this process.  To sum it up, Deep Rising is a pretty good monster movie with a good plot and cool special effects. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Who said Monster movies had to be scary or suspenseful!!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  How could anyone take this movie seriously? From the first scene of a mercenary getting an ax in the head. To the half digested, puked up, walking, talking corpse, this movie is about gruesome laughs, nothing more. It was one of the funniest, weirdest flicks I've seen in a very long time. I can just picture the director, actors, crew, sitting around laughing volunteering even crazier ideas for a totally nuts movie. I give a 10 out of 10 for the smiles it brings to my face every time I see it. "},{"Title":"Cracking good entertainment.","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Stick your brain into neutral, sit back and enjoy the ride. Deep Rising is far better than Sommers recent hit The Mummy, with Treat Williams pulling off a passable impression of a young Rod Taylor.If you enjoy the tongue in cheek humor of films like Tremors you'll love this. "}{"Title":"Refer's to the movie , Deep Rising , in general .","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is a movie which I will call a classic . It's simple plot and character's allow the viewer to sit back and get involved in it , without having to think too much .The movie does however provide character's that are easily liked and disliked and also that essential game we all like to play ..... Guess who's going to die  .Although sometimes the effect's of the film do look computerised , it still provides a visual blend of just what we need to see . I did not find myself questioning the plot or asking that old question ... why ?  . I felt the film explained itself and that the overall movie was an enjoyment to see .The acting was good and in my opinion this movie should be seen by anyone who enjoy's the horror/sci fi genre . "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie because there was nothing else on the DVD shelf I could've possibly liked and it was going to be a snowy cold night tonight. I also thought this flick would have a good Dolby Digital soundtrack and I was in the mood for sound.I was under the impression that this was a movie that was a rip off of Alien, Titanic, Die Hard and more. Well, my impression turned out to be right but I had no idea I'd like it so much.The Characters are fun, it doesn't take itself seriously and delivers the thrills. One thrill, rips off Annaconda by producing a partially digested victim, but it works. Especially since it tops the original scene by REALLY making the victim look digested (and still kicking to boot).Yes, the film is gory. One scene in particular had so many snacked on mutilated bodies on the floor that you could here the juicy sound effects as the characters are forced to walk on the remains(EEEEWWWWW!).The humor works well throughout and I found myself laughing out loud at least a few times. One scene, in particular, works very well for a black humor laden laugh.When the material is as familiar and time worn as this, most of the burden falls on the cast to make the movie fresh and likable. Treat Williams, Kevin O'Conner and Famke Janssen succeed in doing just that. Treat Williams has always been under rated, Kevin O'Conner has got a great Steve Buscemi style future ahead of him and Famke Janssen has great comic timing and is more than just a pretty face.Yeah, you'll find bits and pieces of many other films you've seen in Deep Rising but it's still an entertaining melting pot.  "},{"Title":"Much better than expected.","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This film was excellent! I grabbed this movie off the video store shelf in a hurry, when I got home I thought I may have made a big mistake, but I was wrong! I absolutely loved this film from the beginning to the end. There hasn't been a film in a long time which has made me jump, but this one did. If you haven't seen this film, I suggest you do so immediately. "},{"Title":"Really bad!","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Famke Janssen is the only redeeming quality this horrible B-flick has.  It is so predictable and lame.  Don't waste two hours of your life watching this film.  What were the producers thinking?  I suppose they made their money back. "},{"Title":"A+ for B-grade.....","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The entertainment value of this flick is superb.  How can you go wrong with simple sci-fi attributes, a low budget cast, high budget monster effects, score by Jerry Goldsmith and a mindless yet enjoyable script??! Fun, fun, fun.  Campy at times, Evil dead gore at times and sinful guffaws the whole way thru.  If you are looking for something that will pleasantly surprise you, this is it.If you liked the new 1999 version of THE MUMMY (Brendan Fraser) then you will like this (it was directed by the same guy, Stephen Sommers).  In my personal opinion DEEP RISING is the better movie so....... Don't expect the same movie, just the same amount of fun.Ignore the mainstream critics (though some of them liked it!) and indulge yourself in a great movie that was in the theatre for two weekends....enjoy! "},{"Title":"Great effects, action, and humor!! A triple treat!!!","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie and I enjoyed it. As a matter of fact I've seen it a few times. Granted, it has a campy quality in different scenes. Even though, they pull it off. Great special effects for a creature feature and action and humor all in one. I'm just waiting for a sequel. With the ending, they have to make one!!!! "},{"Title":"Fun to watch, but still bad...","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This flick is entertaining, but does fail as a movie. It's one of those bad movies that you can watch over and over again and still like it the same way.Watch it for fun, don't watch it if you're expecting The Godfather. "},{"Title":"great fun","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Sure, you can listen to all those stuck up people who said Deep Rising was unoriginal, that it lacked a plot and good acting.  Or you can listen to me when I say that this movie was hella fun.  From start to finish, Deep Rising was full or thrills, action, and laughs.  The movie didn't take itself too seriously, instead it seemed to focus on entertaining, and boy does it succeed.  This was one of the best movies I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"A fun movie, if you don't expect anything else.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I reluctantly went to this movie under a friends suggestion.  This is by no means the best movie ever made.  It does stand out as one of the only monster/gore movies to come out tin recent years that has some good suspense and a good horror feel to it.  I make a definite recommendation for horror fans.  Just don't be disappointed by the cheesy Star Trek VI klingon blood C.G. at the end of the movie.It's basically a fun movie, don't expect anything more than that. "},{"Title":"Gore, Guns and Good Fun","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is the sort of movie that leaves you with a big smile on your face and a desire to own one of the 5-barreled rifle-chainguns its main characters carry and spray bullets everywhere with...  this movie performs its mayhem with big guns, small guns, shotguns, fireaxes, flareguns, acid, explosives and anything else its characters can get their paws on... all the ingredients of a fine evening's entertainment!So sit back, put on your war face and watch the mayhem happen. "}{"Title":"Here's lookin' at you squid","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Truly awful monster flick. Laughable one liners They're some kinda mutant sea monsters! which, as we all know, are much worse than plain ordinary sea monsters. Sue the makers for wasting your time. "},{"Title":"Horror?","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  If this is a horror movie then why was I laughing throughout the movie? Even my sister's cat and my mother found it laughable. But then - why did I see it to the end? Perhaps it is so ridiculous that it is entertaining? Anyway I do not intend to see it another time. "},{"Title":"avoid at all costs","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" This was so bad I had to register here to warn other people.Avoid unless you want see cartoon characters and cgi sea monster making noises.And every cliché possible in a very bad way.Just awful. Do not waste your time on this.The ending especially made me want to die.By the way this is nothing like alien movies. no comparison at all.To quote another movie This is so bad it's gone past good and back to bad again .That is all. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Pure escapist entertainment","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" When I have to actually use my brain to try and understand a movie I lose interest.So this movie is perfect-it has everything. Naturally its absurd but then so is life Probably the most absurd thing is a never ending supply of bullets which have the power of at least demolishing part of the creature Apparently the entire population was moved out on lifeboats so they learned something from the Titanic. In fact there's a comparison to the Titanic-its the ultimate luxury liner full of rich people.But thats all about to end-they're in more danger from the creatures thrashing about somewhere and causing the ship to flood than from the hijackers who came on board earlier-this is only a sub plot as they probably wished tjey hadn't bothered!When the survivors land on a beach comes the biggest shock.But then you realise its wide open for Deep Rising 2. "},{"Title":"Beyond the Poseidon Adventure and Leviation, like two ships meeting on the ocean","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Stephen Sommers tests the waters, pre-Mummy, with this cheese-ladened romp on the South China seas. This is not a barren, lifeless ocean but one brimming with celebrities  Treat Williams, Famke Janssen, Djimon Hounsou, Wes Studi, Kevin J. O'Connor, Jason Flemyng and Cliff Curtis. Oh yeah, and there's a creature as well. It is some monstrous leviathan that grew out of the mysterious and deepest depths of the ocean. A boat full or mercenaries, a cruise ship, a prolific thief, the ocean and a monster. Stephen manages to combine all these elements into an enjoyable romp. This movie has much of the same elements as some of Stephen's other movies - The Mummy, the Mummy Returns and the Scorpion King. There are elements of a heist, a survival horror and even some comedy. It also has action. It has graphic deaths. It has a somewhat skewed logic. And there is the campy humor. Much like Stephen's other movies, the cast seems to display a lot of chemistry. They work well together. The movie also doesn't drag. The pace of the movie is quick and enjoyable. I especially enjoy the comic timings of Kevin J. O'Connor (the multi-religious Beni from the Mummy).This isn't a movie full of deeper meaning and metaphors. This is just a fun movie. If you enjoy movies like the Mummy, Evil Dead, Phantasm and Shaun of the Dead, then you will most likely enjoy this. Until then, just try to figure out how to get a fish in and out of that bottle. "},{"Title":"A decent movie","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I'm not sure why it's got such bad reviews, sure its cheesy, but I dunno, I guess its the good kind of cheesy. The characters are a bit linear, and the film takes a while to lift off, and get to the action, but I'd say its worth it. I'm not sure about Janssen's part though, sure it was there, but I think she was a bit underdeveloped, and just sort of 'throw in there'. Don't get me wrong, I really like her, but her part could have been a bit more interesting.This was a bargain film that I watched with a few mates just a sec ago, and we all laughed and enjoyed it. If you've got a spare hour and a bit, I'd give it a go.Bit of a open ending, but meh. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure Confession","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I have to confess; this Deep Rising is such a guilty pleasure and I absolutely love it. I do happen to appreciate B-grade flicks like this, but that's only part of the reason. It's also b/c this movie achieves exactly what it sets out to do and it has a lot of positive elements.It's obvious that movies like these are simply meant to entertain. We have an interesting setting, heavily armed commandos, an attractive damsel, a unique threat, explosions, a macho hero, great one-liners and a likable cast. The truth is, those are all good ingredients for this type of movie to be successful. I believe the cast is probably the main thing that makes this film so likable. I think Treat Williams is an under-rated actor. He has turned in some good performances in other things, and I was surprised at how well he did in a role that isn't really like anything else he's been in. He isn't really considered the action-hero type, but his character of Finnegan is so stereotypical-macho hero, and he plays it to perfection. I love it!Kevin J. O'Connor is great as side-kick mechanic Joey. I like the chemistry between him and Williams and he definitely gets some of the best lines. Famke Jensen definitely qualifies as an attractive female lead. And the supporting cast all fill out their roles well. Yes, the action is far-fetched. Yes, some of the dialogue is cheesy. But what makes it so great is that it seems like the cast knows it and doesn't take them selves too seriously. I have always wanted there to be a sequel, but knowing Hollywood, they'd prolly just screw it up anyway. All in all, Deep Rising is a fun way to spend an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure!  You betcha!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Okay, so DEEP RISING ain't the CITIZEN KANE of goopy monster pix who cares? This is a Movie, not a fillum! Stephen Sommers knew exactly what he wanted to go for when the Disney folks greenlighted this one. It's got your sorta good guy with a wink and a grin (Treat Williams, PRINCE OF THE CITY), your exotic girl (Famke Janssen, X-MEN), your never-smiling real bad guy (Wes Studi, THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS), your very, very bad guy (Anthony Heald, SILENCE OF THE LAMBS), and your slacker comic relief (Kevin J. O'Connor, THE MUMMY). Oh, yeah, and the Monster to give 'em all a hard time, created by five different CGI houses. It has very little logic, but that doesn't matter--the FUN is what we want, and what we get! Lotsa smart dialogue, lotsa dumb dialogue, lotsa chasing, scaring, eating, digesting (the best shot in the movie), and blowing stuff up real good (as Roger Ebert would put it). The only faults I toss at DEEP RISING are its generic, non-descriptive title, and the terrible way it was released theatrically by Disney. They hadn't a clue how to sell it, and the movie (here comes the pun) sank without a trace. Thank goodness it's been rediscovered on VHS and DVD by moviegoers who like a little humor with their monsters. Sommers left the ending open for a sequel which will probably never happen, but hey, he's a mogul now! Maybe he'll get the chance. The Disney folks could use a hit, and maybe Stephen will be the one to give it to them. "},{"Title":"Action, Sci-Fi Horror, and Comedy blended in that working order!","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Very likable cast and a big nod and a wink screenplay/directing save this movie from the B-grade sci-fi scrap heap! First off, if you only like A-List Sci-Fi then you can forget this one. There's really no underlying creep-fest going on here to keep you riveted. Instead there's a truly ridiculous in your face creature on a rampage that is saved by a perfect-fit cast supported by writing with a lot of nudge, nudge, wink, wink humor.My wife would not watch a movie like this, but she was out of town and I popped some popcorn got a brew and enjoyed being entertained.No suspension of belief...Just kept watching the cool Treat, beautiful Ms. Janssen, and over-the-top likable Joey (that boy was a find) battle the creature from hell. May never watch it again, but certainly enjoyed it once. "},{"Title":"The Creator","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Was this movie written/created by a gay man?It would certainly explain the huge vagina that tries to attack people...And I have trouble picturing it as a *real* ship, and not a *space* ship.It feels as though it should be a space ship.The alien in this movie, or the creature rather, (you know, the huge vicious vagina), is excellent, as far as B-Grade science fiction / alien movies go. If you like the classic aliens/monsters/creatures-attacking, then you will enjoy this movie. But you have to like it for its outrageous manner, because it would not win any Academy Awards. "}{"Title":"A cross between...","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Watched this last night on BBC 1, utterly ignoring the continuity announcer's warning that I'd be 'disturbed' by the film about to commence - aren't I a brave little bobby?. I can't say that I was 'disturbed', but I was hugely entertained by an extensive collection of some of the most magnificently awful one-liners ever uttered on screen. It's only to expected in an offering such as this, but you still enjoy it when it comes along.Recalling a description of the 'naturalist', Steve Irwin, as 'David Attenborough meets a cheeseburger' I think that a fair description of 'Deep Rising' would be 'a sort of cross between The Poseidon Adventure and a cheeseburger' - with a generous relish of blood, guts and bones.Strangely enough - I hadn't actually planned to watch the film, so I had no idea, before it started, who was in it - I thought of the female lead that's the sort of semi well-known 'bit of stuff' who might have appeared in a Bond film and if she hasn't she should have done...and sure enough Ms. Janssen - as I have since found out - did...in 'GoldenEye'.    "},{"Title":"FULL SCREAM AHEAD!!!!!!!! too right","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Just what you need on a Saturday night, a take-away pizza of curry, a living room sofa, and a good old fashion, bloody, gory, tongue in cheek monster movie.(And your gonna need a strong stomach for this one.)Although the special effects are nothing to marvel at, this is just what late night horror should be made of suspense, bad jokes and dry humor, blood, guts and gore. The slogan Full Scream Ahead is also catching and completely appropriate for this kind of movie.Recommended to anyone who has seen and enjoyed tremors and/or any of the alien movies, or anyone who enjoys horror or monster movies in general.NOT Recommended to anyone who has eaten recently.  "},{"Title":"A good monster movie","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" I have been a fan of sommers for a long time beginning with the mummy and the mummy returns, I cant wait for Van Helsing. So one day at the video store I saw this and figured I would give it a shot. What can I say I think this movie is amazing. I don't want to spoil it for you but just no that this is better than any B monster movie I have seen before. I hope when Sommers is done with Van Helsing he will do deep rising 2. I cant wait anyway a perfect mix of action and comedy. There is also a good twist at the end but I wont give anything away. I give this movie five out of five. Even up to 2004's standards this movie rocks, with good special effects and cruel death scenes, instead of going to the show to watch Hellboy stay in and watch the much better DEEP RISING (1998). "},{"Title":"if the cash is there...we do not care","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Deep Rising is a cheesy but entertaining horror flick starring Treat Williams plays Finnigan, a mercenary who must take a team of commandos led by Hanover(Wes Studi)to an unknown area in which Finnigan's crew is getting paid as well. The team's destination lies on a cruise ship in which all of the passangers are missing and that the boat is left a mess. Along the way Finnigan's team and Hanover's Commandos meet different people along the way as they encounter a giant octupus creature that suck their victims dry. The creature takes the victims one by one until no one is left standing. Deep Rising is a cool movie with a lot of action sequences. This film was directed by the same guy who would film The Mummy(another action film).Overall, not bad. "},{"Title":"better than expected!","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  i just saw this movie about half an hour ago on DVD and it was great! This is an old fashioned monster movie with a great looking monster and lost of gore! It has a lot of suspense, i was on my seat the entire time. Time really flew by watching this one, before i knew it, it was over. It's ten times better than The Mummy, Stephen Sommers' most disappointing movie.This movie's great, trust me, go see it!  "},{"Title":"A real sinker.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  After the Abyss came out in the 80s, there was a little trend of underwater monster attack trapped people movies including mediocre thrills as Leviathan, Deep star sex and even the more recent Sphere. This movie can in a way be categorized in that list.It's about a group of villains entering a seemingly abandoned cruise ship and finding out there's an octopus-like creature that eats people by sucking out their insides.  Oh, and once great actor Treat Williams is in this too, including an extremely irritating side kick and the highly overrated Famke Janssen.All things considered, the effects are marginally decent, the monster looks pretty good, and with suspension of belief, this trash can be enjoyable enough. "},{"Title":"All I got is a wet stick of chewing gum & a breath mint. Hugely entertaining action horror film.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":" Deep Rising starts in the middle of the South China Sea as a pilot for hire John Finnegan (Treat Williams), his crew of Joey Pantucci (Kevin J. O'Connor) & his girlfriend Leila (Una Damon) ferries his paying passengers to a location 'in the middle of nowhere' which in reality turns out to be a huge $480 odd million cruise liner called the Argonautica on it's maiden voyage. As they near the Argonautica things turn sour as they hit a speedboat & their passengers turn nasty, lead by mercenary Hanover (Wes Studi) who are about to rob the Argonautica. Leila & one of Hanover's men named Billy (Clint Curtis) stay behind to repair the boat as Finnegan, Joey, Hanover & the rest of his team board the Argonautica & find it completely deserted & in a mess with blood smeared everywhere. Hanover sends two of his men, T-Ray (Trevor Goddard) & Mamooli (Cliff Curtis) with Finnegan & Joey to find spare parts to repair the boat while he & the rest of his team, Vivo (Djimon Hounsou), Mulligan (Jason Flemyng) & Mason (Clifton Powell) try to break into the Argonautica's vaults where they find professional thief Trillian St. James (Famke Janssen) & Vivo is killed by the Argonautica's designer a terrified Simon Canton (Anthony Heald) & Captain Atherton (Derrick O'Connor) who both warn of 'things' that have infested the ship. It's not long before they encounter one of these 'things' which turn out to be slimy snake like sea creatures that have eaten the rest of the passengers & crew, when an elevator they are travelling in sends them to the very bowls of the Argonautica they must work together to battle their way up floor by floor & hopefully back to Finnegans boat & possible safety but no-one said it would be easy...Written & directed by Stephen Sommers I love Deep Rising, I think it's a terrific roller-coaster ride of thrills, spills & chills! The script could easily be described as a cross between Aliens (1986) with a group of heavily armed men running around dark pipe laden corridors, Titanic (1997) being set on a huge ship that is sinking & just about any 50's or 60's giant monster film. There are plenty of guns, explosions, chases including an outrageous sequence which I love when Williams & Janssen are chased by huge slimy tentacles while speeding through the Argonautica's flooded corridors on a jet-ski, huge monsters, overblown special effects, one liners & plenty of blood & gore. Deep Rising is a pure popcorn film not to be taken seriously, it's pure Hollywood entertainment to just sit back with a coke & enjoy one cool set piece after another! The characters are a little clichéd but I didn't mind too much & I felt the film still worked well. The one aspect of Deep Rising I don't like is it's 100 plus minute running time, I think it drags in a couple of places & I'd have preferred a slightly tighter film that maybe ran 10 or so minutes shorter. I still can't quite decide whether I liked the ending or not though. With an estimated budget of $45,000,000 Deep Rising has that Hollywood polish about it, the widescreen cinematography is great, the CGI monsters & effects are great, the interior of the Argonautica is as plush, detailed & luxurious as you would hope for, the production design is fine including some cool looking guns & the music by Jerry Goldsmith ranges from catchy to bland. Deep Rising features some nice gore with a partially digested man with half his head missing a high point, there are plenty of flesh encrusted skeletons & someone gets an axe stuck in his forehead. The monsters themselves are cool & the big one at the end is worth waiting for in my opinion. The acting was OK & not much more but then what did you expect? I found Kevin J. O'Connor as the comedy relief a little annoying at times but he didn't spoil things that much, Williams as the hero is a bit bland but was OK & Janssen as the girl provides the good looks & glamour. Overall I think Deep Rising is a terrific film if you take it for what it is, a pure unashamed crowd pleasing action heavy horror film. A absolute favourite of mine & a bit of a guilty pleasure, I highly recommend Deep Rising but just remember to just go with it & have fun! "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Yuck. The perfect word to try and describe my response to you after seeing this movie. Not only was the gore just way over the top, cheesy, (but nonetheless stomach-churning) but the acting and the movie in general was downright terrible. The characters were shallow, one-note drones who blindly stumbled through the scenes, occasionally getting picked off by a slimy, eel-like beast to be digested alive.  I found myself cheering on the anonymous sea-monster, 'cause I could hardly bear the rantings of the characters any longer. Call me stupid for not seeing a b-movie coming from the beginning, but I was expecting something along the lines of your general, run-of-the-mill sci-fi thriller. I was sick to my stomach after watching this film, probably because I was expecting a little more taste and a little less of such needless B-movie junk such as half-digested, still-alive humans falling from the guts of mutant squid tentacles. Yummy. ((sure, that was a spoiler, but for those of you who just wanna watch this movie for it's shock-value, there's a lot more where that came from)) "},{"Title":"Entertaining action flick falls short of the mark","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Treat Williams is miscast as the standard zero to hero character in this entertaining horror action flick that never really hits the spot.Deep Rising is Stephen Sommer's first real foray into the big budget action genre that he would later go on to return to with the hugely entertaining Mummy series, and this year's action extravaganza, Van Helsing. From a big budget action flick, you don't expect character development or to think too much, and this film doesn't feature much character development or room for thought. However, from a big budget action flick, you also expect to be entertained, and that is where this movie somewhat falls short. That's not to say that this movie is boring, it certainly isn't, but it's very methodical and therefore predictable, and therefore it's entertainment impact is lessened somewhat. The movie also manages to hit all the standard clichés of the genre, especially when it comes to the characters; we have the previously mentioned everyday man that becomes a hero, then we've got the (very) annoying sidekick, the well equipped woman, the megalomaniac, money hungry bad guy, the emotionless terrorist team leader, and a whole motley crew of terrorists from different parts of the world. The annoying sidekick in this movie is most certainly a contender for the most annoying character in a movie, ever. The shrieking noise that he makes in the movie is as irritating as it is unrealistic. The movie is tongue in cheek, and this character is obviously there to provide humour, but I'm not laughing, and this film would have been vastly superior either without him, or with a very toned down version of him.The effects in Deep Rising are some of the worst CGI I've ever seen. The monsters don't look like they belong in the environment at all, and basically just look as if someone with a computer has just slapped them into the environment; which is probably what did happen. The effects being terrible is somewhat forgivable as it is evident that this movie is not interested in being a good film, and is more interested in being big and entertaining.Overall, Deep rising has some nice moments; two rather horrifying ones in particular, one involving a half digested man, and the other which sees one of the team being slowly eaten spring to mind instantly; but overall it just lacks the entertaining bite that The Mummy had. Still, if you want an entertaining action flick; you could do a lot worse. "}]