[{"Title":"Brilliant Saturday Matinee Classic","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"99 out of 155 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Growing up in the 50's gave me the privilege of being one the last generations of filmgoers to enjoy the Saturday afternoon double-feature matinee experience at the neighborhood theatre. These double-features were primarily low budget sci-fi/horror epics with slender threads of plot, lovely damsels in distress (Beverly Garland, Barbara Rush), square-jawed heroes (Peter Graves, Richard Carlson) and budget monsters from Mars, the grave, melted icebergs, mad scientist's labs or atomic fallout. Well not really. The monsters were usually guys in rubber suits (Creature From The Black Lagoon, This Island Earth), or cheap trick photography (Tarantula, Attack of the 50 Ft Woman), or  `Mask and Glove' illusions (I Was A Teenage Werewolf/Frankenstein, Monster On The Campus), or, if we were really lucky, a Ray Harryhausen stop motion creation.Needless to say this wasn't great cinema, but what it WAS, was great fun. Were you scared? Not really. Did you have the need for everything to be fact-based and believable? Of course not! You went to be entertained, to let your imagination merge with the sounds and images and have a good time, laughing or screaming. Could anyone really take the monster from `It Conquered The World' seriously, or wonder whether `The Creature From The Black Lagoon' was biologically possible or if it could anatomically deflower Julie Adams? Didn't matter. Instead, you let yourself meld into the film's world and travel along for the ride.Thus whether you were on the obviously and badly animated `Angry Red Planet', or trapped with James Best on the island of dogs in make-up which were trying to pass for `The Killer Shrews', you surrendered to the magic.My heart weeps for the post `Star Wars' filmgoers, these people weaned on special effects, the MTVers and video viewers who've had their imaginations and attention spans kidnapped and are told what to see and how to interpret it. I truly am sorry. You people missed a modern day, Grade B double feature, sci-fi/horror classic called `Anaconda'. And we hadn't seen one this good since `Alien'.Being an intelligent man, I realize the futility of convincing the non-believers who can't draw from the needed background reservoir to understand, so I won't bother preaching this film's virtues or try to win you over by fact and argument. This, however, is what I will say&#133;&#133;&#133;This is a brilliant re-creation of the lost art of the 1950's double-feature horror genre; not really a homage to, more the real thing. It's `Creature From The Black Lagoon', with a really cheesy computer animated snake in place of a guy in a really cheesy rubber suit. It's a Saturday afternoon classic for people who remember and understand them. Story is great, script is great, cinematography is great, direction is great, acting is great, the women beautiful and endangered, the heroes machismo and handsome, the monster phantasmagorical, and we get a bonus surprise by one of the greatest American actors, Jon Voight, doing a magnificent over-the-top, slimy, nasty, reprehensibly heartless villain, complete with a sly wink to the audience. His performance is the key to the film. He understood the film's intent and translated it to the screen for you. If it's in your realm of understanding and experience, you get it and are able to partake in this little slice of cinema heaven.In 20 years, they'll be calling this a classic. I'm calling it one now.  "},{"Title":"Two ways of judging this movie.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"33 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  There are two ways to see this film and rate it.1 As a movie that turned out to be much worse than it intended to be. In which case it's obvious that an actor like Jon Voight would overact to try and make it look like it was intended to be bad. The special f/x, intended or not, are done with computer animation and are, in that category, the worst i've seen yet. A snake that moves like a cartoon. If it was the movieproducers' intention to make a bad movie, they would have done better to use the old fashioned special f/x, with a rubber prop.2As a movie that was, indeed, intended to be a b-movie. However, since the director Luis Llosa previously only made serious action movies like the Specialist and Sniper, i have to seriously doubt it was his intension to make a tongue-in-cheek movie. If it WAS his intention, he nearly succeeded in making a fun bad movie.Personally, there were only two things in this movie i enjoyed The voluptuous Jennifer Lopez, and the magnificently bad performance of Jon Voight, who with just the facial expressions brings a smile to your face. "},{"Title":"Little consistency","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is not as bad as some people say it is. Generally, it's pretty formulaic, but there are a few alterations on the monster movie format.A crew making a documentary set sail down a tropical river, on their way losing their fuel and, you guessed it, bumping into a big snake. There are all the usual characters here beautiful girl, villain, posh English bloke (there's always one!), working-class hero, etc. They gradually get picked off one-by-one - although guessing the next victim is so easy, it takes the fun out of it all.There are a few oddities in the consistency of the plot. Most of the killing happen in the second half of the film with the first half devoted to boring sub-plots. Curiously, the customary introduction shock is not a snake death, but a suicide. We never really find out why this has happened - after all, there is still a lot of Jennifer Lopez to be shown - and this, I think, is one of the main problems with the film. Story lines are attempted but never completed and so the audience will never gain true satisfaction from the film.Another interesting factor is Terri's boyfriend and his contribution to the story line. During a dive, he gets bitten and the crew manage to recover him. They save his life but he is still unconscious and remains so throughout most of the movie.However, the weakest character of all is the snake. Sure, it's pretty ugly, but it will never be truly terrifying as the director doesn't play on our sense of fear. We may be surprised when the snake attacks but never truly shocked.As I said before, this isn't too bad a movie (I've seen worse) - there are some moments of tension, the actors do their jobs and the special effects are far from laughable. You might want to watch this if it's shown of TV, but I wouldn't pay money to see it.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"31 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  An excellent movie. That's all to say about this movie. Excellent. It contains some of the biggest names in entertainment(Jennifer 'J-Lo' Lopez, Ice Cube, Jon Voight, and Eric Stoltz) and some actors and actresses going from good to great, just good, or not good at all(Jonathan Hyde, Kari Wuhrer, Owen Wilson, and Vincent Castellenatos). Plus there was the appearence of Danny Trejo as the poacher. Even though the cast for this movie isn't really big, it's good enough to make a good movie. Other things I found great with this movie are it's special effects and the characters themselves. Jon Voight's character says funny things, even when he doesn't mean to be funny, Ice Cube's character is just plain funny, and Jonathan Hyde's character is hilarious. As I said, this movie is excellent, no doubt about it.One more thing Anybody who's anybody should see this movie. IT'S A GREAT MOVIE!!!!9/10 "},{"Title":"Anaconda (1997)","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" It's a stupid B-Movie with enough quality to fly by, and enough camp charm to get away with such cinematic crimes. The cast play it straight, apart from Voight. I'm pretty sure he was drunk during the shooting, coming out with an inexplicable accent and a look reminiscent of Hannibal Lecter. It's ridiculous fun, with hokey CGI and animatronics. The animatronics are great and make me miss the 90s. It's a big snake shaped tube and goes from slow robotic motions, to super fast CGI. Cube and Hyde manage some, at times, adorable dialogue. Voight's presence also unites the rest of the cast, and each character gets their own heroic captain moment. Fun filled and just plain bad. I loved it. "},{"Title":"An Oscar Worthy Performance By Suzie","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Llosa's 'Anaconda' is one of the most artistically crafted films of recent times (NOT!). The story is beautifully subtle. Basically, it's about a group of filmmakers or whatever trying to make a film in the fake rainforest but they encounter an unexpected visitor who takes them towards danger (how shocking!). Of course it's nice to see a snake movie that's carried by a heroine and a villainess (played by a snake). Moreover it's the voluptuous Jennifer Lopez! It's obvious that she's very happy to play the heroine and very excited to battle a snake. The 'hero' played by Eric Stoltz, spends most of his screen time sleeping. He only takes a momentary break from his REM sleep when the heroine is in trouble for one minute, otherwise she can handle herself. Ice Cube plays the cool black guy which seems to be a necessary ingredient in such movies. Of course he doesn't die because he's too cool. Thankfully Owen Wilson does not get decapitated like what happened in 'The Haunting'. Instead, he ends up getting gobbled up. Kari Wuhrer is the potential lonely hot chick who allows the camera to focus on her endowments (which, to one's disappointment, she doesn't fully show) and of course she's killed off. Then there's John Voight as typical greedy villain, the unexpected visitor. While all the actors give almost Oscar worthy performance, it is Suzie (I hope I got the name correct) the digital snake that steals the show. This actress (assuming that it's a female since she so lustfully gobbled up Owen Wilson and throws up John Voight because he's comparatively old and unattractive) gives one of the most nuanced performances. She downplays her part so well that one really has to look hard to find a registered expression on her face and the talented Suzie just gets it all right by hissing, slithering, showing off her tongue, throwing up and lustfully swallowing just on time. Lopez could have learned a thing or two about method acting and staying in character from her mega-talented co-star. It's sad that Suzie dies in the movie because I actually wanted her to win (sorry JLo). It's also a pity that Oscars don't award digital actresses because Suzie truly gave one of the finest performances. Shame on the Oscars for not noticing this gem! People should have spoken up for her. Anyway, to sum it up, 'Anaconda' is a cheeesy (unintentional comedic) horror/thriller wannabe. Yeah, it's a crappy movie. "},{"Title":"Simply dumb fun, as only 1997 could have delivered.","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Before there was Snakes on a Plane, there was Anaconda, a Hollywood B-movie from the late 90's that is as notorious for its mixed bag of actors as it is for the gruesome snakes that populate its plot. In the film, a group of documentary film-makers traveling through the Amazon jungle picks up a mysterious man who inadvertently becomes their tour-guide on an unexpected detour. It seems the man is totally crazy and intends to capture one of the Amazon's most notorious and deadliest inhabitants The Anaconda.Despite some bad looking CGI-snakes (not bad in a good way) and a horribly mis-matched cast (J-Lo and Eric Stolz? Really?) Anaconda is simply a good, dumb time. Without a doubt, it's an utterly ridiculous film that can be insulting to your intelligence, but thankfully it knows not to overstay its welcome and the 90 minutes it takes up makes for a harmless and amusing ride. Ice Cube plays Ice Cube as he always does, while J-Lo turns in one of her more likable roles. You'll also catch Owen Wilson in one of his earliest roles, and John Voight is a pleasure to watch as he eats up the scenery. But face it, this movie is about snakes, and the titular character is the true star here. Surely, the actors on hand have done much worse, and as far as horror/b-movies about snakes, you could pick up much worse yourself. If you enjoy watching giant snakes (who inexplicably scream) stalk rappers, pop-stars and Angelina Jolie's dad, this is the flick for you. Those seeking genuine thrills, however, may find the film coming up a bit short. "},{"Title":"A bad B movie with an A level cast.","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" In this adventure thriller, a documentary film maker & his crew are attacked by a very mean & very large, laughably fake looking, CGI monster/Anaconda out in the middle of nowhere & the remaining crew must figure out how to stop it. I remember how excited I was to see this movie, especially when I saw the commercial for it on TV, it looked really good, however once I saw it on video, I was majorly disappointed, (Well actually I was bored, but I don't want to get into that here) instead of seeing a truly scary or thrilling Adventure/Horror film, I wound up seeing a really boring B movie dressed to look like an A level Hollywood production, so it could get into theaters, now I have seen my fare share of B movies & I just love them (The good ones anyways) simply because they were made with only half the budget of an over blown Hollywood production & usually turn out to be better than their big budget counter parts, sadly ANACONDA did not fall into this category, while I will give this film credit for the good acting, good directing & writing it sadly lacked, there was not one single suspenseful scene in this movie, the kills were fake looking & you never once believe that the Anaconda monster appears in the same frame with them, better than PYTHON 1 & 2, but it's really no different than they were, they were bad B movies that did not receive a theatrical run like this one. Like I said before, this is a B movie dressed to look A level, save you're money & rent something else & speaking of money, where on earth did the budget go for this movie? all there is, is one shed, a boat & loads of water in the picture, it could not have went into special effects & wardrobe that's for sure! Followed by the much better, in name only sequel, ANACONDAS HUNT FOR THE BLOOD ORCHID *1/2 stars "},{"Title":"An entertaining creature feature","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Heading into the Amazon, a documentary team studying a long-lost tribe runs afoul of a hunter searching for a legendary anaconda and are forced to help him track the deadly creature.This was a decent and quite enjoyable creature feature. One of the better features here is the rather impressive pace that runs throughout here, as this one runs along pretty quickly with the introduction getting started immediately, picking up the hunter is right after that and the snake attacks carry the action throughout the rest of the film. Those action scenes are all quite fun, from the opening poacher attack, the search on the abandoned boat and the first battle with the creature as they try to wrangle the water-bound snake from their boat only for the resulting chaos it it's escape to set the stage for its' later scenes. That is the film's best part which is the final half hour as there's a large amount of ambushes and attacks here, from the trap at the waterfall where there's the fun water-chase with the creature coming after the swimmers in the water trying to dislodge the boat before finally getting to the spectacular waterfall confrontation catching the fleeing victim in mid-air before crashing into the boat below to the greater fun of the big chase through the abandoned warehouse. From the hunter's trap and eventual escape to running through the different levels with the creature continually crashing through the surroundings and finally getting rid of the massive snake in a fiery blast, this packs a large amount of action, suspense and rather impressive moments into it. Along with the enjoyable animatronic special effects for the snake, these are more than enough to hold off the few flaws in here. One of the bigger flaws is the fact that the first half here plays off as more of an adventure film about the exploration of the Amazon who stumbles upon a suspicious snake-hunter who alters their course for his own needs. None of this is handled with the sense of urgency in getting the snake out in a film about a giant killer snake as it moves the film along the needles detours simply to get the point across aren't all that tied into the exploits of a creature feature. There's also the films' tendency to go a little overboard with the special effects here as the use of the CGI snake isn't nearly as convincing as the puppets, act way too slick and have very little depth to it as the performed actions during these scenes give away its' origins. It's not enough to hold this one down, but the other problems here is where the flaws are.Rated PG-13 Violence, Graphic Language and some mild animal deaths. "},{"Title":"An insult to anacondas...","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Now, I am a snake lover.  I love snakes of all kinds, even when they are in my house.  It pains me to kill them or see them killed.  And when I heard this movie would be out, I thought Uh oh.  But I watched it anyway.  Please beat me.  Allow me to point out everything that went wrong with this tripe.  And these are spoilers, by the way.1)  Anacondas have never gotten any bigger than 40 feet on record.  How big was this one?2)  An anaconda is a very muscular predator.  It can kill a crocodile by SUFFOCATION NOT BONE CRUSHING.  Any snake, as a matter of fact, does not have the power to crush bones or pop veins.  They just don't.  They just suffocate their prey by compressing their lungs and windpipe.3)  Although they are very stong, it is impossible for the snake to pick up a human being, lift it up, and swallow it upright.  They can't.  It has to do with physics and biology.4)  It takes a snake a very long time to swallow its dinner.  It can take up to an hour for it to swallow a crocodile.  And that means that it would take nearly 3/4 of an hour to swallow these people.  If it felt compelled to go after them, first of all.5)  A SNAKE IS NOT A FISH.  It cannot stay under water for that long, and it does not go after the smell of blood.  A snake hunts by sight and the smell of the animal.  They made this snake out to be a shark.  And even if they did go after blood, that monkey was dead.  They go after movement.6)  A snake will vomit its food if it feels threatened.  It serves a confusion tactic for enemies.  Did this snake feel threatened?  No.  And when they do vomit, it does not fly out like that guy did.7)  Do you know how long it takes a snake to digest a meal?  When a python eats a boar, it goes without food for almost a year.  That means that that anaconda would be pretty well-fed after the first victim.8)  An anaconda does not kill for the fun of it.  They leave that to humans.9)  An anaconda will not let go of its current prey, which is still alive, and go after something dead.  They know better.10)  An anaconda can climb trees and move very quickly.  They do not fly up pipes.11)  And, lastly, an anaconda is not invincible.  I think shooting it in the head will do it in.  You will not need to torch it and take a pick-axe to its head.This was tripe, as I said before.  Do not watch this.  Just to tell you how bad it is, I think that it was pretty worthy of the MST3K bunch. "}{"Title":"Snake lovers beware","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"28 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Erik Stolz must have owed someone a favor. But he was lucky; he was unconscious for most of the movie. I wish I was! The scene that made me cringe the most was the snake fishing scene where Jon Voigt has the Jaws moment. I know it was put in on purpose but it just comes off stupid.And it doesn't matter too much that there was a lot of snake fact errors (like the speedy snake chase - you can walk faster than any anaconda can slither). Jaws had it share if inaccuracies but it was still a gripping movie.This movie just fell into the big monster is chased by the hunter. Throw in a little J-Lo to spice it up.Note to IMDb - the sequel took place in Borneo not the first one. And the cat in the opening scene was a black jaguar, not a tiger. "},{"Title":"Snake-tastic","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda comes off better than just an action horror film. Yes it's a horror, pick one by one off victim affair, but it actually comes off better than others of it's type. It's very suspenseful, and doesn't go straight into the kill. No we're left in great suspense, where at the start, a suicide of a familiar ugly Mexican dude holds us over, prefore to the movie's story. A doco crew led by Stoltz, again miscast, are out to catch the largest Anaconda, and film it. Good luck with that, as they never anticipated the monstrosity of the one, lurking around the rivers of the Amazon. Owen Wilson, before becoming known, plays a serious role here too, and Jon Voight shows great menace as a rich snake hunter/cold blooded psychopath, in one shocking breakneck scene, ending one of the crew while J Lo as Stoltz's girlfriend, turns up the sexy heat. Watching this reptile go nuts is half the fun of the film, to see something this big is truly eye popping, Voight while being suffocated by it, actually winks before he expires. Yes it is a bit far fetched, but you go into these movies to be scared a thrilled, and the films succeeds in both, as to that awful Snakes On A Plane. Truly a worthwhile view if not having seen this original, which in almost nearly every case, you can't beat. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Cast & Fun Film...","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" 'Anaconda' (1997) is headlined by a brilliant cast that wouldn't normally be collected for a production of this quality/genre (kudos to the casting crew!). However, its the Anaconda that's supposed to be the real star here. Unfortunately, the snake's CGI isn't quite up to the par of the passable animatronics, so its rarely able to pass itself off as believable, but the remainder of the cinematography is rich & luscious. Additionally, the plot/premise are let down by an loose & inconsistent script, mediocre editing (continuity errors galore!), & direction that could have gotten more out of this cast/production; 'Anaconda' however, still views as thoroughly enjoyable entertainment with great (if not campy) acting, & somewhat thrilling adventure & suspenseful action. Although the level of cast says otherwise, this is no Academy/AFI experience. Instead, what you view here, is your better than average light horror, thriller, action, adventure film that is perfect for a home matinée on the weekend, or an intimate midnight view on a dark & rainy night. 'Anaconda' is therefore recommended for light monster/horror genre fans & for the casual horror/thriller genre enthusiast. For similar themes consider watching 'Alligator' (1980); 'Python' (2000); 'Anaconda (2) The Hunt for the Blood Orchid' (2004); 'Lake Placid' (1999); & 'Komodo' (2000). Also consider 'Crocodile' (2000); 'Crocodile 2' (2001); 'Python' (2000); 'Venomous' (2001); 'Boa' (2002); 'Congo' (1995); 'The Relic' (1997); 'Mimic' (1997); Snake Woman' (2005); 'Boa vs. Python' (2004); & 'Snake Island' (2002). "},{"Title":"A very underrated film","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" When a documentary crew traveling through the Amazon jungle, picks up a stranded man, they are unaware of the trouble that will occur. This stranger's hobby is to capture the giant Anaconda snake, and plans to continue targeting it on their boat, by any means necessary.Positives - The acting was very good but that of course was no surprise when you look at the names of the actors. - I really liked the start with the guy fleeing from the anaconda and we do not see it to keep the suspense. - The anaconda looked scary although the effects were quite bad. - The end was quite something you would not expect and i really liked it. - The best thing about anaconda is that it creates a suspenseful atmosphere that not many creature film has done also.Negatives - The anaconda effects are at times bad, but this barely changes my opinion about the movie. - You could expect what was going to happen in the next scene almost all the time in the film.Overall 8,5/10 "},{"Title":"A Scary Pop Out Snake Movie!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This Movie The Snake Graphics Looked So Good! I Thought That The Snake Was Real! I Give It A 10/10! This Movie Was Great! I'll Give The Actors A Bravo! And The Computer Graphics People A Bravo Too! This Movie Was Awesome! "},{"Title":"Fun Creature Feature","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda is one of those movies that is more fun than it has a right to be. The storyline is absurd, the acting is adequate at best, and the direction repeatedly rips off of other movies. But Anaconda is an entertaining ride if you can get past the deficiencies.In a way, Anaconda is like a slasher movie. The movies starts out with a relatively numerous cast, gets them to strut their stuff while making them appear as beautiful as possible, and then have the killer/monster pick them off one by one. However, instead of a masked knife-wielding psychopath, we have a few very big snakes.A film crew is going on location to film a documentary about the mysterious Shirishama tribe of the Amazon. Led by the director Terri Flores (Jennifer Lopez) and the anthropologist, Dr. Steven Cale (Eric Stolz), the trip seems to be going fine. Then they rescue a stranded man named Paul Sarone (Jon Voight), and things start to go bad...REALLY bad.In a movie like this, it's not important (nor necessarily expected) to have good performances. However, the audience has to care about whether they live or die. Save for Terri and Danny (Ice Cube), that doesn't really happen. Still, Anaconda boasts one great performance Voight. Sarone is creepy in the true jungle adventure way. Vile, disgusting, psychotic, or any other number of malevolent adjectives could describe Sarone. The rest of the cast doesn't fare better. Lopez is pretty to look at, but there's no spark or energy in her performance. Ice Cube has plenty of attitude, but still manages to be likable. Jonathan Hyde broadens his range, albeit slightly. He's still a pompous British snob, but he's not a one-note character. Owen Wilson (an actor whom I never liked) is miscast, and Kari Wuhrer is awful.The best thing about Anaconda is the atmosphere. The jungle is gorgeous, but ominous. Luis Llosa knows how to capture it just so; you can feel the heat and humidity, but he knows this is a action/horror movie, not a National Geographic feature, so he makes it a creepy place when it needs to be. He repeatedly steals from other movies, specifically, Jaws, but the techniques still work. It also helps that for the most part, the special effects work.Anaconda is a lot of fun (why it has such a notorious reputation is beyond me). Take her for a spin! "},{"Title":"This movie actually inspired me to go to the rain forest!","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" No lie, I actually went on a vacation to Costa Rica almost solely because this movie made the rain forest seem so kick ass. This could possibly be my favorite movie for many reasons. Let's talk about the characters.Paul Sarone He could possibly be my favorite character in any movie. This guy speaks with the sweetest accent. He catches fish river style. He kills people with his legs WHILE TIED UP! He gets with J LO besides being about 30 years older. And, he gets eaten by and anaconda, spit up, and lives. I have no doubt Paul Sarone is still out there in the Anaconda universe waiting for A3! Terri Flores Absoletuly my favorite one of J LO's roles. She's the world's hottest director out to film the Shirashama while making sure not to upset the ecological balance of the river by letting Sarone use his dynamite. In my opinion, only her Sarone and Ice Cube should have been left alive in the end (though it would have been a hoot trying to see the Anaconda swallow that ass).Ice Cube I think Ice Cube is freaking sweet in this movie. He gets stabbed in the leg but keeps on trucking and makes sure to make a witty comment while killing snakes. Bitch--priceless.Hole In Neck Man Anaconda's only lowlight is that this idiot lives. I think he should have been stabbed in the neck with his own dart in that one scene and then suffocated painfully in front of all.Baby Bird I must thank her for giving me one of the best moments in cinematic history, her death while being strangled by Sarone's legs. Brilliant! Owen Wilson I'm so glad that hippie gets it good.Westridge I'm so glad that dude gets killed so uselessly and painfully. He earned it.Mateo Was he even in this movie. Oh yeah, he gets eaten after about 15 minutes, almost as useless a character as the poacher.Anaconda He is one bad ass monster. He gets shot, and lives. He gets blown up, and lives. He gets light on fire, and lives. How does he die? Only one way. By hearing the word Bitch obviously. But of course he's back in the sequel.Overall, this movie rocks. It is unmissable and one of the best movies ever made. Come quickly A3 and bring Sarone with you. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez Tames a Snake?","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Being a big fan of Jennifer Lopez, Angel Eyes,'01, I could not resist viewing this horror film and the horrors of a snake you have never seen before just hugging and hugging the entire cast to DEATH. Ice Cube, Friday after Next,'02, was a great supporting actor who had a hard time trying to keep Jennifer Lopez out of harms way. Jon Voight,Zoolander,'01, played a real real bad character who simply loved snakes and was a complete Snake himself through out the entire film. If you hate snakes in any way, this film will keep you on the edge of your seat in more ways than one. A great entertaining film because it has the charm of Jennifer Lopez, however, her charm does not seem to tame the Big SNAKE. "},{"Title":"Intentionally bad, or unintentionally successful?","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I didn't truly start enjoying Anaconda until the final forty minutes of the film. Then once I saw those minutes, I began to enjoy most of the film. It's difficult to do a creature feature well, and I think the film is being unintentionally funny a lot of the time. Especially when the actors it's boasting are Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube. There's almost more to laugh at than be scared of.I have no problem at all with Lopez and Ice Cube. I haven't seen a lot of Jennifer Lopez's work, and I adore Ice Cube in pretty much everything he's in. He's one of those actors where if he's in a bad movie he himself isn't bad the movie, the directing, the screenplay, or whatever setback is bad. I'm just saying that when you see those two playing a couple in a horror film it's hard to take it seriously. Thankfully - they're not the reason this film isn't perfect.The story revolves around a documentary crew, Terri (Lopez), Danny (Cube), Denise (Kari), Gary (Wilson), Warren (Hyde), and Steven (Stoltz), that venture out into the jungle hoping to garner footage of a rare tribe called Shirishama. While traveling on the Amazon River, the crew finds a stranded boater named Sarone (Voight) who knows about the tribe, but acts very unsettling throughout most of the first half.Turns out that Sarone is searching for an anaconda, and is hoping to catch one alive in order to obtain a very large sum of money. He gets the whole crew involved, and doesn't really care who lives or who dies. The thought of being out in the middle of the jungle is creepy - yet it proposes a good campy quality Anaconda hits a high note with.Background scenery is pushed to the foreground here. We get beautiful shots of swamps (yes, swamps), incredible angles of trees, and even some very eerie and suspenseful underwater shots. Director Luis Llosa explores every possible angle of the setting so that not only is this a creepy B movie, but a stylish one as well.When it comes to the snake - the film begins to lose some of its redeeming qualities. There is a scene where very many snakes flood the boat. Unable to distinguish real from fake due to the small stature of the beasts, my only guess is that they were in fact real. When the anaconda makes his first appearance, it looks undeniably animatronic and the CGI used when the beast swallows its first prey is pathetic. Anaconda was made with a budget over $40 million, so this snake's execution is one of two things (1) maybe the hefty budget didn't get them very far after all, or (2, the much plausible explanation) it was supposed to look cheap and fake to give a nod to old creature-features we would've seen Saturday at 1030pm on Svengoolie.Jon Voight is probably the highest point in the film. His unsettling approach to the crew rubs off on the audience almost making them a little scared as well. His face alone reminds me of Gary Busey on a bad day, or Nick Nolte after one too many. The other members of the documentary crew, like Ice Cube and Owen Wilson, are severely underused, and but their presence is enough for personal satisfaction.The final scene where its two on one with the anaconda is great popcorn fun, and after the film you feel you've spent an hour and a half back in time. Unfortunately, Anaconda was blown out of proportion once the sequel came. After the first two theatrical films were released, the name and story became a Syfy franchise. Currently, in 2011, we have four Anaconda films including this one. I'm sure in five years we'll have two more to go along with it. The bad thing about a good B movie idea is it can be abused with a single sequel.Starring Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, Jon Voight, Eric Stoltz, Owen Wilson, Jonathan Hyde, and Kari Wuhrer. Directed by Luis Llosa. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Nothing to do, I do not agree with the opinions expressed in narrowing site. It 'a film sympathetic, good but not a masterpiece. His focus is on the destructive power of this snake, apparently not convinced victor films. It 'a movie I saw a lot as a child together with a poltergeist trip to the borders of reality is unpleasant, it may be fine even if the special effects were those who were. The first episode is mythical, the film has its charm. It reminds me of the very films that do not know the stories of the crypt films are sympathetic to laugh. It can be fine even though I saw some time ago, is not evil It is good if we reject this film should reject half of the American films including action,. The Votic 4 is too low, give them a chance as you are tough. "}{"Title":"You have never seen anything like this","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I had been warned about this movie. Friends had told me that it was one of the worst pieces of tat ever foisted upon the movie-going public, and that its staggering ineptitude in every department made Gigli look like Citizen Kane. They were right - this is perhaps the worst studio movie I have ever seen in my life (and yes, I have seen Gigli). And you know what? It's great! This film has everything! Owen Wilson gets eaten alive by a giant snake, and we later see the snake with him inside it - with his facial features imprinted on its skin! It has Jonathan Hyde as the required Smarmy Brit (he gets eaten too, obviously). It was Kari Wuhrer doing, well, nothing very much. Best of all, Eric Stoltz gets bitten by a jungle insect after about 10 minutes, goes into a coma and disappears for the rest of the movie - only to pop back up at a vital moment to whack someone over the head, then immediately fall asleep again! We see Stoltz get a tracheotomy on screen, and yes, that is every bit as icky as it sounds.The snake itself is great in longshot, not so scary in closeup, and the numerous headshots of the thing should really have been edited out, because they look like something you could buy for a fiver at Toys R Us. But then the snake isn't the real monster here. That honour goes to Jon Voight, giving the most amazing performance of his life, maybe of anyone's life.To put this into context, this is an Oscar-winning actor, star of such classic films as Midnight Cowboy and Catch-22. This is not some local theatre amateur, this is one of the most respected actors in the world. And his performance is a long series of sneering, gurning, lip-curling, sniffing, sniggering lunacy. With a very silly accent, too. His expression as Stoltz gets bitten by that pesky insect is a thing to behold, perhaps the most bizarre facial expression I have ever seen on a human being. Later on Voight gets eaten by the snake and then regurgitated, half-digested but still alive (yeah, that's pretty icky too) and he winks at J-Lo before he keels over, dead at last. Without Voight, this movie would be mediocre at best; with him, it's almost a thing of beauty, a rare trip into a land so over-the-top that it can't even see the top, way down there. It's great fun if you're in the right mood, but even if you don't like the sound of it, you have to see it. You simply will not believe it otherwise. "},{"Title":"Great movie! Jon Voight is excellent!","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This film, Anaconda is a very good film in My opinion. The cast is different and they all acted well which this cast includes Jon Voight, Eric Stoltz, Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, Jonathan Hyde, Owen Wilson, and Kari Wuhrer. As I said all of the actors are good but Voight's Paul Sarone is one of the coolest and meanest I have ever seen and he is one of My favorite villains in a movie. Those looks he gets on his face are something else! He is enough to scare a super hero! I think that this is Voight's best role! The music by Randy Edelman is in My opinion one of the best musical scores for a movie. The snakes look very realistic and the directing by Luis Llosa is very good. I have always like this film because of its great acting by Jon Voight, the special effects, great musical score, and lots of excitement! If you like Jon Voight, J. Lo, giant snake movies then I strongly recommend Anaconda!  "},{"Title":"Excellent horror/adventure/thriller with a fantastic performance from Jon Voight","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Dr. Steven Cale (Eric Stoltz) is leading a documentary film crew deep into the Amazon to film the infamous, rarely observed Shirishama Indian tribe. On the way, they run into a shipwrecked Paul Sarone (Jon Voight), a bizarre character who claims to be an Paraguayan priest-in-training turned snake hunter. Although oddly captivating, there's something fishy about Sarone, who claims to have first-hand knowledge of the Shirishama. Is he helping them out or leading them into danger? Although much maligned by some genre fans, Anaconda deserves accolades. While those looking for strict realism might be disappointed, Anaconda is a brilliant, genre-bending film, with just the right blend of beautiful cinematography, excellent but quirky performances, well directed and edited suspense and action scenes, and compelling monsters--both serpentine and human.The construction of the film is relatively simple--it is basically a Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954)-styled horror/thriller/adventure film. Director Luis Llosa is a Roger Corman alumnus; the depth of Anaconda's characterizations and structure may seem surprising in light of its pulpy exterior.The ensemble cast is fantastic, and I especially love Jon Voight's performance, which to me is Oscar-caliber. Voight turns out to be a snake of a man, and he's just as much if not more the villain of the film. Everything about him is enigmatic, charismatic and threatening--all at the same time, even including his mannerisms and strange accent, which belies his cover story.Keeping with snakes as a theme, Llosa structured the film so that it begins with wide Amazonian vistas but gradually narrows its scope&#151;visually/environmentally and with classic horror-styled Ten Little Indians knockoffs--becoming tight, claustrophobic, and horrifically constricting.But of course there are real snakes in the film, by way of an effective combination of animatronics, CGI and live, smaller snakes. Two animatronic snakes were made, costing millions--one 25 feet long, one 40 feet long, and each weighing at least 1000 pounds. Animatronics and CGI might not sound like something that would come across as provoking compelling thrills for an audience, but thanks to the deftness of the effects crew and the skill of the actors, the attack scenes are tense and enthralling. Unlike many modern films, Llosa keeps the action crisp, well choreographed, continuous and well lit. Of course, the performances were aided by the fact that the snakes, although animatronic, really were dangerous to the actors--a wrong move (or one electronics glitch--the mechanical beasties had at least a hundred mechanisms a piece, controlled by computers) could result in being crushed by what amounted to a medium-sized truck.If that wasn't exotic and dangerous enough, Llosa had the cast and a crew of 200 flown down to the Amazon for a five-week shoot. There are scenes in which tens of real snakes were used, many of which subsequently got lost in the set, to the dismay of some snake-fearing cast members. This aided in depicting the increasing emotional tension throughout the film that is its driving force. The Amazon shoot also provided frequently beautiful cinematographic backgrounds.Although superficially, Anaconda seems to be a thin, effects-heavy monster movie, Llosa and crew made an excellent film by sticking to the basics--telling a great story with great actors who have chemistry together, and showing them working through a series of conflicts and manipulations with often-tragic results. Don't let the naysayers put you off of this one. "},{"Title":"Big Snake Yawn.","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" It's pretty damn difficult to impress even the most enthusiast and undemanding horror audiences with a 40 ft. long animatronic snake that &#150; apart from looking silly &#150; also screams at its victims. And yet, strangely enough, the CGI effects & visuals are actually the most pleasing aspects to endure whilst watching Anaconda. The hopelessly muddled script and the awful performances (coming from a prominent ensemble cast, I may add) form the real disaster here. This could have been a pretty cool big animal creature-feature IF ONLY the creators tried a to make it look less like big-budgeted studio blockbuster and more like an unpretentious and cheesy B-movie! Jon Voight surely seemed to think he was involved in such a production, as his performance is permanently over-the-top and almost deliberately bad. Voight blinks ridiculously all the time and talks in an unidentifiable accent, while the rest of the cast attempts to speak their lines straight-faced and plausible. It's almost pitiful to behold. A seven-headed film crew sails down the mighty Amazon river, hoping to shoot a breakthrough documentary about a nearly extinct tribe of natives. Instead of primitive savages, they encounter a stranded adventurer who claims to know all the dangers of the Amazon jungle and offers to be their guide. Patiently and strategically, he (Paul Sarone) directs the crew towards the territory of the horrific man-eating anaconda. After (far too) many lame and predictable false alarm sequences, the big computer-engineered snake finally begins to reduce the number of passengers on the boat. The grotesque action sequences are okay, I guess, but the interactions between the stereotypical characters are totally unbelievable. Eric Stolz (as the expedition's leader) lies unconscious most of the time, Ice Cube stares at the animals in the jungle as they were his gangster enemies from the ghetto, Owen Wilson looks like he wants to ride the anaconda as it was a rodeo-bull and &#150; worst of all &#150; Jonathan Hyde plays the obnoxious British chap who even carries on golfing after several people have died. As strange as it sounds, Jennifer Lopez honestly plays the most convincing character and gives away the best performance. The plot meanders needlessly and contains several situations that are stupid and inexplicable, like unnatural barricades in the middle of the godforsaken jungle and dynamite-induced snake showers. Luis Llosa's direction is uninspired but at least Bill Butler's camera captures some enchanting images of the South American jungles. Despite having appeared in over 40 movies already, Danny Trejo's role is just a miserable cameo. "},{"Title":"'50s style monster flick with tongue in cheek and an exciting plot","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This underrated monster movie came out around the same time as THE RELIC and both films got poor reviews. I happened to see this at the cinema back in '97 and I remember being distinctly underwhelmed by the film. After catching it on television again last night, my opinion has radically changed. While it may be a cheesy film with bad acting and poor special effects, the makers of this film obviously have an affection for B movies and, as one reviewer on the IMDb noted, there is definitely an old-fashioned feel to it, it's a bit like a '50s giant monster movie updated to the present day. On retrospect, I enjoyed this far more than the disappointing and hugely generic film that was THE RELIC, and after watching many of the recent so-called horror films on release, I've come to appreciate this for what it is  a fun, shallow and fast-paced little film that delivers the goods on the gore front.While it's not a particularly bloody film, many of the deaths by snake are gooey and gruesome in the extreme. We watch the victims as they get slowly crushed and their bones break out, and then watch as their blubbery bodies are digested by the snake. In the film's big moment, Jon Voight is eaten, only to be regurgitated as a half-eaten mess moments later. Just when you thought it couldn't get any better, his corpse winks! The plot is a typically contrived and generic one, but as I mentioned it's fast paced so you don't have time to dwell on the holes. The acting is pretty bad, but again that's typical for a film of this variety - what's not typical is that most of the actors here are famous, or have become famous since. Jennifer Lopez takes the lead and frankly I can't see what all the fuss is about, to me she's unattractive and a bad actress to boot. Joining her are Eric Stoltz in a nothing role, and he spends most of the film in a coma after eating a deadly wasp (strangely, though, he doesn't die!). Ice Cube is the likable, gruff and unlikely hero, a feat he pulled off again in '99s THREE KINGS. Jonathan Hyde plays an Englishman in a role that borders on the offensively stereotypical - if we British aren't depicted as bad guys, then must we all have stupid accents and be figures of ridicule with our silly stiff upper lip type characters? Bad acting awards go to Jon Voight for his supremely hammy portrayal of the film's villain, a lip-curling, eye-winking performance which I found to be hilarious - he's great, having a laugh, and miles away from the boringly serious characters he played in films like Deliverance. A pre-stardom Owen Wilson is pretty bland, and Kari Wuhrer is all glamour and no intelligence. Eagle-eyed viewers may spot FROM DUSK TILL DAWN's vampire bartender Danny Trejo as a snake victim whose suicide kicks the film off.Now, for the special effects, which are a mixture of CGI and animatronics. The animatronics are great, and very lifelike. The CGI is not so, but at least it looks pretty as we watch the snake swirl through the air and stuff. I've seen a lot worse in more recent films, and at least you can see the effort that's gone into this creation to try and make it look as spectacular as possible. Speaking of spectacular, there is the requisite explosive finale which manages to be quite exciting as things go. ANACONDA is, to me, a welcome monster movie from a time when most horror films were slashers squarely aimed at a teenage audience. Thankfully, this film has no teenagers and no masked killers. That, the fun monster and the change of location (an authentic-looking Amazon jungle) make this one to watch again and again for me. "},{"Title":"A silly creature feature","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" If you believe in guilty pleasures, then this one is one of my favorites. As a kid, I used to watch this movie endlessly and it has been imprinted in my mind. It's crazy because I know this movie is bad with its cheap props, lazy direction, not so good effects, and of course Jon Voight and whatever it is he was doing in this movie, but I still have fun with this movie every time.Good What I will say that is actually genuinely still good for me are the effects and the music. The CG not so much, but the practical animatronics are still solid and the music is effective. Jon Voight's performance while hammy is always entertaining to watch and Frank Welker is the voice of the anaconda and that's really cool.Bad It's a terribly made movie sometimes. The editing is choppy, the props are obviously fake, there's some REALLY obvious technical goofs, and the characters are just fodder.Overall, while it is a bad movie, it is highly enjoyable if you dig on creature features. If you want to have a good time laughing at Jon Voight's facial expressions, then this is your movie. "},{"Title":"Cheese in the jungle","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" At one time Werner Herzog tried to bring opera/commerce to the jungles of the Amazon with his film Fitzcarraldo, which featured as its primary set piece a boat being dragged over a mountain side. Gone are those days; indeed fifteen years after that in 1997 audiences got just a quick scene of opera being blared in the jungle - this comes after Ice Cube's hippity hop has played, which actually isn't that bad - while Jon Voight hijacks a small boat of documentary filmmakers (through stealth) to hunt after giant snakes. So it goes.Anaconda was a movie I watched many times when it was on HBO. I probably recognized then it was trash, but it was highly watchable trash, with convincing performances (for what they're asked to do) and some high-grade cheesy lines and mannerisms. Seeing it again today, it holds up as a B-movie blow-out, and is dated mostly by its bad CGI of snakes and has one too many climaxes for comfort. It's one thing when Fatal Attraction does it, but this...It's highly mockable (i.e. Rifftrax took it on live this year), but perhaps the filmmakers knew it? The actors don't seem to, certainly not hapless Owen Wilson - or maybe Voight does, and in his way it's one of the few times, albeit in a total cartoonish performance where he has practically the same grimacing facial expression with Paraguaian accent from start to finish - and maybe that helps elevate it. It's still watchable... which is about the best to say about it, with some competent direction helping along the way - along with some befuddling choices like a Snake-POV camera.Maybe it's best today as a party movie turn it on, have some brews, and laugh at how that snake just seems to keep coming back and back again (and if it's more than one giant snake, why is it such a big deal?) Oh well... sequels came of this as well. "},{"Title":"How could you forget about the wasp?","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Those who have Rated this a Bad Movie, and there are Legions, forgot how to have Fun at the Movies. There are Thrills and Chills in this Big-Budget B-Movie with Enough Self Deprecating Humor and Laughs at the Critics that have Laughed at this Elaborate Excursion along the Snake Like Amazon River. The Atmosphere of the Jungle Cruise is Filmed with a Colorful and Steamy Palette a Plenty. The Boat is Populated with all sorts of Characters, a Slice of Humanity that is Clichéd and Categorized as a Documentary Crew on the Hunt for Their Big Break.It's a Quirky Bunch, all Acted Appropriately within the Confines of the Corny Script. Jon Voight gets the Most Attention, as should be, because He is Him without a Soul. A Failed Seminary Student that was Seduced by the Most Symbolic of Satan and has Determined to Kill His Demon.Voight has a Good Time Overacting and with a Wink Delivers one of the Better Villains to Grace this Type of Cinematic Trash in a Long Time. He Literally Out Slimes the Anaconda. Nothing here is to be Taken Seriously and Snake Aficionados have Ranted All About its Scientific Inaccuracies. Really. This is a Monster Movie and Factual Representations are Thrown Overboard from the First Frame. Who Cares about the Silliness? It's All In for the Sake of Snake Entertainment.Underrated in the Extreme this is a Fantastic Fantasy Film that Delivers the Goods. Almost Everyone is Killed in the Most Horrific of Ways and even if They Survive it is Not Without an Experience of Exploitation that the Movie puts Them through. Jennifer Lopez, Eric Stoltz, Owen Wilson, Jonathan Hyde, and Ice Cube are along for the Ride of a Lifetime. See who Survives. Note...Forget the charmless Sequels. "},{"Title":"A Secret Favorite","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Secret, because who would otherwise admit to liking this guilty pleasure? It is closest to Creature from the Black Lagoon in its structure a trip down the Amazon of an ill-assorted group, a search for an elusive creature, or in this case, at first at least, the People of the Mist; some red shirt people; and Jon Voight playing the Nestor Paiva sort of role of the guy who's been on the river too long--and a would-be priest, no less. The virtues of the film include, most importantly, Voight's funny and outrageous performance (do Paraguayans sound like that?!). The beautiful Jennifer Lopez is eye candy. There is also the stuffy English narrator of the documentary they are making and Owen Wilson in his usual feckless character mode. And of course there is the titular character and star of the show. Altogether it's fun and moves along briskly. "},{"Title":"Enjoy the big horror fun","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" A group is going up the Amazon to film a lost tribe. On the way they rescue (Jon Voight) stranded on a damaged boat. Then the leader of the expedition Dr. Steven Cale (Eric Stoltz) is struck down, and the stranger starts to lead the expedition astray.This is not an award winning film. But it does what it intends to do. It is a fun horror. On the plus side, they have great actors on the boat. The cast include Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, Jonathan Hyde, Owen Wilson, and Kari Wuhrer. Jon Voight knows what this movie is, and throws any acting books out the window. His over the top creepiness fits his character and this movie style.Most have complain about the CG. The snake does look cheap. I'm willing to overlook the CG problems. The live action ones aren't that much better. It's not that big of a deal. Enjoy this for what it is. "}{"Title":"Brilliant - The snake reminds me of my first wife.","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" What a hoot! A brilliant B movie to watch with a large Gin & Tonic to cheer on the snake. Regrettably I was laughing so much I missed the bit where the amazingly annoying Kari Wuhrer gets the chop. The snake is actually rather good - it looks a bit like my first wife. I didn't know they can scream as well. Jon Voight is as brilliant as ever but the cast dialogue coach was clearly deranged - accents are all over the place and the music is totally out of sync with the scenes. The first snake attack on the boat is a classic - screaming girls, deranged Voight and Owen Wilson ending up as a snake stocking filler. Brilliant. Ice Cube sums it up nicely when he announces That's it - I'm off back to LA. Very sensible, mate. "},{"Title":"It will take your breath away!","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Some movies seem to be destined to be viewed as bad, even though they contain no bad elements at all, and are only loathed because of their premise; Anaconda (1997) falls into that category of movies.What we have here is the best snake horror movie/creature feature ever created with an actual budget, good actors (great actors, Jon Voight!) and an interesting plot and setting which is used very skilfully by director Luis Llosa.No doubt one of the most impressive and deadly reptiles on this planet, the giant green anaconda is the heavies and some might even argue the longest of all constrictors, and the snake has a mythical status as a ultimate predator in the Amazon, you simply can't argue that a 33 foot snake weighing more than 400 pounds isn't one of THE ultimate aquatic and terrestrial predators.The plot is very straight forward, a team of film makers and scientists travel the Amazon River to document a illusive tribe and their ways of life, on their journey they stumble across a hunter (Jon Voight) who's boat is malfunctioning, they take him in, but soon find out that he has other plans, and is on the hunt for the giant anaconda.The special effects are truly astounding for this type of movie, considering it was made in 1996. The animatronics snake is terrific, and is modelled very accurately to its real life counterpart, something that is imperative in a movie such as this; you want as much authenticity as possible. The CGI effects are very solid, and the score is catchy, yet suspenseful at the same time.People seem to forget that many revered critics at the time of release praised the movie for being well constructed and acted, so the hate for it is completely unfound.Of course we can't review this movie without mentioning the awful sequels that did made all the mistakes the first movie avoided, such as skipping out on authenticity making the snakes look like rubber bands more than actual anacondas.Overall Anaconda, is a great snake horror movie worth watching, it has all the right ingredients of suspense, horror and humour with likable and believable characters and fantastic performance from Voight who steals the show.I strongly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Regurgitates a fair bit but it does it in a surprisingly entertaining fashion.","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" If you want some real tension, quality acting and a storyline as engrossing as it is exciting then look elsewhere immediately. If, however, you want a b-movie creature feature with a cracking cast then do give Anaconda a watch.It's all about a giant, man-eating anaconda. Simple. The starring players are all, mostly, part of a documentary film crew who wind up crossing the path of the huge reptile as they explore part of the Amazon river in search of a tribe they hope to catch on camera. There's also a stranded hunter (Jon Voight) picked up en route who seems to have his own selfish reasons for directing them closer towards the deadly snake.Eric Stoltz, Ice Cube, Jennifer Lopez, Owen Wilson, Kari Wuhrer, Jonathan Hyde, Jon Voight and even a small role for Danny Trejo - this movie doesn't lack well-known actors. But it does put them into full-on cheesy movie mode, with Jon Voight's ridiculously hammy performances either one of the cinematic crimes of the century or an over the top piece of entertainment, depending on your mood.The script was written by Hans Bauer, Jim Cash and Jack Epps Jr. and does nothing more than you'd expect from a film based around this concept. We get a decent opener, we then meet the people who will be on screen and potential victims throughout the movie, there are a number of scares (both real and false) and then it's just a hop, skip and a jump to the big face-off finale.Director Luis Llosa doesn't help elevate things to the level of enjoyment of, say, Deep Rising but he keeps things moving along nicely enough and there's some nice, floating, camera-work throughout. Sadly, the computer effects that look so shoddy nowadays already looked quite poor when the film was initially released but the practical work is quite good and the glitches are easy to overlook if you let yourself be carried along by this daft time-waster. Let's face it, this is quite a few steps up from the worst Jennifer Lopez movie you could end up seeing. "},{"Title":"A Breakthrough Film for Me in One Important Sense","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Okay, so this is just your usual formulaic pretty young people in danger in a remote location film right? Wrong. There is one amazing difference in this film that just rocked my whole world momentarily.I watched this movie and I had this sense that something was different and I couldn't figure out what it was. There were attractive young people, there was danger, there was the slutty chick and the stoner dude, there was the evil crazy villain and there was the bad CGI monster so what was it? It took me days to figure it out, this sense that something was different here.Then I figured it out while grocery shopping a couple of days later! This was the first mainstream Hollywood Movie in which the capable heroic people who live and help each other and others survive were people of color and the stupid, evil, ineffectual, slutty, drug using people were white.I'm white and it hit me like a ton of bricks that I had never seen that dynamic before in a main stream film at that time or earlier. It bothers me that I knew something was off about the movie and it was that people of color were portrayed as the smart capable people while the whites weren't. Wow. I gained a new respect for the reality of the inherent racism in our society that day.If you think I am wrong then read a lot of the comments here. People can't figure out why the HERO is unconscious for most of the film. People jeez, Eric Stoltz' character is NOT THE HERO. ICE CUBE IS THE HERO, but we are knee-jerk assuming the hero has to be the WHITE guy right? He is unconscious but he is still the hero? No, Jennifer Lopez is the heroine and Ice cube is the hero. The hero doesn't have to be white or the boyfriend, he can be black and just a friend. "},{"Title":"In a word...cheesy!","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Documentary film crew, headed up by Jennifer Lopez, unknowingly takes on a stranger who is hunting a huge killer snake, but the question is who is the hunter and who is the hunter? This film, in my mind, was kind of like Jaws of the Amazon. The snakes in question obviously exist, and, there might be a few with such mammoth proportions, but the first time you watch this film, you know what it's all about (hence, the title). Although the special effects are way better than Jaws, the film, itself, could have used a little more work in the writing department, because I felt it played like a bad, one hundred minute soap opera/Flash Gordon type sci-fi movie.I think, overall, it was an okay movie for Lopez to debut as the star, but it sure doesn't show any promise in her range (which, over the years, proves any theories of her acting ability right). I think the one who really stole the show in this film, was Jon Voight as the crazy old man who steers the others away from what they want, even though they all know they're ending up in mortal danger. Overall, it's not a bad movie, because, even seeing it for a third time, I still find myself sitting on the edge of my seat in certain parts of this film.6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally funny,...","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I must admit to feeling somewhat irritated by the people who take this film out of context. It isn't Shakespeare. It's a B Movie. And as such, it isn't a bad entry in the lists. B Movies are not about getting every little detail right, so the snake moves at a speed which isn't snakely possible, and you know that most of the cast are going to get squished, munched and swallowed.I enjoyed this movie, simply because I accept it as a brain into neutral, kick back on the sofa, pizza dinner special and not Titus Andronicus. J Lo for once is relatively restrained, and the rest of the cast unremarkable, properly taking second place to a very angry snake, who squishes, munches and swallows with considerable gusto. B Movie fun night in sharing a pizza with friends! "},{"Title":"Not just big...a mega sized menace in the Amazon.","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  A weak story. Even weaker script. Dialogue disjointed. With all big expectations put aside...an interesting cast jumps, dodges, slides, climbs and swims through a believe it or not fun to watch thriller. The special effects are impressive enough to have you flinching. A film crew featuring Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube and Owen Wilson is deep in the jungle riding the Amazon River searching to film/document a legendary tribe. Not only do they have to contend with snakes of every size imaginable they are commandeered by an obsessed snake hunter(Jon Voight). Voight is forcing the crew to hunt for a 40-foot anaconda that likes to swallow humans whole and for some reason vomits them back out. It is worth waiting for the final fight pitting Lopez and Ice Cube against the ferocious slithering hisser. I found it enjoyable watching Voight's demise. Rounding out the cast are Eric Stoltz and Jonathan Hyde. And yes, even in this mess Lopez is eye candy. Veteran Voight of course seems to be the only real talent.  "},{"Title":"Whether you're laughing at it or with it, at least you're laughing.","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" It's a worrying sign that the first 60 seconds of a 90 minute film feels the need to 'serious up' the tone by running a lengthy blurb that effectively says 'big snakes are big and dangerous'.Ummmmm. Duh. Now bring on the killer legless lizards! Featuring a cast that is not so much 'good' as 'recognisable' Anaconda thankfully then gets down to the business of being an enjoyably inane flick with B actors wrestling fake snakes and being thrown around by big CGI effects.The threadbare plot has a doco crew traveling the largely unexplored tributaries of the Amazon searching for a long lost tribe of primitive South Americans who legend has it are protected by giant snakes.And how.After a few hiccups in the mission they pick up supposedly 'Paraguayan' snake hunter played by Jon Voight in a hammy performance to rival that of Tim Curry in Congo. He leads the boat on a snaky&#x85; ahem 'sneaky' shortcut that should save all involved time. Now the fun starts.From this point on there is little for the cast to do but look alternately scared and suspicious in between running around like white mice. The talentless J Lo looks suitably lost and confused &#x96; no surprises there &#x96; and Eric Stoltz is laid up injured for half the film while Owen Wilson hones his shaggy locked surfer boy thing that has since made him a wealthy man.Ice Cube gets the worst wardrobe and the best lines, and I dare you not to chuckle when they show introduce 'snake stomach' cam near the end of the film.While you might be laughing or gasping about ½ the time with and the other ½ in spite of the goings on, I guess one way or the other at least you're laughing.Final Rating &#x96; 5 / 10. Anaconda was released during a spate of creepy crawly based movies in the 90s, it won't blow you away but it was by no means the worst of the bunch and it spawned the usual sucky sequels. "},{"Title":"Rubbish and poppycock","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" 'Anaconda' is a pretty bad movie. There is nothing really interesting or worthy about it aside some of the tropical scenario (Brazil, Peru).I didn't know this movie was from 1997. I thought it was some years more recent. This movie was so much talked and commercially successful and they air this so often on TV here that I thought it was critically successful as well. I am ecstatic to find out that in reality this movie got (and still gets) many negative judgments. And very deservedly.The story is crude, a typical adventure-horror film for teenagers. None of the actors do well in their performances. No character at all was likable or interesting in the slightest way. Still, the worst of all was John Voight's character. He was so bad, nasty, hateable and annoying that he deserved to be eaten by the anaconda.I didn't think the anacondas looked very phony. Over-sized, perhaps. But they almost looked real.In conclusion, this movie is a waste of time. I largely prefer the much better 'Jurassic Park' by Steven Spielberg. "},{"Title":"A Weak, Silly Little Movie","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" After a somewhat promising start, this movie fizzled out into sheer silliness, replete with poorly developed, one dimensional characters and a horrendously fake-looking snake as the man-eating monster. The promise of the beginning revolved around two things a surprisingly effective written scroll to open, which describes in graphic detail what anacondas are and what they're capable of, and an unnerving scene of someone obviously under attack from an unseen predator. Those two things combined seemed to set the stage for a rather fun and exciting and potentially scary movie. Unfortunately, at that point the main characters began to be introduced, and we got pulled into a rather silly plot and nothing much about this seemed believable from that point on. The plot - as far as it goes - revolves around an expedition into the Amazon jungle to shoot a documentary about a mysterious tribe, and the relationships between the various folks in the party, headed by Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube. The jungle setting could have been used to better effect, and the truth is that none of the characters are very interesting. Jon Voight eventually comes on board as the somewhat obsessed snake- chaser who'll happily let everyone die in order to get his prize. The movie is replete with breathtaking lines such as the jungle makes me horny (spoken by Owen Wilson's Gary in a very forgettable performance) and then of course there's Voight's Sarone shouting at Lopez's Terri you killed my wild snake. Perhaps the dumbest scene of the movie was the regurgitation scene, in which Sarone (having been swallowed by the snake a while before) gets regurgitated in front of Terri and proceeds to playfully wink at her while being partially digested and covered in snake slime from the innards of the beast. The biggest weaknesses of the movie, though, are the truly fake looking snake and the lack of any real scares in this. 3/10 "}{"Title":"Snakes alive, it's a modern day Z movie.","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" A documentary crew are travelling down the Amazon to hopefully film a mystical tribe. On the way they rescue a stranded man, unaware of the trouble that his being on board will bring. As they get deeper down river his ulterior motives surface, he's a snake trapper and has his heart set on capturing a giant Anaconda snake. A beast that can grow up to 40 feet long.Ah, creaky creature features, how I love them. Days of old when budgets were minimal and the makers of such pictures just wanted to entertain and hopefully give the discerning viewers a jolt or two, and yes, with the odd giggle thrown in on purpose. Enter the modern day creature feature, where budgets have considerably improved along with the advent of special effects. Where does this leave Anaconda you ask? Is it a modern day homage to the good old days, or is it a genuine attempt at making a horror film for the modern audience? How you answer that will probably determine how, or if, you enjoy the film.The cast list suggests that the makers thought they were making a great movie, while some of the attempts at a serious performance also lend weight to that theory. John Voight on the other hand clearly knew what was needed and gives a sneering, leering ham sandwich performance befitting those creakers from days of yore. If only the likes of Jennifer Lopez, Eric Stoltz, Owen Wilson and Kari Wuhrer had followed suit, we may have been sitting here with a creature feature to rank alongside the marvellous Tremors, or at the least an equal to the funny Arachnophobia.It's not a desperately bad film by any stretch of the imagination. It's fun playing the guess which name actor is going to be snake food next and who will survive come the end While iffy effects aren't really an issue, hey this is a film with gigantic animatronic snakes in it! And for sure some scenes are pure horror hokum delight, watch out for a John Voight wink scene, it's Z movie legend now. But it's neither homage or good horror fodder. Enjoyable enough as an appetiser to far better genre pieces, but ultimately it's very forgettable. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Decent Movie","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Though many people think this movie is really crappy, its actually not. The comment below me said that the movie really is a piece of crap; but I find otherwise. Though it may not be a fantastic movie it does have a lot of good qualities.The plot line it very interesting and the characters are portrayed very well. Now-a-days you find a lot of actors really cannot act, but in this film I did not find any real fake acting. The special effects are not the most fantastic, but the movie was made in 1997. Overall i thought it was a fairly good movie, good acting, good plot, and good scene portrayal. It was a very believable film; which I think is the best quality a movie can have. "},{"Title":"Decent Action/Thriller flick","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This film gets bashed pretty bad, I remember seeing it as a kid and loving it.Now that i'm 20 I decided i'll re-watch it and see how it actually is, I wasn't expecting much (refer to the many negative reviews this film has received) but I got a surprise I actually enjoyed it - a fair bit.The performances are not as bad as what people make them out to be, I'll start with Jennifer Lopez, she was decent, she is portrayed as the main character in this and almost is, though Ice Cube & Jon Voight tend to make a bigger impression.Ice Cube is great in this, if your into his music and rap in general you'll appreciate him in this, on the other hand Voight has been called out numerous times in this flick as to be over-acting - believe it or not I actually know people similar to this character he has portrayed in real life, I thought he did a decent job.Sure at times it tends to get a bit silly but I think this is the type of film that is supposed to do that.The snake does look kind of bad at times the special effects are not mind-blowing (or believable in that matter) though i generally don't like special effects anyway so that can slide (I don't understand why people prefer doing these special effects over making puppets and creating something insanely awesome such as John Carpenter's The Thing).This, I found to be a fun film at times funny, but who cares it entertained me I might just be a sucker for bad movies I don't know, but I wouldn't call this bad.Don't believe the hype give this a try and you'll probably end up liking it.My rating 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Am I the only one that actually enjoyed this film!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I think this movie is really a good movie!!!!!!Simply the idea and plot of the Anaconda is brilliant!!!!!!!The performances of Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube and Jon Voight make this thriller a perfect one!!!!! The computer generated snake is perfect for a 1997 movie!!!!!!!THis is a movie to remember!!!!!!!!!Honestly!!!!!!!!Many people have badly criticized this film!!!!!!!!I really agree with Roger Ebert, it's a really good thriller. I definitely enjoyed this movie it kept me wondering what was going to happen next!!! This movie overpasses Jaws, Jurassic Park and any other movie with a animal human predator. "},{"Title":"The world's first critter film to feature not only a giant snake but also a psychotic defrocked Paraguayan clergyman cum snake-hunter","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda is a modern example of what might be called the critter film, that sub-genre of the horror film which features a person or group of people menaced by some fearsome creature. This sort of film had at one time a deservedly bad reputation, and some examples, such as the British The Blood Beast Terror from 1968 (which deals with the exploits of a gigantic bloodsucking moth), must rank as being among the worst films ever made. The reputation of the genre was partially restored by the success of Spielberg's Jaws, but few of Spielberg's imitators have matched that success.The film is set in the Amazon jungle. A film crew are on an expedition to make a documentary about a long-lost tribe of Indians. On the way they rescue a man from drowning in the river. The man tells them that his name is Paul Sarone, that he is from Paraguay and that he was once a priest but is now a snake hunter in search of a giant anaconda. It turns out that he is also a psychopath who seizes control of the group and forces them to assist him in his search. (No good deed goes unpunished).The rest of the film consists of various members of the group meeting a grisly fate at the hands of either Sarone or of the monstrous anaconda, which must make this the world's first critter film to feature not only a giant snake but also a psychotic defrocked Paraguayan clergyman cum snake-hunter.If Spielberg partially rehabilitated the critter film in the seventies, then Luis Llosa has managed single-handedly to relegate it back to the low status it enjoyed in the fifties. One might have thought that a film made as recently as 1997 would feature reasonably good special effects, but those in Anaconda are including the monster snake itself pathetically unconvincing. According to your trivia page the CGI cost $100,000 per second. It looks more like $100 for the whole film.The unconvincing effects are matched by some equally unconvincing acting. Jennifer Lopez has given some reasonably good performances in films such as Angel Eyes or Maid in Manhattan, but at her worst she can be dreadful, and here she is at her very worst, worse even than in Enough, which is saying something. She is totally wooden in this film, wandering though it as though someone (probably her accountant) had suggested that she diversify her career by branching out into acting, without actually explaining to her what acting involves.Ice Cube, another singer seeking to diversify his career, is equally bad. His character is supposedly the cameraman on the film crew, but he more closely resembles an LA gangster mysteriously transported to the Amazon rainforest. (Incidentally, if my surname were Cube I don't think I would name my son Ice. Is his sister called Sugar?) The Australian-born Jonathan Hyde plays his character as an English upper-class twit straight out of the Monty Python sketch, complete with the sort of accent rarely heard these days outside P.G. Wodehouse adaptations. A young Owen Wilson shows why he has been wise to confine himself to comedy in his subsequent career (although some would say that Anaconda counts as a comedy, albeit an inadvertent one).Perhaps the most disturbing performance comes from Jon Voight as Sarone. Whereas the other performances are wooden, his is a deliberately over-the-top caricature, hammier than a delicatessen counter, complete with an exaggerated foreign accent. Sarone comes across as like Manuel from Fawlty Towers trying to do a bad Hannibal Lecter impersonation. Seeing this film it is difficult to recall that, in his early days when he was making films like Midnight Cowboy and Deliverance, Voight was regarded as a serious actor; his decline from those days is the reason why I labelled his performance disturbing.I was intrigued to learn that the director is a cousin of the great Peruvian novelist Mario Vargas Llosa, but unfortunately he does not appear to share the artistic sensibilities of his distinguished kinsman, as Anaconda is one of the worst films I have seen in a long time. It was nominated for what would have been a well-deserved Razzie, but unaccountably lost to The Postman, a vastly better film. (This confirmed my suspicion that the Razzies have less to do with exposing genuinely bad film-making than with cutting some tall poppy, in this case Kevin Costner, down to size). Although the critics mostly shared my dislike for Anaconda, it was a success at the box office, and has attracted numerous ten-star reviews on this board, although I suspect that most of them were written in a tongue-in-cheek spirit. Certainly, it is possible to enjoy the film, but only if one approaches it on the basis that it's so bad it's funny. 2/10 "},{"Title":"You also can't scream when you're laughing - 27%","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I must confess, my only motive for watching this movie was so I could trash it in this very review. Anaconda was roundly kicked upon release by all and sundry but I decided that perhaps we were being too harsh. After all, the cast didn't sound too bad. Jon Voight has four acting Oscar nominations, even winning one of them. It couldn't be that bad, could it?Yep. This really is a modern-day monster movie with a crudely animated giant snake replacing Robby the (Rubber) Robot. The plot revolves around an inept bunch of documentary film-makers who embark on a journey into the Amazon jungle to find some long-lost tribe, so they have noble intentions then. Things go wrong when they pick up obvious psycho Voight, who hijacks the trip in an attempt to capture the world's largest snake. Sort of like Dead Calm meets David Attenbourgh. Characters are as wooden as their boat - Voight sneers like there's no tomorrow and seems permanently lit from underneath, like a kid with a torch at Halloween. Jennifer Lopez is your typically big-bosomed action hero and Eric Haven't-I-seen-you-in-something-else? Stoltz is... something or other, I can't remember and I literally only just finished watching it.Aside from the rank cheesiness of it all, this film tries to pretend that it's the first of its kind. Therefore, characters will proceed to wade through murky waters despite knowing that there's a very large hungry snake swimming in them. The good guys only catch on to Voight's motives fairly late in the day to do much about it - honestly, he is pantomime-bad in this picture. I haven't seen anyone over-act quite so much since Jeremy Irons in the Dungeons & Dragons movie and that really is pushing it. In addition, the genre's stereotype dictates that women must wear tight shorts, sleeveless vests and get wet as often as possible whilst exposing themselves to danger. Something Lopez and fellow tit-attraction Kari Wuhrer perform frequently but not well. Only Ice Cube seemed to perform well in this picture, though not as good as fellow hip-hop star LL Cool J in Deep Blue Sea. Jeez, these guys get all the luck...I really wanted to remain as objective and open-minded as possible for this film, knowing how notoriously bad it is. But there can be little excuse for this. Some might try to convince you that it is a spoof or that it is a homage to the monster movies of yore. Not only does this film take itself too seriously (except Voight, bless his evil cotton socks) but seems to want to distance itself from the past, using computer-generated images and lots of blue-screen as opposed to those famous rubber suits and puppets. When you take into account some truly comic ideas (for the wrong reasons - the shot of the snake swimming past the camera with his victim's screaming detail visible through its body got me laughing), annoying bit players, unexciting action scenes and a poor central premise (it's just a snake, people - IT HAS NO LIMBS!) then the writing is on the wall for this one. Anaconda should slither back to the dark recesses that it came from before it gets beaten with a broomstick. "},{"Title":"There's A Snake In My Boot!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Way down deep in the middle of the jungle, a film crew & mad hunter meet a giant Anaconda!Anaconda is basically an old fashioned monster movie, a 50s B-movie with some modern if not so special FX. It has all the trappings of the worst of those  movies - creaky dialogue, wooden acting etc - but none of the charm. The cast performances are pretty average, J-Lo is easy on the eye, Ice Cube is his normal self & Eric Stoltz lies down for most of the film - easy money! In a film like this the star of the show should be the monster. For the most part it appears to be a giant rubber snake that terrorizes its hapless victims as they travel upriver. This is mixed with some average CGI FX. Initially it seems that the director is going for a more suspenseful Jaws type approach but its not long before he dumps this style for a more in your face series of snake attacks. To be fair there are a couple of imaginatively done moments to be found here - one attack has the snake catch its victim as he falls rolling him up as it returns to the treetops! - but nothing really amazing or unexpected. This is a reflection of the film as a whole, its all very predictable & devoid of thrills.So why watch this film? Two words, John Voight!  His performance is  deliciously over the top, complete with evil scowls & menacing grimaces. This has got to be a new high (or low) in cinema acting! You wonder how on earth he got away with it! HE wonders how on earth he got away with it! Voight seems to be trying to go as far as he can, getting more & more hammy, waiting for someone to notice or say something but they just let him get on with it! He must be thinking, how ridiculously over the top can I go? Then he goes further! The make up department should have gone the whole hog & given him a large wax moustache to twirl as he cackles away. Its also disappointing that he didn't tie J-Lo to some train tracks! Oh well, if the acting offers dry up in Hollywood he's got a job for life in Panto! The crowning glory of Voights performance comes in his final scene. He really takes the biscuit & steals the movie! It's so hilariously unbelievable! Its a must see!Overall then, a decidedly average & old fashioned monster movie that isn't really very good. Rubbish apart from Voights performance which is pretty much the only reason for watching Anaconda.  "},{"Title":"OK pic.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie has been viciously attacked by most reviewers, yet it's actually an OK horror pic. At least it's acceptable, while Jaws 3-D, for example, isn't. The effects were uneven and the snake DID look fake at times, but the performances were all decent. Voigh is supposed to be slimy, and he pulls it off pretty well. The it's-not-dead-yet ending is very cliched. "},{"Title":"Sack the researchers","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Wow, how bad of a film is this?? I don't actually think that the researchers for this film even bothered to turn up for work, they googled a picture of an anaconda and made the rest up. This film has so many wholes in it fact wise any person who is remotely keen on snakes will end up launching something heavy at the screen. Also for people who aren't too sure about snakes it instills an irrational fear, i suppose thats the point.snakes that big can bearly move along the ground let alone climb 30ft up a tree to attack a man in a waterfall. . . just cos he can. And also you kind of get the feeling that they want you to believe that if you don't move the snake cannot see you. I'm sorry what film are we watching again, Jurassic park??if you want to sit and point out endless whole then watch this film, but it irritated me so much i thought id tell you about it.... "},{"Title":"Mediocre attempt with some nice elements","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Quite honestly, I detest snakes, so this movie was a huge fear-generator for me. So I won't talk about the suspense, the horror, or the terror ~I~ felt when watching this, just to be fair.Owen Wilson delivered the only natural performance in this production. Jennifer Lopez frankly reeked, as did Ice Cube. John Voight was good, but not up to par, in my opinion. There are some excellent action sequences, and some decent and funny dialog, and the story flows with an adequate pace. The effects, especially those of the snake itself, are really quite good, and show an inspired use of that $35M budget.My favorite scene? There is a shot from the ground, of a guy jumping from an extreme height. Just as you think, Yeah! He's gotten away! the anaconda comes out of nowhere and snatches him right out of mid-air. That was impressively shot and executed, and was (in my opinion) the highlight of the whole movie.It is considered a B movie, yet carried a $35M budget?! How, by any consideration, does that qualify this movie as a B flick? That's an A budget, and so it will be rated as such.It rates a 4.2/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"snakes off of a plane","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" OK, so in retrospect, Anaconda looks pretty ridiculous Ice Cube talks like a rapper wannabe, Jennifer Lopez always looks like she's getting made up (despite the fact that they're out in the jungle), and the title serpent only attacks obnoxious people. If we accept the movie as just a cheap action flick, it doesn't seem all that bad. The main question is how Oscar winner Jon Voight ended up in something so silly (and the major goof of having Brazilians speak Spanish).Oh well, Owen Wilson had to start somewhere; he should thank his lucky stars that he didn't have to start out in Dante's Peak. Also starring Eric Stoltz, Jonathan Hyde, Danny Trejo, and the voice of Frank Welker.As for snakes in movies, we'll have to see how Snakes on a Plane turns out. "},{"Title":"fantastic movie","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda is a wonderful movie. These people travel through the waters of the Amazon Rainforest looking for a tribe to make a documentary about them. They run into a man who they rescue and he turns out to be a maniac who wants to catch an anaconda alive. The movie has great scenes that are very creepy and scary. The big anacondas in this are bigger, faster, and more aggressive than real green anacondas but that was necessary to make a good horror movie. Some of the great scenes are when you see the shape of a man inside a snake that ate him. And when you see a snake swallowing a man from inside the snake. It's as if the camera is inside the snake and you see it's mouth or throat open and the man go inside it. And when a baby anaconda wraps around a mans finger and tries to eat it. "},{"Title":"Iffy Jennifer Lopez movie","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I mainly watched this because I love Jennifer Lopez movies. I always like seeing her act. Ice Cube joins her in this movie, and I liked him alright, not the best, but he was OK. Jon Voight was pretty good in this movie, he played his menacing character well. The special effects were iffy, some shots looked fake, while others were just fine, so like i said, it's iffy. I did enjoy the scene where Jon Voight's character was eaten, that was fun and cool to see. Owen Wilson didn't really work well in this movie, I didn't enjoy his acting at all. Hid acting seemed kinda fake and phoned in. I expected to hate every second of this movie, but I was surprisingly entertained by it, especially through about the last half an hour or so. Jennifer Lopez and her love interest had really great chemistry too, they worked well together and you could totally buy their romance. Overall, this movie did end up entertaining me, and I was very pleased with the ending and the outcome of everything. This movie is really just mindless fun. If you can overlook Owen Wilson and a few shots of bad CGI, I think you should enjoy it just fine. 7/10 for Anaconda (1997). "},{"Title":"We should make a movie like Jaws...but with a snake....wait a minute!!!","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Let me tell you about a little film called Anaconda. I watched this film a dozen times as a kid, I loved monster flicks. Anaconda was bad, it was utterly bad, yet I've seen it more times than I want to admit. Now we visit it again, years later, so we can laugh at how ridiculous this film is. We open with Danny Trejo, for some reason they dubbed his lines. He doesn't speak English, but the voice the use is so much higher than what we all know to be the gravel voice of Trejo. Just something that I found funny.The monster effects are laughably bad at times and worse at others. When the snake is animatronic, the obviousness of it all makes it seems like a bad ride at universal. Then we have the CGI effects, which make the snake seem like it doesn't even belong on the screen. The first attack on a human, the entire thing looks like one giant blur. The first time we see the snake in general isn't with some Jaws like reveal, it's simply the thing slithering around in the jungle before it attacks a puma. No big reveal, no slow reveal...just the damn snake out in the open. In Ebert's review of the film, which is enthusiastically gave a thumbs up, he claims Jon Voight delivers a brave and slimy performance. That I can agree with, but I wouldn't necessarily call it a great performance. It's without a doubt, memorable, but in the campy way. He glares at almost everyone on the screen, his skin is slimy like a snake and immediately untrustworthy. No one else seems to think they are in a bad movie here. Voight seems to know this from the get go. Watch this film and then watch The Room and tell me the performances from them are not almost identical. Is he doing DeNiro? Is he doing Brando? Who the hell knows. It's one wacky performance, that much is a guarantee. This was one of the early Jennifer Lopez films that probably helped launch her career. Why? I don't know, she doesn't offer anything interesting here. Ice Cube and Owen Wilson play against their usual type, I don't think we've seen either of them in a monster flick since this one, Suffice to say, Anaconda is a bad film that boarders on being highly enjoyable. Sit back, laugh and enjoy the absurdity of Anaconda. If you take this film seriously...at all, even for one second, then you will utterly hate it. "},{"Title":"Not Great, But Not Bad Creature Feature!","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, Jon Voight, Jonathan Hyde and Eric Stoltz star in this 1997 thriller. Lopez (Selena) plays Terri, a filmmaker who tries to make a documentary depicting the Amazon river and an ancient tribe that resides there. Soon, she and her crew find a mysterious man, Serone (Voight) who is stranded and help him. They discover he's a snake hunter who tries using them as bait to catch a giant, deadly snake that stalks them. Cube plays Terri's friend, Danny, Hyde (Richie Rich) plays professor, Westridge and Stoltz (Pulp Fiction) plays professor, Cale. This isn't great, but not bad, the cast is OK and the Anaconda is creepy. This is one of many creature features that followed in the footsteps of Jaws and I recommend it if you enjoy killer things in the water. "},{"Title":"Constricting Time!","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda (1997) Dir Luis Llosa / Cast Jennifer Lopez, Jon Voight, Ice Cube, Eric Stoltz, Kari Wuhrer Interesting camera angle transcends from the snake's mouth as it devours a victim whom will give a sadistic wink as he is regurgitation. Snakes are a common fear and that occurs to a group of researchers scouting for a lost tribe. After assisting Jon Voight from a boat wreckage Eric Stoltz is injured and laid up and in need of medical attention. Voight is out to capture the large reptile alive. Director Luis Llosa creates an ominous atmosphere. He previously made Sniper as well as the action flop The Specialist. Voight steals the film as the icy villain who at one point, breaks someone's neck using only his legs. He will come to learn that anacondas are a creature that is best left alone. The rest of the cast are introduced quickly and are mainly issued as menu items for the snake. Jennifer Lopez does display a smart and resourceful heroine. Ice Cube is featured in fine form among the crew. Stoltz is wasted in a role where he mainly catches up on sleep. Kari Wuhrer has a tense scene where Voight chokes her out using only his legs. The snake itself is effective but real anacondas cannot move that swift on land. Film argues the power of such creatures as the structure of a face is visible within its body as it swims past the camera. It is an often exciting thriller that puts the squeeze on the audience. Score 8 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they say it is","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda is a 1997 movie directed by Luis Llosa. Almost 20 years ago,it somehow killed his career as a director as he was very prolific before that, but only directed one film afterward. He worked mostly as a producer since then. The writer team is the same as on the famous film Top Gun and they also did a sequel to this one here. Anaconda scored quite a few Razzie nominations (the Razzies got it wrong again, as they usually do), but I have to say I was occasionally entertained watching this and I would not even call it a guilty pleasure.It starts a bit randomly with Danny Trejo (Machete) in the first scene committing suicide after the snake attacks him. Who he is or why he is shown we never find out. I am not sure if they just wanted him in there because he was famous (if he was?) or what was the whole purpose of that intro. Other than that, the film has a couple more well-known actors included Anademy Award winner Jon Voight, Academy Award nominee Owen Wilson, Golden Globe nominees Eric Stoltz and (incredibly hot) Jennifer Lopez, rapper Ice Cube, Jonathan Hyde and Kari Wuhrer, who has been in quite a few (animal) horror films. The standout is Voight though, sporting a ponytail in this film and portraying a character at least as scary as the snake monster he is after. He saves one guy's life early in the film, but takes another later on. A true monster he plays here. So it was basically a fight of human beast vs. animal beast. And would you have guessed that swallowing a dangerous tropic bee can save your life from the Anaconda. It did for one character as he was in the cabin pretty much for the rest of the film afterward.Basically, the film is all about people being in the water and the dangerous situation with the audience wondering if the giant snake will appear or not. I thought this invisible danger was actually bigger than the real danger when the beast occurred. But that's usually the case for me that invisible danger works better to scare me. That is also why The Blair Witch Project had such an impact on me. One thing that surprised me is how Wilson's character becomes the aide to Voight so quickly in the film. Far too quickly for my taste. Anyway, maybe he saw a strong leader or father figure in him I guess and he was just easy to manipulate. Oh yeah and then there is also the bee scene I mentioned earlier. Man that was scary and gross when they get the insect out of the guy's mouth, probably tougher on my than the most snake scenes.What I liked was how they managed to show how everybody felt out of place in the jungle except Voight's character who was all home and natural in there. I am not sure if I liked the scene where the team try to trick Voight's character (and succeed), but the A*shole in 1-comment was kinda cool. What I did wonder was how Voight's character (after he seemed to be dead early) managed to get out of the water with the tranquilizer in his blood. That was not particularly realistic. And I was a bit surprised about how the snake always showed up where the team was.I liked about the film that, at 90 minutes including ending credits, it was not longer than it should have been and they kept it pretty much very essential. It was also not too difficult to create a connection with all the characters and quickly understand who is who, which is usually one of the most important things about a film. But that also could have been as I was quite familiar with most of the cast. However, I wished that maybe they would have gone for a slightly different ending in which the animal prevails and just kills everybody. Could have made for a nice change. Anyway, decent animal horror film. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Special Effects!!","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I rated this movie with a 7 on a scale of 10 due to the special effects that were more than just great, but were fantastic! Mr. John Nelson deserves all the credit for his 3-d creature animation that made this B horror movie so life like and horrifying at the same time. The story starts out with a National Geographic Group's journey on the Amazon river in search of a lost tribe. During their journey up river, they pick-up a stranded boater played by John Voight, who is in search of a giant snake to claim for his fame. When the giant snake is located, the members of the group take sides for and against capturing the snake, but Voight claims victory. Soon after this, some people fall prey to the snake and the true sense of horror engulfs both the crew members and the viewers alike. I hope you'll enjoy the ride to the end of the movie! "},{"Title":"I have had it with these Motherfucking Bad Looking Snakes in this Motherfucking Bad Movie!","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I'm not blind to see that the filmmakers weren't hoping to make Anaconda more than a B-Movie, but I did see actors acting their hearts out. So, the contradiction made me hate on this movie.Oh, okay, that and the extremely terrible and outlandish actions and visuals of the snakes.I saw this movie many moons ago and possibly saw the first follow-up, which, by the way, is understandably even worse, and never took an interest in seeing it again. But the guys (and gal) over at How Did This Get Made put it on their list, and then, I had to revisit the Amazon once more.Routine, routine, routine this movie was until the snakes arrive. They're (or it might be the inept employees at the CGI camp) so comical that you don't actually get scared. You simply laugh. And I am not just talking 2014 here. I laughed just as equally in 1997 when this arrived. I mean, four years prior was Jurassic Park which effects STILL hold up today. So, NO EXCUSES or PASSES for you Anaconda.Really, this movie boils down to a film crew wanting to capture natives on film in the Amazon, but when one crew member gets ill and another stowaway might be more evil than he appears, things get bad. Like a waterfall that actually shoots water upwards, a double-shot take of characters entering a scene and then immediately entering the same scene, binge-eating snakes, the great Danny Trejo needing a voice over &#x96; and a bad one at that, a man-eating snake that, in real-life doesn't actually eat man, costs someone millions and an ending so ridiculous, so hilarious, it's almost worth watching for.Also, I feel bad for one of my all-time favorites, Eric Stoltz. He didn't just phone his performance in, he slept through it.I guess for a Saturday night, we have no plans and we will follow up this movie with a How Did This Get Made recap of the film on Sunday, it would be worth a shot. But, if it doesn't all play out like that, skip it!* * * Final thoughts Yes, I reference a lot back to Jurassic Park, especially in the 1990s. Truthfully, that Steven Spielberg classic showed us &#x96; EVEN TODAY &#x96; things do NOT need to look fake if you resort to planning your entire movie around CGI. Later, the Lord of the Rings will prove that an entire world can be as real as ours. So, when I see shitty CGI, such as in this movie, I do NOT forgive them. They just wanted to make this probably $150 million movie on a $12 million budget. Shame! "},{"Title":"This river can kill you in a thousand ways.....","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" A National Geographic crew head down the Amazon in a boat to make a documentary on a long-lost tribe of natives. On the way, they rescue a hunter from his sinking boat and take him on board. After the ship's captain is attacked by a poisonous insect and goes comatose, the hunter commandeers the boat. taking the crew hostage, he makes them go along on his insane quest to capture a giant anaconda.....First things first, the film is awful, its all over the shop and there has to be some of the most over the top acting I've ever seen in a movie. Saying that, I had a blast from beginning to end. Any film that can dub Trejos voice and kill him off in literally the first two minutes, has to be seen. The rest of the film is owned by Voight and a really dodgy looking reptile. Considering this is four years after Jurassic Park, and they spent a hundred grand every second that beast was on screen, its pretty laughable.The rest of the cast are there for filler. Lopez is good, Ice Cube is just a happier Doughboy, Wilson getting into Hollywood big time, and Jonathan Hyde as the token British snob, which is xenophobia if I've ever seen it.But there is so much fun to be had, guessing who will die first, the amount of times Voights accent changes thought the film, and obviously how much better Lopezs' nose looks today.But it is a bad film, and although I had lots of fun watching it, I cannot justify giving it a high rating.But its the best movie ever made where Eric Stoltz is asleep for 80% of the running time. "}{"Title":"Snake of the Century!","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Watching Anaconda is like plastering the palm of your hand against a clear glass jar that contains a rattlesnake and then gambling that you won't flinch when the snake strikes at the glass from within the container. More than half of the audience with whom I sat lost this wager every time that the eponymous snake struck. The ghoulish, B-movie plot of Anaconda resembles a blueprint for a theme park cruise. Scenarists Hans Bauer, Jim Cash, and Jack Epps, Jr., have borrowed surefire elements and incidents from better movies, such as Moby Dick (1956), Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954), and Jaws (1975). Sadly, although it is entertaining in an idiotic kind of way, Anaconda never seems to enthrall its audience because its campy sense of unreality undercuts its chills.The premise has something to do with journalists on an expedition heading down the Amazon in search of a lost South American tribe of Indians. Expedition leader Dr. Steven Cale (Eric Stoltz of Killing Zoe) picks up a shipwrecked survivor, Paul Sarone (Jon Voight of Midnight Cowboy), along the way, but nothing good comes from this act of kindness. Voight turns in a heavily accented performance as an incredibly slimy villain. He is cast as a sinister ex-priest who resembles the feisty Quint (Robert Shaw) in Jaws. Sarone is as obsessed with bagging giant killer snake as Ahab (Gregory Peck) was with catching a great white whale in Moby Dick. Sarone is perfectly willing to use his new friends as bait if necessary to trap his 40-foot snake.A freak underwater accident early on puts Dr. Cale out of commission. It seems that when he dove in to fix a stuck propeller, a poisonous fish swam into his mouth and stung him. Sarone convinces the expedition film director, Terri Flores (Jennifer Lopez of Selena) that he knows a short-cut down a blocked tributary that will cut 50 miles off their trip and save Cale's life. Foolishly, Terri believes Sarone and off they steam literally into the jaws of death. Director Louis Llosa and his scribes really heat up the suspense when Sarone commandeers the boat. Our heroes are cut off now in the untamed jungles of South America, and their radio has crapped out on them. They are without help and completely at the Sarone's mercy. Furthermore, during a big snake attack, the reptile knocks most of their fuel overboard so they have to prowl deeper into snake country to find more fuel.Standing out among the trendy-looking cast for his resilience is rapper Ice Cube from Boyz N the Hood. He plays a tough, resourceful, film photographer who joins forces with Terri to thwart Sarone. The rest of the expedition crew are largely victims biding their time until they are eaten.If you don't know an animatronic snake from the real McCoy, or if you think this super anaconda could outrun the Road Runner, you're in for a nightmare experience. Every time this fake anaconda struck, most of the audience with which I sat went berserk. This big mother of a snake slings its coils like so many lariats around its prey. No matter if they're scrambling for a ladder or jogging through the jungle, this lethal anaconda hits them like a twister, wraps around them, and then chomps down on their heads. A pretty sight it is not. Meanwhile, the audiences sheds its collective skin. Maybe it wasn't as terrifying as Alien, but then my audience wouldn't have known the difference. What really matters in Anaconda is who will the big, bad snake devour next? And how will our heroes destroy it? Director Louis Llosa, whose helmed better movies such as The Specialist and Sniper, exploits the colorful Amazonian flora and fauna as does the snake. Sure, there are the inevitable anaconda cam shots and for the artistically inclined, Llosa provides a grotesque point of view shot. We get to see what it looks like staring down inside of the python's gullet as it digest another victim.Llosa paces Anaconda like a jack-in-the-box. He cranks up the tension between attacks. Just before his audiences has recovered, he unleashes another attack. And be warned, nothing can stop this anaconda. It can smash through windows, shatter boat hulls, and has special sensing ability that attracts it to its prey. This anaconda also shrieks like a cat when it gets hooked.As horror movies go, Anaconda is a straightforward, gut and churn classic. Not classic in the sense that it represents superior entertainment. Instead, classic in the sense that it egregious. The only moment in the entire film when the movie makers reach too far is Voight's tacky winking scene. This scene is so hideous that you either howl or hurl. Llosa succeeds in frightening the frijoles out of his audiences with unsavory material. Nothing wrong with that. Any movie that provokes a response is worth watching at least once. The closet that the filmmakers come to sexual encounters is a quickie on the bank that the snake hisses at, and Lopez's wet T-shirt.Despite its glossy, big-budgeted production values, Anaconda ends up as such a flaky carnival of outlandish special effects and unrealistic antics that you want to snicker when you should scream and scream when you should snicker. "},{"Title":"A slithering good time.","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This is probably my favorite snake flick. While still a well-known movie, who would have thought that it would spawn three sequels? The first sequel decent while the remaining two pretty lame. Let's not get off track because we're here for the original. The first one. Is it good? Yeah, pretty much.Basically, an insane hunter (Jon Voight) drags a film crew who were trying to make a documentary on a lost South American tribe into his quest to catch the Amazon's most fearsome predator the anaconda. As one would expected, this snake doesn't plan on getting captured and wants to eat them all alive.This movie is pretty darn good with a recognizable cast (Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, Jon Voight, Owen Wilson, etc.) and great effects for the anaconda. Jon Voight is suitably creepy. You can tell that there's something wrong with him. Of course he can't compete with a giant snake that can crush your body and swallow you whole. Fun film, worth a watch, check it out. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but nothing to remember.","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" One of the more watchable movies, i assume, in this genre, but perhaps only because it includes celebrities like Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube...The plot? A bunch of people go into the Amazon jungle to make a documentary about a remote Indian tribe but soon get other things to think of. Movies like this always contain typical stereotype propaganda and this one may take the price in that department anyway. First it is Jon Voight who plays an ex-priest(!) turned snake-hunter and then the bimbo lady that is a must and her naive boyfriend. Then the European (in this case British) who is the typical dork who only seem to care about playing golf and listen to opera... One can figure out who is going to survive already from the start basically, the coolest people of course... The acting isn't a complete disaster according to me but nothing to write home about either. The plot in itself isn't that credible either, i doubt that a bunch like this would undertake to go on an adventure like the one they had in mind. The sceneries and the environment look rather good, although in one scene when they are done battling the snake the waterfall seem to run uphill....An unfortunate miss i'm sure. In conclusion, the characters are so stereotypical and surreal in some way that it just doesn't do it as a good movie even in this genre. If you have nothing else to do it could work as reasonable entertainment, and then just shake it off you, kind of. I think the movie makers figured that more people would watch it if it starred Jennifer Lopez and perhaps they thought right if so. "},{"Title":"Don't even bother wasting your time with this","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This is little more than a monster movie with a bit of a plot. The movie is advertised as a monster movie and the plot only exists to keep the critics happy. I myself didn't think much of it. The suspense was there but I spent most of the time trying to work out who was going to die. As is typical, the injured guy doesn't die and the woman doesn't die. The black guy (Ice Cube) didn't die either, but then if I were making a movie I wouldn't kill the cool black guy. What plot there was dealt with a television crew travelling up the Amazon to catch footage of a lost tribe. On their way they meet a guy whose boat has broken down. He is a snake hunter and knows of the tribe they are looking for. He has an ulterior motive though, he wants to capture a giant snake and will do anything to get it. Thus the movie dodged between a mad hunter trying to kill the crew and a monster snake trying to kill the crew. I thought the snake sucked. It wasn't scary and I wasn't holding my breath when it attacked. It did manage to swallow people whole, but beyond that I wasn't impressed. There wasn't much in the way of redeeming features and the only theme that I got out of the movie was how we have not truly tamed nature, but I think there are far better movies, such as Titanic, that portray that theme. "},{"Title":"A Kitsch Masterpiece","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Stepping into the deep footprints left by other classics of kitsch such as Airport (all of them), Batman Forever, and most films starring Jane Seymour, Anaconda is a wonderful high speed slither around an at times painful script and special effects which vary between the revolting and the sniggerworthy on the viewability scale.It's Jaws of the Jungle, with a 60 foot long reptile threatening various deeply improbable members of an expedition seeking the 'People of the Mist', the standard lost tribe of the Amazon (yup, them again). If there is really such a tribe, they'd better receive some remuneration for use of their name in this epic of its type. The brief appearance by their representatives was marked by probably the straightest acting in the film.The rest of the cast provides us with a delicatessen of hams and sundry overcooked meats, all of whom appear to be having a great time with this piece of amiable hokum.The beast at times is somewhat scary, providing some real jumps and gross moments, and the comely Carrie Wuhrer and Jennifer Lopez play up and appear suitably alarmed at the sight of this improbably large phallic symbol bearing down upon them with grim intent.It's pacily directed, and the opening scene, featuring the unseen beastie stalking a hapless if rather seedy (and therefore deserving) victim, is conceptually a neat steal in the Indiana Jones scene setting genre. From this point on, it's an obvious but well managed build up until the group jeopardy scenario is complete, prior to mayhem breaking loose.The cause of all the expedition's problems is none other than Jon Voight, an overly fixated snake snaffler who arranges to be 'rescued' by them, and then proceeds to take over after the leader, Eric Stoltz, playing out of character as a professor, is paralyzed by a wasp sting. Yes. That is what I said.Not having any adrenaline in the kit bag, Jon then performs unusual surgery on Stoltz, who then thankfully remains in a coma for most of the film, no doubt to the relief of his bank manager, agent and immediate dependents. Snake catcher Jon, enjoying himself hugely, and chewing every rug in sight, is after a real biggie this time, and needs transportation to, and bait for, his prey. These roles are filled by Stoltz, his boat, and companions. To achieve his ends he utilizes a lethal combination of sneers, leers, lecherous remarks, sarcastic put downs and of course assaults with rifle butts.However, these techniques work best with humans, not irascible giant snakes, and things end in tears at bedtime for Voight, who is targeted successfully by the snake (a truly classic interior shot of the snake at this point is worth the cash for admission by itself), then regurgitated whilst the real star makes room in its' tum for an unrequited but totally understandable pop at the beautiful Ms Lopez. In line with the overall tenor of the film, the final shot of the survivors heading off into the sunset with their boat confirms the suspicion that director Luis Liosa and the cast had had their fun and then decided to cut their losses and head off into the next project asap.Anaconda was always a film which would be hard to do straight. It's not the '70's after all. So Liosa and the cast play it with a discernible tongue in their collective cheeks, which hits the right note. If you're phobic about snakes, this film provides good aversion therapy. Even if you're not, it's worth a visit, as it provides a strong cocktail of frights, suspense, and unintentional giggles, all of which make it a film which is hard to forget and easy to like. "},{"Title":"Screaming snakes... haha!!!!","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" OK, first off, i don't know why people hate anaconda. I mean yeah it's corny but it's fun!!! I think people who can have a good laugh will like it. Who knows, you might hate it. But i liked it. See I saw it for Jennifer Lopez and Owen Wilson. And the anaconda of course!!! I don't know, it's one of my favourite movies so whatever. I just, don't see why some people take science fiction. Well, this is my opinion. And on Time Warner Cable it got one little star (in how bad/good it was). But, people need to accept it's a classic, and it will always be. I think Lous Llosa (director) did awesome. And Jennifer Lopez, Owen Wilson, Ice Cube and John Voight did good. *** "},{"Title":"A slick, glistening fast-mover like its 40-foot-long star that still works for me on the same principles that it did as a kid","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I hadn't seen Anaconda in a very long time before yesterday. If memory serves me right, at least six years had passed since I last visited this slick, fast-moving, and low-key creature feature. Despite the fact that I can be quite critical on many pictures - pictures that are vastly more intelligent and well-produced than this one - I am a sucker for creature features. Have been ever since I was a kid. Thus, Anaconda worked for me as a kid. And now, having revisited it, my response would not be sincere if I claimed it still did not work for the exact same principles that it did six years ago.Anaconda is a movie not concerned about plot or story. It's primary concern is placing a half-dozen one-dimensional characters in the middle of the Amazon jungle, run across a deranged bounty hunter played by Jon Voight, and do battle with a 40-foot-long, computer graphic snake. The movie spends the minimal amount of time necessary setting up the would-be story, whipping through that quickly instead of dawdling on dialogue that, given the nature of this film, would be a destined bore, and cutting to the chase. It establishes that they are stranded, that Voight is a sicko, and that there's a man-eating snake.The movie's top-billed star is Jennifer Lopez (good performance here) but the two real stars are Jon Voight and the snake. The latter is well-realized using animatronics and some slick computer graphics. Initially, some of the snake scenes are hokey and the fact that it's just a pixel-covered 3D model painted on the screen is obvious, but they do get better as the movie goes along. After a while, the snake scenes become quite interesting, imaginative, and above all, exciting. There's not a single moment with the snake that actually scared me, but none of them made me sigh with boredom, either. The snake is well-realized and it's really cool to see it coiling around ladders as it chases after people and catch a jumping person in midair. The fact that real anacondas neither grow this big nor behave this predatory means nothing.In regards to Jon Voight, I think this is a much overlooked performance. There's a tendency in these pictures to rip-off Robert Shaw's marvelous performance in Jaws the movie that set the foundation for every creature feature since 1975. But Voight does not. He sort of reinvents the idea of a subhuman, big-game hunter. And it takes skill to take dialogue and situations that are hilariously corny on paper and make them work on camera. Voight does it. He's funny when he needs to be, he's slick elsewhere, and he's interesting just like the snake.The supporting cast includes Ice Cube, Owen Wilson, Eric Stoltz, Jonathan Hyde, Kari Wuhler, Vincent Castellanos, and Danny Trejo, all of whom play their roles mechanically under the guidelines that this is a mechanical plot with mechanical characters. So that is not a detractor in regards to them. In particular, Ice Cube and Jonathan Hyde have very strong screen presences and keep the brief snake-free moments interesting. And I will repeat my previous statement that Jennifer Lopez is in fine form here and in more terms than just her physical beauty, which fits nicely with the beautifully-photographed backgrounds.Given the movie's reputation, I was expecting to be bored watching Anaconda again for a second time. I figured having grown up and coming to understand film and filmmaking better, I would have passed this one creature feature off despite my love for the genre. But nope, Anaconda still has a way of working on me and I must confess that I had a good time watching it again. "},{"Title":"Is it just me or does the jungle make you really, really horny?","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" You may think I tuned into this for Jennifer Lopez. Actually. it was a Danny Trejo performance I missed, and I want to see all of them.Lopez was, of course, icing on the cake. Her famous posterior really was worth watching. I just wish she paused to belt out a couple of Selena songs.Jon Voight was another matter. As much as I dislike Owen Wilson, he was positively Oscar worthy next to Voight and his terrible accent. Poor Lopez. I would have rather wrestled the snake than kiss Voight.Kari Wuhrer was easy on the eyes, and there was some spectacular action at the end. "},{"Title":"Fun, disgusting, irritating... music stars taking over.","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Saw this many years back, I found it really fun. Hell, I saw some of the documentary Making of Anaconda films and I was like Can't wait to see it. Never heard of any of actors, at that time, well J-Lo and Ice Cube were known and of course Jon Voight. OK, now... this film is usually for movie fans who loves those films where people are chased, or eaten by (impossibly) giant animals. Take example of Grizzly (1976), or Jaws (1975), or other Anaconda films. I must say that I am one of them, not a big fan, but I enjoy it a lot. This time, or perhaps for the first time, we have a giant snake that devours everything in the way... well almost everything.Let's start Story is typical, a group of people shots a documentary about tribes in Amazon jungle, and they helped out a snake hunter (Jon Voight) who used the crew as a help to hunt down a giant snake. Actually, he took them hostage... one man, took more than five people hostage, and no one can touch him. Why? I don't know. He is not armed. That is one weird part... In these movies, our walking meat does not think much critically. Script is also typical for these kind of films. Actors J- Lo, no talk here, I don't like her acting at all, although she give her best... Jon Voight... he steals the entire film, he was great! Calm, cold-blooded, insane snake hunter... he took the role and had a good fun with it. Eric Stolz, not too much from him... Owen Willson, a naive camera man... nothing special in that time, no future in comedy there at first, Ice Cube, a standard Brooklyn resident. Others... well... no comment, but I found it surprising to see Danny Trejo (Machete) on the beginning of the film.The snake was solid in few scenes, as a giant robot or puppet in some scenes, those were realistic, but CGI, damn that sucks. There's a lot of explanations about Anacondas, and some of them were showed in the film. But, are they valid?I say disgusting because I can't take out some of the ugly scenes from my head, but I say never mind, forget it and enjoy the film. Music stars are taking over? Yeah, the 90s were a memorable time for seeing some of the greatest music stars on screen. They are heroes. Yeah, heroes for attracting audience. Sit down relax and enjoy this popcorn film. "},{"Title":"Forgettable 1950's style creature feature","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Simply put, this is a 1950's giant monster film, in spite of being filmed in 1997. All that's missing is the radioactive fallout. Those who really like that sort of thing will enjoy this, but it's unlikely that anyone else will. The story goes like this- A National Geographic film crew travels to the Amazon River in a jungle boat to make a documentary on a long-lost tribe of natives. They then rescue a hunter from his sinking boat and take him on board, only to have him take the crew hostage and hunt for a legendary giant anaconda. I do have one major complaint, the Jon Voight character was just not believable. A psychotic former Catholic priest turned Captain Ahab wannabe? Give me a break! Other than that, the script features the usual array of stock characters and formula situations, although the leading lady (Jennifer Lopez) does more of the action scenes than the leading ladies of earlier times. There is the enormous man-eating anaconda of the title, with special effects that are OK, but nothing spectacular. Though some of the film was shot in Brazil, other parts were shot on sound stages and as a result, much of what's supposed to be the Amazon River looks as scary as the Jungle Ride at Disneyland. Still, it's not all bad. The actors perform well enough and there are a few suspenseful scenes. Termors it's not, but it'll deliver for die-hard giant monster film fans. "}{"Title":"Not a terrible movie... and Jon Voight steals the show","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Now we all know that Anaconda is a total B-movie with some bad effects and hilarious dialogue. But overall, this flic ain't that bad. The acting is solid and there are some genuinely decent action scenes. Lopez is pretty hot, Ice Cube is Ice Cube (acts the same in every single movie) and Jon Voight plays his character so over the top that he's awesome. His accent is a riot and all of his lines are just so ridiculous that it's great. I know people think why the hell is he in a movie of this calibre but you can tell that he's having an absolute blast playing this character. Considering that this was made in 1997 (cgi still pretty new) and on a limited budget, I think the filmmakers did a pretty good job of putting together a decent action/horror flic. It's supposed to be funny and over the top too, so it ain't a bad thing if you laugh at it. That's the sign of a good B-movie. "},{"Title":"Da^^n! Tha's a big snake!!!!","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" The funny thing about Anaconda is that it is your normal horror film, but it is set in the Amazon with a really big snake as the killer instead of the normal man in a mask. They might have lured J lo and Jon Voight this way. I say that because if asked to do a slasher flick they might have said no. Anaconda is a slasher flick, think about it the characters are established and you know what they are doing, plus we even get alittle love romance between Jennifer and Eric Stoltz...huh does this sound like a horror film..Bam the snake starts picking them off one by one. End of story Anaconda is a slasher film that changed things up a bit. Hey,it's still pretty good. "},{"Title":"Cool coils!","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Nothing, or better, almost nothing in this movie based on the real Anaconda (except the very good design of the animatronic model)... so come on, guys, you know it, this is a Movieconda that has nothing in common with the real thing. I can't believe, that some guys will take this movie for real. It was all illogical and exaggerated here. It was a monster-movie, and this is exactly what it is supposed to be...When i was a school kid, 14 or 15 years old, we had a visit of a snake-specialist in our school and so the opportunity to touch the real thing and wear this beautiful animal over our shoulders for a photo... Okay, this one was a young specimen of a green Anaconda, only approx. 2 meters long... but no one of us was bitten, constricted or swallowed ;-) All of us (except the most girls, but all boys ;-) liked this wonderful snake! But in spite of this experience i love this B-picture! It remembers me to the good old times, when i saw the old Jack Arnold flicks, like Them! or Tarantula. I loved them as a child and i love them until today, because they are totally unrealistic and exaggerated! I loved this monsters and i love it until today! It's like the gangster-movies like Last Man Standing, Miller's Crossing or Road to Perdition, where they shoot with Tommy-Guns (with a 4-foot long muzzle-blast of fire) for minutes (in the reality a 50-round rum is empty in 3-4 seconds), perforating 3-foot thick brick walls to dust, or shot straight through a car engine-block... this have nothing in common with the real Tommy-Gun too, but this is a Movie-Tommy... and exactly this is the reason, why i love this movies too... even if (or because) i own a real Tommy Gun and know the truth! And someone other mentioned it here before in his review The cheap, old 1950s monster-movies are declared as great classics of it's genre today. On the new DVD-editions of such 1950s monster-movies we found specials and making-of of this movies, and in interviews almost all of the movie historians admit, that they loved this movies as a child and loved it until today. The same with Anaconda... today it is declared as crap, totally crap... but someone will remember it in 20 or 30 years from now who saw it as ca child, and i am sure, it will be declared as a monstermovie-classic of the late 1990s then.Enjoy the movie, you may make your comments in the style of MST3K, but have fun...fun...fun! I give it 7 of 10 stars. For me it was a modern made journey back to my childhood and i add my lovely new snake girlfriend from this movie right beside Godzilla, Tarantula, King Kong, The Beast from 20,000 fathoms etc. to my childish monster-movie-heart that will never grew up ;-) "},{"Title":"Cheesy Fun","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda, the big hit from 1997 that launched Jennifer Lopez to fame, also set the standard for the rebirth of the bad B creature movies. Instantly after a spew of creature features including the popular Lake Placid and Deep Blue Sea followed. If you're going to endure Anaconda, you have to be in the right frame of mind. Giggly and stupid. Because Anaconda is in no way intelligent or remotely believable, but it sure is an entertaining and humorous monster romp in the swamp.Jennifer Lopez is a sassy reporter who leads a film crew into an isolated river in the Amazon where they hope to capture footage of a mysterious Native American tribe. But things turn out to be a nightmare when they come across a stranger who's boat has crashed (John Voigt in a horrible character) and is in desperate need of help. They find out he's hunting the man eating, enormous snake Anaconda. And they do cross paths with the killer snake, again and again.It promptly proceeds to ravage their boat, terrorize them from the deep and pick them off one by one as meals for it's enormous belly. The snake effects aren't terribly bad but there are some painful up-close moments, and what's with the roaring? Do snakes roar? I can't be sure but I have to say it's highly unrealistic. The plot moves steady and you're mostly likely not going to get bored with the short story. It finishes off with a satisfying climax, but in the end it's really just a so-so movie. Some mildly decent effects and a hot Jennifer Lopez thrown in the mix. Definitely not nightmare-inducing, but it's not a total waste. For a real creature thriller turn to the later film Lake Placid or the recent nail biter Black Water. If you're in for some mild tension and mindless fun, Anaconda is the monster run amok movie for you. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" OK, I like this movie, guilty as charged. I know its on the borderline of the rank SciFi B-Movie but I can't help it, I like this movie. The acting was actually not half bad in my opinion. Of course it's gonna SEEM bad because Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube are the main characters and their performances overshadow everyone else's. Eric Stoltz was actually pretty good, however he was in a coma for most of the movie so his performance was pretty much non-existent. Jon Voight was believable as the antagonist Paul Sarone, even though he seemed very unreal at times. Jonathan Hyde was probably the best one here as the rich, uneasy Warren Westridge. He was my favorite character. Owen Wilson is actually not a complete loser in this movie for once, however this is like his 2nd movie so that sure didn't last long. Kari Wuhrer was pretty bad in this movie. Vincent Castellanos wasn't terrible either, but he was always off to the side or something. Even Danny Trejo was in a small part here but I can't really judge him since he was only in one scene and only talked in Spanish on a radio. The FX weren't even all that bad, comparable to Jurassic Park in my opinion. However this movie was very unrealistic at times. Say what you want but I like this movie. I should at least get higher than a 4.1 in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Doesn't really achieve a camp classic status.","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" My Take Tired, by-the-numbers monster movie. If you've seen films like JAWS or DELIVERANCE, the premise of ANACONDA is nothing new We've all seen this set up before, a group of people thrust out from civilization, and completely out of experience and supplies, the jungle gets pretty rough on them. To add up to the challenge, circumstance throws in a bloodthirsty creature who happens to be hungry for anything, even if its Jennifer Lopez in need of a paycheck. But while it could have been at least a decent guilty pleasure, ANACONDA is just another monster movie with the seen that, done that, now here's just more of it feeling. Still, now matter how much this film was predictable and passé, I am happy to credit one of the best things about hate film, which is actually more creepier than any snake in the film. This is Jon Voight's character called Serone. He's the bad guy who's sole purpose is too simply learn his lesson the hard way. It's no spoiler he's the bad guy, with his squint-eyed looks, you know this guy's up to no good. Sure he camps it all up, but at least he's more lively than any of the other cast members, which happen to include big names like J-Lo, Ice Cube, Jonathan Hyde and Owen Wilson, who serve very little purpose but snake chow. Although it is pretty decent as a creature flick, with a few scenes of suspense (not to mention Serone), but the payoff is just a cheap, campy monster flick revamped with a bigger budget but still with B-grade quality of story and characters. The special effects don't help much either. While the animatronic Anaconda is OK, the CGI ones are just bad. Even the CGI in JUMANJI was more convincing. Despite a few occasionally seat-gripping moments, there are no real scares or suspense whatsoever. ANACONDA is not a terrible film, but it is still not a very good one, or at least a good one at that. Either I'm bored with it, or its bored with itself. Which ever, you'll still find a better show when you look up anacondas on a book. At least you'll know how to close it and end it.Rating *1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Do we rate box-office appeal or movie quality?","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" (1) When released in 1997 this film soared to the top of the box office list, and overall I believe it grossed about $70 million; achievements which I am sure more than satisfied its makers.(2) 100 external reviews featured on this database and over 200 IMDb User comments are mostly extremely negative even though so many moviegoers enjoyed this film.It seems worth while attempting to explain this dichotomy. Monster flicks have been with us almost since the invention of the cine-camera. Their heyday was probably during the inter-war years when low price afternoon matinées required cinemas to screen serials that would fetch their patrons in again week after week, and led to many groups of B movies based on comic book or newspaper cartoon characters, often routinely battling against assorted monsters. At this time patrons did not expect too much - I am old enough to remember various 'monsters', mostly filmed courtesy of a perspiring actor in an inflated rubber suit, and today many younger filmgoers now happily watch these same films when they are periodically revived on late night television. But such simplistic fare soon loses its appeal, and modern monster films are better regarded as direct descendants of 'Jaws'. Since 1975 film makers have been continuously attempting to improve on Jaws - many of us would say almost completely without success. Jaws success was a direct consequence of the limitations of the animated model on which it depended. Mechanical problems are reported to have resulted in Spielberg abandoning most of the sequences where it had been planned to use it. For most of the film the monster which was so dreaded by all the cast was not to be seen. Human imagination can make the unknown even more fearful than the most dangerous of familiar creatures, and this that helped make Jaws an outstanding success. But later film makers - even after the production of Anaconda more than 20 years later - have consistently shown that they have still not learned this lesson also previously taught by the 1942 horror film Cat People. For good measure Anaconda featured two versions of the monster snakes - a traditional mechanical model and an early CGI version - both almost universally panned as being totally unbelievable. The film makers should have reflected that the Sherlock Holmes story The Speckled Band (Film 1931) provided a much more effective sense of menace even though the snake was small (a swamp adder) and was not actually encountered until right at the end of the story. An even more extreme approach is to make the threat come not from a monster but a creature with which the audience is very familiar and fully comfortable. Hitchcock did this first in his masterpiece The Birds. Similarly the ultimate limit of familiarity is found in Lifeforce which threatens us by a space alien who appears to be a totally normal human being, and is even introduced completely naked so that we can see she is not hiding any concealed threats. This is a far cry from a 40 foot man-eating snake. Clearly however most filmgoers only want a story they can identify with and be carried along by. With Anaconda both visual and logical inconsistencies, which could easily have been avoided to create a technically far superior film, were of no concern to them. Even poor acting and indifferent direction also appears to have been acceptable to most of those who saw the film.How does one rate a film when this is the situation. Film makers no doubt wish to create artistically memorable works, but ultimately this is not an easy business and most Studio executives would probably be prepared to admit that their chief objective has to be to create financially successful movies. Like the starving artist in his garret creating paintings which will become priceless 50 years after he has died, a few actors and directors may strive to maintain their artistic integrity regardless of cost, but we all have to feed our families and ultimately the acid test of a film is whether it can provide bread and butter to those who create it. Consequently they will not play a scene straight, instead of purely for some artificial effect, if this might reduce the popular appeal of their final product. The critic may deplore the result but it is hard to fault a product carefully designed to have the greatest possible appeal to the largest possible audience.To me this film 'bombed' totally - the external review by ....and you call yourself a scientist on this database summarises many of my reasons for this opinion in a way that I do not have space to do here. But I did not even enjoy 'Jaws' and should not have watched Anaconda. It too difficult to become involved in monster stories - the reality checks keep biting and I quickly become a passive and very uninterested onlooker although still able to assess whether they are artistically and technically well made. Whilst recognising that for many people both these films may have a very comparable appeal, for me Jaws was worth 8 stars, but Anaconda was worth no more than three. If viewed uncritically as a classic fun film (in the same way as a revival of a 1930's B movie monster film), Anaconda might rate not three but seven. Since I was not expecting to enjoy it, why did I choose to watch? Partly because I wanted to see the very under-rated actress Kari Wuhrer, and partly because I hoped many of the critical IMDb User comments might have been from viewers who were not used to watching European style productions and were being unduly critical - sadly this was not the case. "},{"Title":"A film as devoid of life as a victim of the title creature","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" A rapper and a singer who think they can act and/or have any business acting join forces with several actors and a comedian and face a large snake. The film was put together for the sole purpose of putting said snake, the type of which is in the very title, on the screen, the justification for such is not... present, and the main reason for choosing to do such a film seems to be the fact that the effects could be achieved in 1997(and, looking back, heck, maybe even looking at it back then, the might have benefited from waiting some). Not all the effects are bad, though. The acting is largely poor. Voight sounds like Jean-Claude Van Damme, and at one point, he even pulls off a move that would have fit more if done by said actor. More or less everyone else is negligible. The writing is set up to make sure the snake can appear. The technical aspects aren't horrible, they're just not particularly impressive. Editing, camera-work and all is flat and uninspired. I suppose some males may be attracted to Lopez and Wuhrer. I'm not sure there particularly is anything for women in this, but hey, if you're a female and you dig the film, that's fine. This is essentially creature-horror for fans of B-movie cinema. I'm not sure anyone else will find anything particularly spell-binding herein. I recommend this to those who fall into the former group. Those wanting a proper portrayal of the reptile, as well as anyone expecting a solid performance from even the most dependable of the actors may want to consider if they wouldn't be better off skipping this one. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Monster movie with action, suspense and adventures on the Amazon","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This stirring picture concerns about a documentary film crew from National Geographic constituted by a motley group Jennifer Lopez Ice Cube, Eric Stolz, Jonathan Hyde, Owen Wilson, Kari Wuhrer traveling the Amazon river looking for a legendary Indian tribe and guided by Jon Voigh, playing a nutty, snake-obsessed hunter.But a great creature terrorizing the river, it turns to be a very large Anaconda with more 50-foot long. Meanwhile the bunch relationship each other till appearance the enormous snake. A poisonous and giant snake,attack at random and slither down the river, forest, jungle and slither around the boat ready to attack anyone on its path.The picture provides stirring and exciting amusement with hair-raising chills and creepy scares. The Anacandas, themselves , of course, are the real star stars and they are astounding terrifyingly and almost totally convincing.The snakes are made by animatronics and computer generator, as usual. Middling performances though the players reacting appropriately to becoming snake food. Rather sympathetic and exaggerated acting by Jon Voight as crazy and nasty snakes hunter. The picture displays atmospheric music score by Randy Edelman and colorful cinematography by Bill Butler, cameraman of ¨Jaws¨film. The movie is professionally directed by Luis Llosa, an expert action movies director (The sniper, The specialist) and habitual shooting on river Amazonas(Fire on the Amazon, eight hundred leagues down the Amazon). It's followed by inferior sequel  The hunt for the blood orchid(2004) by Dwight H. Little and created an authentic exploitation snakes sub-genre, such as  ¨Python I and II, Boa, Rattler, King Cobra , among others. "},{"Title":"That's A Tall Snake, But The Movie Falls Short...","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I wanted to like this film, I really did, and to a certain extent I did... just not enough to ever watch it again unless it was on TV and nothing else was on. This is not to mention that I'm not a big J-Lo fan, or Ice Cube...well, that was an understatement, but I'll let it go at that.You've got a film crew, a villainous hunter who basically takes them hostage so he can capture the world's largest and deadliest snake, and a very big snake that looks about as real as King Kong did back in the 1930's! There's not much suspense and very little scary moments that actually shock you. Most scenes you will already know before they happen. Why they made a sequel to this film is beyond my comprehension.So basically, I recommend this movie only if there is nothing else on TV to watch, and that's even stretching it a little, because I'm sure there's some reality show, soap opera, talk show, or cooking show on at all times! So in other words... BLAH! "}{"Title":"As bad as you want it to be ;)","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Having very little expectations I got a lot more than I expected. This movie is good enough as dumb and brainless entertainment. You shouldn't expect it to be anything more than that. The snake is decently animated, the characters are as cliché as they can be but they somehow are intriguing enough, Jennifer Lopez is hot as ever and the story has some good frights for its audience.Perfect if you had a rough day and want something to fill up a dull moment, without having to think about anything. Therapeutical as meditation, almost! Or just complete and utter crap for the serious film lover that can't stand anything without a decent storyline. ;) "},{"Title":"Fitzcarraldo it's not but entertaining it is...","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" The barge slowly making it's way along the sinuous jungle river with music playing, evokes memories of Klaus Kinski's visionary quest in Fitzcarraldo. In fact, John Voight's insane effort to trap a 40 ft. anaconda is slightly similar to Kinski's vision of dragging a steamship over a mountain in Fitzcarraldo. That however is where the similarities end. Anaconda is a monster movie masquerading as an adventure film. The huge snake could have just as easily been in a cave as the jungle setting. There is nothing original about Anaconda, but somehow the result is equal to, or slightly better than the sum of it's parts. Don't expect too much, and Anaconda will entertain. - MERK "},{"Title":"Snakes lose the will to live","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" From the beginning, the film does not promise anything really.Another attempt at Jaws just with another animal.This time its the snakes turn.Lack of storyline really kicks this film in the nuts from the beginning.The CGI then beats them all over again till their black and blue.The snakes just look so fake your to busy laughing at them to realise their squeezing characters to death.John Voight plays the disruptor of equilibrium and the only bearable character in the film. Jennifer Lopez on the other hand reinforces her ability to not act.Yes this film will give you thrills but your more likely to be laughing more than hiding behind the sofa. Anaconda is a case in which the sequel is actually better in every department.If your gonna rent it then rent a back up film to help remove all knowledge of this film in your mind. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie? Certainly Not!","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" A film crew headed by anthropologist Steve Cale and director Terri Flores journey through a river to find a mysterious Indian tribe and shoot a documentary on them. They save a guy called Paul Sarone from a sinking boat. He offers to help in their search for the tribe, but he is actually a snake-hunter looking for legendary anaconda snake, which is very long.I find it very laughable that many people hated this film because it was a dumb movie, not thought-provoking, or that the movie is ludicrous having a 50 feet anaconda killing people. I don't think they see the point.Does this movie try to be the best movie ever? No, but they certainly do achieve it being one of the best thrillers ever. Do you think they want smart audiences to know that this is a smart film? No. This movie is only meant to be an entertaining popcorn film!This movie is a great thriller. You get everything you want in a thriller. You have the good acting by Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube (surprising, yes), and Jon Voight playing a sinister role. You get the good but certainly not dumb story and you get the great action scenes which visual effects are realistic!With great cinematography, a great score, and everything you want in a good thriller, Anaconda is probably one of the best. Why do people hate Anaconda? I do not have an answer. Maybe they want to be in the majority who hated it. But let me say this if you aren't willing to watch this movie because people said it was bad, you're dumb. Watch it and you'll be proved wrong. Maybe not but give it a try. It certainly isn't one of the worst movies ever. "},{"Title":"I get sentimental when you hold me tight so come on squeeze me, but please don't tease me","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" **SPOILERS** Monster from the deep, the Amazon River, type of movie involving what seems like two giant anaconda constrictor snakes, who measure up to 40 feet each, that are on the prowl. The snakes attack a river barge with a film crew making a documentary about the mythical People of the Mist a tribe of natives lost to civilization for some 5,000 years called the Shirishama.The movie Anaconda starts off with what's obvious, with it's title and after the long introduction that we get, a giant anaconda attacking this radio post in the middle of the Amazon basin. The Killer snake has the person at the controls, snake poacher Danny Trejo, so terrified that after trying to hold the unseen serpent off with his hand gun, unsuccessfully, puts it to his head and pulls the trigger.Back on the barge the passengers and their skipper captain Mateo, Vincent Castellanos, start the long trip into the dark and unexplored Amazon Jungle and soon run into this weird Paraguayan river rat who's lost at sea, or in the river, Paul Sarone, Jon Voight. Up until Sarone shows up the movie seems to be going nowhere fast but as he tells the head of the documentary team Anthropologist Dr. Kale, Eric Stoltz, that he knows where to find the People of the Mist he's given practically cart blanch to do and go where he want's. What Sarone really wants is to sail into dangerous snake country that's been rumored to have a number of giant anacondas mating and breeding there.Sarone is obsessed with the giant anaconda, after almost being eating by one, and wants to captured one of these monsters to sell, and have displayed in the zoo of a major US city, for a cool million if not more dollars. It takes a while for the crew to realize to what Sarone is really up to but as he becomes more and more unstable and shows his true hand by getting a number of the people on the barge, including Captain Mateo, attacked and eaten by this giant anaconda it becomes obvious what Sarone is trying to do capture with a tranquilizer dart gun the killer anaconda alive! With The persons on board just having enough of the crazy snake obsessed Sarone they band together overpowering and then tying the lunatic up.Lost in the wilderness of the Amazon Basin, thanks to the misinformation given to them by Sarone, the new skipper Englishman Warren Westridge, Jonathan Hyde, accidentally runs the barge aground by this waterfall. Having cameraman Danny Rich, Ice Cube, and the director of the project Terrie Flores, Jennifer Lopez, together with Westbridge go out in the water to dislodge it and then sail home to the waterfront town of Manaus makes things even worse. It's then when we really get to see the giant snake go into action finishing off almost the entire crew and giving Sarone just the chance he needed by strangling, like a giant anaconda, with his legs the film projects assistant Denise Kalberg, Kari Wuhrer, who's guarding him and then make a clean getaway.During all this confusion Danny ends up killing the rampaging giant snake, with a number of basts from a rifle to it's head. Just when you think that the movie is about over, with it's star the big snake dead, another giant anaconda this one bigger and even more aggressive and deadly comes on the scene! You just know that the snake is out looking for a good meal by the way it AGGGGH regurgitates everything that it swallows, man and beast, being that it doesn't consider them to be grade A quality including****SPOILER ALERT*****the wild and crazy as well as dangerous Paul Sarone.Almost unwatchable final sequence that has the big snake have it out with both Terrie and Danny who are being held as bait by the craze Sarone, in order to trap and capture the killer snake, only to have it turn the tables on him by catching Sarone with his guard down, and using up his last tranquilizer dart. Looping Sarone with a number of giant coils the snake then snap crackle and pop the guy to death.There's two more scenes with Sarone and the snake that are so gruesome and at the same time eye opening, and also fascinating, that I just can't find any words to describe them. You'll just have to see them for yourselves and then have your stomach pumped out in order to get you back to normal!Fairly good special effects make the snake, or snakes, look really frightening. The fact that the snakes move, in and out of the water, at lighting-like speeds makes the anacondas even more dangerous in being able to catch their pray, before even throwing their steel-like giant loops around them, and then crushing or suffocating their victims to death. Jon Voight's acting is without a doubt the highlight of the movie, eclipsing even the killer snakes. With a psycho-like grin on his face, that were told was the result of an anaconda trying to swallow him head-first, and what seems like a cheesy German accent straight out of Hogan's Heroe's Voight made every scene that he was in count. Even after Voight was dispatched by the giant anaconda towards the end of the film he still had enough left, or was it that the snake had enough of him, to make a surprise unannounced and final, it's just too much to expect for anyone to even try to think about it, guest appearance! "},{"Title":"Don't Be Such A Stereotype !!!","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I feel people are being stereotype on this movie and pretend that they didn't enjoy this movie because it is Jennifer Lopez movie and that people will think that you are lame. I in fact enjoy every minute of this movie.The National Geographic crews are on the search for the Amazon people; along the way they pick up the stranger that turn out to be the crazy Anaconda Hunter. He then seizes their ship before taking everyone into the forbidden area.I remember this was such a hit when it first came out in 1997; it managed to get No. 1 spot in the US Box-Office and was a very successful movie in everyway. I still remember that every seat in the theatre was full when i went to see it in 97. But somehow after couple of years after Jennifer has become famous people then decide to trash this movie. I think the movie got a brilliant cast, actually before this movie Jennifer, Ice Cube, Owen, and Keri are all unknown actors so why people being so harsh on them? I don't understand.At that time (almost 10 years now) with this technology and CGI it is brilliant, it look so awesome with the robotic snake and how it move and how fun it was people Vs big snake. The Storyline and the script wasn't bad at all, every 5 min there is something happen so you'll get bored. It was a perfect popcorn movie. The acting wasn't great but isn't that bad, and the score is very good it go along with the movie really well add with spine chilling and trilling effect.Overall the movie is really fun to watch, don't be such a typecast and go along with what other have to say. I say this movie is a guilty pleasure movie.Reason To Watch Watch Wannabe Actors Before They Becoming Stars. And Also Watch Robotic Really Big Anaconda.Reason Not To Your Dislike Of Monster Movie.Rating 7/10 (Grade B-).Please Yes/No After Read. Thanks "},{"Title":"A Decent Monster Flick","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda is a typical creature/monster horror film. I actually enjoyed this movie and when I first watched it (I think I was 9 or 10) I was actually scared to some degree and even today it isn't the easiest thing for me to watch. So in my opinion Anaconda did full-fill in the way that it did manage to scare me at a young age.However Anaconda has many flaws and is nowhere near perfect. First of all I found many of the parts boring and a little cheesy. Some of the CGI was very life-like (though nowhere near movies like Jurassic Park) but in some places the digital effects where a little off-tune. In other words some of the CGI looked like it was from a good movie and some from a drastically bad film. The acting was for the majority relatively good but had a lot of room for improvement.This movie however is definitely the best you can get from a giant snake movie (Python, Boa etc. all were terrible). The anacondas did look scary and realistic half of the time but in other places they weren't fooling anybody. Overall this is a unique and decent monster flick, not perfect but not as bad as most people say it is.My Rating 6.1/10 "},{"Title":"Before snakes invaded planes, they ate Owen Wilson","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" my gosh. this is such a guilty pleasure i cant even begin to describe the feeling i get when i hear John Voight with a weird accent, J-lo when here booty was in prime and of course the classic ice cube line  there are snakes that get that big . So in honor of the upcoming release i sat down and enjoyed this classic. For one thing it took serious guts to decide to make a movie that at times leaves its viewers confused think  is this supposed to be a comedy or a thriller or just one terrible film. Well i decided to give it a 6 because its so terrible its worth to pickup and say  hell the hell is owen Wilson and jlo still getting work. Its really hard to imagine that the man who gave us great movies like  wedding crashers  and  zoolander  would even be in a thriller when hes better at comedy. This movie has it all, a mad man, a sexy biologist who has the time to research and flirt with the other cast. Hell, theires even a guy with a British accent "},{"Title":"harmless,fun action adventure","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" this is a typical switch your brain off action adventure set on the amazon. a good cast including a young Owen Wilson star in this fun enjoyable movie.i particularly enjoyed Jon voights performance as the stop at nothing snake catcher-Paul sarone.j-lo puts in a early movie role and the musican line up is completed by rapper ice cube.the snake looks pretty realistic at times and the scenery and photography are excellent.this is a movie you can enjoy with a few beers and a takeaway and not have to concentrate too much.to sum this movie up would be a good cast of experienced actors in a harmless fun action adventure film that will make you laugh and scream out loud. "},{"Title":"Lots of self irony","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Few people seem to realize it, but this is actually a tongue-in-cheek adventure comedy. It has a great deal of self-irony. I would call this an honest film in the best of Hollywood traditions.Take the golf-simulator they have brought along on the boat! Or the Bordeaux red wine in 40 Deg Celcius humid tropics. Only in a comedy.There's a kind of American troops in Vietnam analogy over this. Happy go lucky with no idea what they are heading into.One thing bothers me though - how much food does a reptile need? As I understand it, they can go as long as crocodills as they are cold blooded and shut down their metabolism between snacks.The scenery was quite nice.This movie is a good choice for some pure entertainment. "}{"Title":"Bad film","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This is a bad movie. I really hated it. I found it to be utterly boring and devoid of meaning. Terrible, terrible film. Jenifer Lopez is extremely poor in it. Just a bad film. One should avoid this film at all costs.I watched it only out of sheer boredom on a day where I had nothing else available to occupy my time with. Ice Cube does not get to show any of his acting merits not that there is much talent within him anyways. The special effects are not even all that impressive either, and considering this is supposed to be thriller I would say that that is a huge flaw.I mean if you are looking for a film that has no thought in it then this is a good one to watch, but if you want a true thriller then check out something like Jaws. "},{"Title":"They should take away Jon Voight's union card.","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I gave this movie a 5 instead of a 1 because in the beginning I thought that maybe this would be a good movie. WRONG WRONGER WRONGEST... okay I know those aren't really words but I have just spent over an hour cheering for a giant snake to eat the cast of this movie.Best acting in this film... an unconscious man. That will tell you something.Ice Cube and Jennifer Lopez were not bad in this film and neither was Eric Stolz. They should be more than angry that so many scenes were given to that joke of an actor, Voight.The absolutely bottom of the barrel acting by Jon Voight dragged this film right down the drain. That fake silly sounding accent of his was only eclipsed by the stupider faces that he makes while he talking.Why would the director allow him to speak in that ridiculous manner? Did Jon Voight have some kind of pull to act the way that he did? Shame... Shame... Shame on the director.The special effects and some of the action scenes are the only saving grace for this real stink bomb of a film. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but the snake was too small.","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Well, it isn't the acting, and it isn't the monster that makes this film. The acting are at best mediocre. And the monster snake is way too small.If i recall it right, it was ten meters long. This is supposed to be a monster movie, and they don't manage to make the monster bigger than the animal can become in real life! The official record for Anaconda's was 8.45m and weighed 229 kilo. But there is many who claim to have seen bigger specimens. It is widely assumed that Anacondas in rare cases can reach even 20 meter. So yes the snake in the movie, becomes kind of puny, although really cool. Yet. somehow this movie works. Strangely enough, the fact that the computer animated Anaconda never could fool anyone with eyes, helped the movie. It gave it a sort of comic book meets the movies, kind of feeling. I really liked it. You might be surprised after what I have just said, when I say I gave this movie a vote of 6. But it is something about it that is just plane good. Don't ask me what, cause I don't know. But I thoroughly enjoyed myself when I saw it. It is well worth the money to rent. But after seeing first Anaconda and then King Cobra (Which is nowhere near as good as Anaconda), I really wish they could make a real monster snake movie. Perhaps they could make a monster movie about the Cryptozoological Succuriju Gigante. A snake that according to the Indians native to the Amazon Jungle, can reach lengths of more than 40 meter's, and a weight of 5 tons. That's what I call a monster!!! "},{"Title":"This film was supposed to be my big break...","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  ...and it turned out to be a BIG disaster!, so said J.Lo's character. One might wonder if art was imitating life after viewing this film. Actually this film is not as bad as some may claim. Hopefully will not have to regurgitate like the Anaconda in this movie and the snake does get a good amount of screen time.The Anaconda does look decent(real) enough (unlike the sequel). Mr Voight does a good job, J.Lo and Wuhr are great to look at, but the waterfall going upwards and the snake screaming does take a lot of imagination. Other than that, its a much better movie than the sequel.OK Baby birs, just sit back, get some popcorn, laugh at the antics and enjoy the movie.  "},{"Title":"ONe of the Few Racial Stereotyping Breakthrough Films","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  If not the only one to allow race to not be a factor in who does what.Our Aryan male, Eric Stoltz, would be immobilized for much of the adventure (feebly returning toward the end, yet still not saving the day).The celebrity, Jon Voight would become the villian.And the Villian, Jonathan Hyde, would have the heroic death.In the end, there would be two non-white ethnics, Lopez and Ice Cube, to battle the snake and essentially save the day. If only more movies in Hollywood could follow this example. Or be creative in what they do.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrible movie!","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The anaconda was so fake looking that it made the whole movie not worth watching.  The people who made this movie must think that the audience is clueless.  No snake of that size can move that quickly.  Sure it has a quick strike but not overall speed in a chase.  The snake can not reach twenty or so feet in the air without being able to climb something.  The waterfall scene had the snake snatch that guy from over twenty feet up without slithering up something to get him.  Simply impossible.  Also the sounds were so stupid.  They practically had this thing growling like a lion.  The computer generated snake looked like just that, a computer generated snake!  Jon Voight did an OK job, but the rest of the cast stunk.  Ice Cube was horrible, J-Lo sucked, and the one guy (besides Voight) who can actually act was incoherent and practically comotose the better part of the movie (Eric Stoltz). "},{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  There was a reasonable enough amount of suspense and tension to make this creature feature worthwhile. For the most part the special effects and animatronics are convincing and the cast is actually quite good. It features many recognizable names most notably J. Lo and J. Voigt. Ice Cube, Owen Wilson, Eric Stoltz are also participants. I wish the lovely Kari Wuhrer had a more prominent role. She could hold her own with Ms. Lopez. There are several well done scenes such as the emergency tracheotomy performed by Paul and the regurgitation of that same character by the anaconda amongst others. Anyway if you are looking for a few solid thrills this film should suffice. 7/10. "},{"Title":"You've wronged me Anaconda, you've wronged me in so many ways...","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Let me begin by stating that I realized going into this movie that it wasn't going to be a real think-piece inept team of 'explorers' or 'researchers' travel down remote part of even remoter river, get harassed by deadly snake, unintentional hilarity ensues. The main problems I have with Anaconda are as follows a.) How does a film with such a god-awful storyline ever get made?; b.) why is Ice Cube in said film?; c.) come on, do I really need to continue? I'm almost disappointed in myself for taking time to write this, but I feel it to be my duty to prevent others from making the same mistake I did and losing 2 hours to this complete and utter brain-cell assassin. If you, or anyone you know, ever feels compelled to go out and rent this flick, or if it's ever on television and you think, Oh, J. Lo's in it, it can't be that bad, think again. Remember Gigli? Enough said. "},{"Title":"Deliciously bad...","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Some films manage to throw off the normal, restrictive shackles of criticalanalysis, and go surging out into hitherto uncharted (and unchartable) territory. Anaconda is one such. Hackneyed acting allied to a dodgy script, and no discernible sense of suspense, doesn't prevent it from attaining a special, thrilling sort of greatness. On the contrary; it sneaks a 5/10. Why? Because it's so terribly, terribly bad it's gone right through to the other side and become good again.On an altogether sadder note. Poor old John Voight. Consider his slide fromMidnight Cowboy, in all its poignancy, to this Sharing the screen with Ice Cube, a lady who might as well act with her arse and be done with it, and anappallingly unrealistic computer-animated snake that might have been bettered by a sock-puppet.If this sounds like your sort of thing - watch Piranha, another, earlier strain of post-Jaws, post-modern silliness. Must be something in the water, I guess...  "},{"Title":"forgettable, though there are some high points","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Corny but mildly entertaining monster movie about an ambitious film crew that sets sail in the deepest, darkest jungles of the Amazon in search of the 'lost' people of the mist. Their seemingly peaceful voyage goes horribly awry however when they incur the wrath of giant, man-eating snakes along the way. Leaden pacing and unremarkable creature effects mar the film's impact, but talented actors and an exciting, action-packed climax help breathe much needed life into the sub par material. The film's greatest strength&#x97;believe it or not&#x97;is the casting of Voight who goes overboard in his campy role as a former priest-turned-deranged and remorseless snake poacher. Beautiful, breathtaking scenery helps hold your interest through the dull moments. **½ "}{"Title":"A Brilliant Thriller! Highly Entertaining!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"     Anaconda is a great edge of your seat thriller. Jennifer Lopez and Owen Wilson were fabulous! Also, Jon Voight made a brilliant performance as he did in Varsity Blues an Heat. This is a great thriller. I give it a 10 out of 10!!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Nothing like a giant snake to ruin your documentary.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I like my movie creatures huge, menacing, and able to kill lots of people. Therefore it should come as no surprise that I really love this movie where other people really do not. It may also help that I am a fan of Eric Stoltz-who's character is taken out entirely too early leaving behind the characters that you just dont' care about that much. The bad guy of the story though, is really really a jerk and I found myself wishing that the snake would just swallow him whole. A lot of the graphics look fake and unrealistic, but the story isnt' bad and it is mildly entertaining. I would watch it again and maybe even a third. Don't go in with high expectations and you will enjoy the story more.  "},{"Title":"Terrible FX","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie was ruined completely bt its terrible effects. I know that this movie was made when CGI was not fully developed but that just means that they shouldn't have used them. The snake looks incredibly fake when it is designed by CGI but does not look bad as the mechanical model/puppet, which is mostly head shots anyways. Ice Cube was good in this but he is the only character I liked. "},{"Title":"the shark of jaws is replaced by a snake","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  this is not just a movie about a monster that kills people... ok it is about monster (a giant snake called anaconda) that kills people, but the movie is great. i could tell u it has great cast with people like jennifer lopez, jon voight, eric stoltz, danny trejo, ice cube and kari wuhrer, i could say it has suspense and terror, i could say it has ghostly sceneries, but i won't. all i'm gonna say about this movie, is that it has a giant snake called anaconda, and boy, what snake. the snake is beautifully made, is fast, lethal and very strong. making her one of the most scary animals ever put on screen since the shark in jaws. if u like horror movies with animals this is must see, only outbest by the movie deep blue sea and of course the classic jaws. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing a preview for it at the movies, and I didn't want to see it. In fact, I never saw it until it came on TV. By the end I was shocked. I liked it! Its about a group of people on an Amazon river, in Brazil. They are there studying a tribe. But things go wrong when they run into a man (John Voight) who wants to capture a giant 40ft Anaconda that kills half the crew. It's a great action movie to watch with a few friends. The graphics were good, the acting was good, and it had an a good plot. When you see this at your local video store, don't pass it up. Don't be fooled by the cover or brief summary. I hope you enjoy Anaconda as much as I did! "},{"Title":"The jar said peanuts, but a snake popped out.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This is a movie who's sole purpose is to be scary. Think about it. A huge snake that could crush you like a twig. It fails. Maybe it has something to do with the seriously weak CGI that compose the giant snake in many scenes? Maybe it's just me, but just maybe, the snake would have been more scary and terrifying if the snake looked realistic and life-like rather than something baked up by the minds at Industrial Light and Magic ... and it's rated PG-13? Yeah, okay. Can't say it any clearer than that.As for the cast, they're left with nothing to do, but collect a paycheck, die off one by one and hope they can forgive themselves for slumming it next to a CGI snake. Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube add some ethnic flavor to the cast if nothing else while Jon Voight is seriously out-of-place as the snake hunter.For a film that's meant to make you squirm, at best, all it accomplishes is bewilderment at why you've decided to view this less-that-stellar entry into the category of monster films. You certainly didn't tune in for the crappy story and you certainly aren't going to be scared and it's not so-bad-it's-funny either. Jaws is dated by today's standards, but it's still the grand daddy for the genre. Anaconda can only pine to be remembered in that way ... any way. "},{"Title":"My number 149 movie ( contains story )","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  ´Anaconda is my number 149 movie´. The film deals with a group that wants to make a video film about an Indian tribe that lives in the Amazon area. But what they find there, is not an Indian tribe, but a big snake, called Anaconda.  This film is a kind of horror-monster flick that does not concentrate on the story or the actors or the horror, but on the Anaconda. And that is a big mistake. It should have concentrated more on the horror ( like Jaws e.g. ). The actors are a bit annoying, and the FX are not that good. But nevertheless I liked this movie, because it was ... just good. I recommend this only to fans of these movies.  My rating  8/10.  "},{"Title":"This movie is pure fun","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Let's say you're sick of movies about giant beasts attacking people. There have ceretainly been a lot of them recently, (Deep Rising, Mimic, Lake Placid, Deep Blue Sea, The Relic). You only wish these movies would have something else to offer. Well, Anaconda does. It is the only one that does. What it has to offer is John Voight as the villain and one of the coolest villains I've seen in a long time. He is single-handedly the reason this movie is good. He is really scary, and some would say he's over the top. I'm not sure if I would agree. He is clearly as evil as you get, but I think his character is realistic and that's what makes him so good. When he tries to help the group they question everything he says and yell at him. So when he turns on them, how can one say it's over the top? The fact is most of the cast doesn't do much. Owen Wilson is always amazing, but here his part is so barely written that he is just okay. Lopez doesn't do anything, and Cube is alright. The show is all Voight's. Sure the snake looks fake at times, but forget the dam snake. You watch this movie because John Voight plays an amazing villain, (he had a similar role in Varsity Blues), and you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Fake Snake Terrorizes Fake Actors","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I like a good (bad) B-movie as much as the next person. But a movie that takes itself seriously as this one did belongs in the Hall of Shame. The computer effects weren't very good, the acting terrible, and Jon Voight's accent!? The only thing I enjoyed was the locale. Pray there is no sequel! "},{"Title":"Hmmmm.....","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie I was breath-taken. But now I have watched it about 4 times and I don't like it as much anymore.  You can easily Tell The anaconda is fake as and their is not enough blood, and it is definitely not scary at all.Of course, you probably know what this film is about! A bunch of people go deep into the Amazon and some guy lets them into this abandon place that is swirming with dangerous snakes.Jennifer Lopez is a sensation now, she did much better in Out Of Sight, she doesn't even get recgnoised for this film anymore.All in all, I don't recommend Anaconda that much.My rating  5 and three quarters/10 "}{"Title":"Could have been really great, but it is verrrryyy boring...","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  **Probably includes spelling mistakes**                              Anaconda has a great plan for making a good scary actionmovie. In the hands of                               movie-masters it would have been a masterpiece. The movie starts off good and                               smooth but gets to be very boring. A TV-team gets out in the Amazonas to make                               a documentary of some spectacular Indian-people. Instead they run into a big                               anaconda. They also run in to their last hope, a slimy hunter (Voight).                               Unfortunately he seems to be a complete psycho and soon you find yourself                               wondering ''who's the bad guy in here?''. The main factor of the fact that the                               movie is boring is the fact (that was a funny line) that the Anaconda itself looks so                               incredibly silly and extremly unreal. Yes, I would like to say that this is the worst                               special effects I've ever seen. The 3D is so bad that... I don't know what but it is,                               you have my word on it!  "},{"Title":"it could have been better","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda was a good movie but it could have been better. For one thing anacondas don't make screeching noises. Or anacondas dont slither fast on land. Some things on the movie was really fake. But on the other hand i liked it. It wasn't as creepy as i wanted it to be, but it was still creepy, just the thought of big snakes eating people. I would recommend this film to anyone who likes snake movies. Or if you like a good movie that gives you a good squeeze. "},{"Title":"This one took my breath away","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda is one of those movies that really gives you a scare (although this one is made with a considerable low budget).The movie has a plot, great actors, and nice locations. The only thing that's sad, is that you can see the snake is fake. In the 80's this could have been a great movie. But despite the low f/x I still rate it an 8 on 10 because          1) It has Jennifer Lopez in it          2) It scares a lot          3) It has Jennifer Lopez in it who gets monkey blood over her body, which makes her even more attractive.  "},{"Title":"Could have been really great, but it is verrrryyy boring...","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  **Probably includes spelling mistakes**Anaconda has a great plan for making a good scary actionmovie. In the hands of movie-masters it would have been a masterpiece.  The movie starts off good and smooth but gets to be very boring. A TV-team gets out in the Amazonas to make a documentary of some spectacular Indian-people. Instead they run into a big anaconda. They also run in to their last hope, a slimy hunter (Voight). Unfortunately he seems to be a complete psycho and soon you find yourself wondering ''who's the bad guy in here?''. The main factor of the fact that the movie is boring is the fact (that was a funny line) that the Anaconda itself looks so incredibly silly and extremly unreal. Yes, I would like to say that this is the worst special effects I've ever seen. The 3D is so bad that... I don't know what but it is, you have my word on it!  "},{"Title":"Destined To Be A Cult Classic!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Sorry, nay-sayers, I went to see this little gem twice in one month upon it's release and simply loved it.  Here's why  adequate acting, Ice was better than expected; Kari displayed the sexual allure expected of her; Jennifer acted out her role well; Voight great hamming it up as the snake-hunter; rest of cast OK.  Plot takes a backseat but that's to be expected in this kind of flick.  Marvelous cinematography filmed in the Amazon - simply beautiful scenery. Musical score one of best parts of this film as it creates the appropriate tone,mood and atmosphere throughout the movie. And now to the snake special effects - yes, sometimes they seem fake at times, but real at others, and the combined effects comes across as a surreality, not bad!  Movie critic, Leonard Maltin called the effects hokey and gave Anaconda an overall 2 star rating; whereas critic Roger Ebert disagreed and gave it a stunning 3&1/2 stars after a writing a lengthy review! I give Anaconda a solid 3 star rating in their 4 star system and a solid 8 stars in this one; I predict this flick will become a cult classic and many of you will have to eat your words!  In the final analysis, a fun, entertaining and sometimes scary movie. "},{"Title":"They got snakes out there dis BIG?!?","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Wow, I never thought so many people wouldn't get a joke and then advertise it to the world.  To all the user commenters who were disappointed I have only one word for y'all morons.  The comic acting was of the best kind possible unintentional.  The effects were so fake that they were clearly meant to provoke laughter rather than shock.  Kari W. plays the role she was meant to play, a cheap slut, and Ice Cube presents us with one of the finest performances as a dense, disbelieving, reluctant cameraman ever.  And isn't it great fun to watch just how low Jon Voight can go?  "},{"Title":"A film so bad it was good","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I didn't expect Anaconda to win any awards, so I was not looking for character development or deep plot when I went into the theatre. Indeed, I was just looking for cheap thrills and some funny one liners. I got more than I expected. The acting was so over-the-top bad in this film (especially Jon Voight) that it was hilarious. The snake was so fact that I had tears of laughter running down my face every time I saw it. Characters in this film did things so stupid that I actually hoped the snake would eat them, then laughed uncontrollably when it did. Truly, this is one of the worst films I have ever seen, but at the same time I was in such a good mood after I saw it that I recommended it to all my friends who wanted a good laugh. It has become such an underground cult hit that many cheap horror movies coming out in the near future are actually being marketed as This Year's Anaconda! If they are as funny as this movie, I would pay to see them "},{"Title":"Oh, Please . . .","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie is probably the cheapest funded in history. Yes, it's true. I have no idea what the producer was thinking when they spent money on this. The movie's plot itself is okay. The acting is really poor and along with the two cent effects, this movie is the worst to date. "},{"Title":"Bad special effects, but not a bad horror film","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Steven Spielberg really has had more of an affect in Hollywood than any other director except for maybe Hitchcock and Welles.  Films like Deep Blue Sea and Lake Placid and this one use techniques that I think he developed. There really is something horrifying when a camera films legs thrashing about under water as it approaches them, and then just before you think the person is going to get eaten, the camera cuts away to a shot of them on the surface, then back underwater and then the final fatal shot of the victim getting eaten or in this case suffocated and squeezed to death.  Luis Llosa does an adequate job of creating tension, but the film really is a straight to video production.  It's not a bad film, it's just not that great either. However, the cast in here really is quite good.Jennifer Lopez is a terrific actress as she was sexy and tough in Out Of Sight.  Eric Stoltz has always been a dependable B actor that lends believability to any character that he plays, take The Prophecy and Pulp Fiction.  Jon Voight is an Oscar winner and he was very good in Varsity Blues and even Ice Cube has shown us that he can act as he was great in Boyz N The Hood.  And when I watched them in this film, my question was, what were they doing here?  It feels like the talent in here should have been used for a better more ambitious project.  I would honestly like to see this cast in a more serious film because I really feel that they have much more to offer than this average B horror film.Anaconda has some decent suspence in it and most of that is because of the water shots.  The acting, as I have mentioned, is quite good too.  But there is just something not quite right with this film.  The snake really looks fake in many shots and the movie feels cheap.  I wasn't really scared but I wasn't bored either.  What you end up with is an entertaining film that is worth getting for an evening if you don't mind shelling out $3.00 for a rental.  Simply put, this is a fun movie and it is not worth the sub 5 rating that imdb comments have given it, but it is not a classic horror film by any stretch.  "},{"Title":"a solid four out of ten","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I'm not sure exactly what didn't work in this movie.  I almost believed in the snakes.  I almost believed in the characters' motivations, actions and reactions.  Anaconda is better than most TV fare...but that's faint praise.  "}{"Title":"What a waste of time!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is a bad movie. As in bad bad. As in an insult to your intelligence bad. As in a bad potboiler originally meant to be released theatrically so that the producers will have some extra money to nourish their family. Kind of get the gist where I'm getting at?Prior to seeing this film, I had low expectations. I was right not only on that, but low overall because my I.Q. is now at least 20 points lower from seeing this film, which would probably explain the semi-incoherence of this review. The saddest part about that is I won't only not get those points back, but also my money and my time.So why did I see 'Anaconda' in the first place? I thought it was going to be at least fun. I should always second guess from now on, because a guess can be dangerous. There was no fun or suspense at all in this movie because the characters were so stupid you couldn't care less about them or their fate. (And I suppose the writers considered us as idiots to think the line Is it just me are does this jungle make you really horny? is funny.) As for the snake, well, uh, didn't look too convincing. It was computer generated, and a middle schooler could of done a much better job using photoshop. So I couldn't even care about the movie's monster. When you can't care for anything in a film, nothing comes together, and you have a mess.And then you have 'Anaconda'. "},{"Title":"What a chock","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  There's one good reason to see this movie. Watch for the scene where a black panther gets yoked by the snake. Pay particular attention to the expression on the panther's face, right before it gets attacked. You wanna talk about a surprised look? I have never laughed so hard in my life. This movie is the equivalent of the result of a stick of dynamite dropped into an overflowing septic tank. "},{"Title":"Really bad movie","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I first saw Anaconda on a plane two years ago and because I had heard mixed reviews about it - I thought I would watch it. Hey, it had Eric Stolz and Ice Cube in it so of course it could not be bad. Well I was wrong. The Anacondas were so fake that the supposedly scary scenes were more like a comedy. It was funny seeing the reactions of the people on the plane. The older people took their headphones off and the younger people were laughing all the way through it.Eric Stolz probably was the better performer in this movie even though he was out of action most of the film and Ice Cube and Jennifer Lopez gave good performances and it is good to see that this movie did not ruin their careers.Jon Voight was the worst performer in this film I could not understand a word he was saying and it was so obvious how he managed to get on board.This is one movie that you only need to see once and never again. "},{"Title":"Hey it was alright the first time I saw it!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda is one of those films where you only want to see it once( or not at all). Don't get me wrong I was entertained for an hour and a half, its not boring its just cheezy. The snake in this is so fake and unbelievable, its just funny. If you want a laugh this is one's for you. I would give Anaconda 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good for a few laughs...","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  If you watch this expecting a sophisticated thriller, you'll be very disappointed.  But if you see it for what it is -- a cheesy B-movie with cheap special effects, hokey dialogue, and actors who are clearly not taking it that seriously, you might enjoy it.  I did.  Granted, like most guys I'd tune in to watch Jennifer Lopez read the phone book for an hour and a half, but believe it or not,  this movie has more to offer than just Jennifer Lopez.  It's easy to follow and is actually pretty entertaining provided you're not expecting too much...  "},{"Title":"Good creature feature.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I did a report on the anaconda when this movie came out, and I must admit it is an interesting animal, and I used some info from the movie, but the movie portrays it more violently than it really is.  The movie is very violent at times, but a fast-paced, action-packed movie.  Well done documenting the snake.  Although the snake eating someone is somewhat yucky.  "},{"Title":"cheap as they come","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie is so cheap, fake, and unrealistic, that I could have filmed it in my back yard. All I would need is six of my friends, some action figures, and a rubber snake. The behavior of the snake was so unrealistic-I wanted to vomit. If Anacondas had died out with the Dinosaurs, then maybe this movie could be believable (to some extent). But the Anacondas are still here and do not act like they do in this sorry film. In fact, Anacondas usually try to avoid human contact. Some of the things the snake did in this film would be impossible for a real snake to perform. The acting, what can I say, was sorry. As for the film itself, well, set it on fire. It is nothing but worthless trash. "},{"Title":" Better than most thought","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  So, there is this really rainy afternoon, and you decide Let's watch Anaconda, it is supposed to be bad, but what the hell. And then this You get a film which is much better than most people announced it was. The actors were o.k. (with a brilliant Jon Voight, there is nothing better than a GOOD baddie), the snake was done quite well, and the plot was not as shoddy as expected. Take the time and compare it to the immensely overrated The lost world. On one hand you have an A-Movie with no story whatsoever, crappy actors and been there,done that-special effects, on the other hand this B-Movie, where everyone states that this is a miss, and there you have at least one good actor (I also liked Ice-T and the brit), a quite well-done snake and a plot you could at least follow. Take the time, watch it "},{"Title":"Jon Voight runs the show","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda stands out like a bright beacon amongst terrible blockbusters like Lost in Space and Godzilla. Here we have a cheap film, with a simple plot that works, and of course Jon Voight performs as an ultra-sleezy snake hunter. Ice Cube is also here, the film would have been even cooler if Eazy E would have been around to join him. Roland Emmerich should watch Anaconda and if we are really lucky the snake will come out of the screen and eat him up. "},{"Title":"o.k. it's absolute pulp, but..","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  With this kind of film you don't talk about getting involved with the film anymore, or how real it seems. You're just counting corpses and think how many must die in how much time for the film to end in 90 minutes. But I think the snake movement bits were quite well done. I even think that the movie started out with a computer wizz kid making a snake, and that the film was being made around it later. But I think the makers didn't entirely fail in making entertainment. At one point you are beyond the irritation with predictable and ingredient films. "}{"Title":"So bad it was good!","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This film was so cheesy and unbelievable that it transcended its shortcomings to become one of those so bad it was good movies.  Seeing  Jon Voight's hammy acting job as the snake-hunting missionary is worth the  price of a rental. Throw in a little sex appeal from Kari Wuhrer and Jennifer Lopez (think thin, tight, white tee-shirts on the Amazon) and you've got  yourself a winner. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda has a good cast of characters. I thought they did a good job. The snake, however, needed work. It looked real at times, but still could have been done better. Overall, a decent movie. "},{"Title":"what are those people talking about?!","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I don't know why everyone always says what a horrible movie this is, i mean  ok the plot is kinda dumb but as for special effects and scariness they  were pretty good. I guess those people just saw the parts where they were  talking about the indians or those people in the boats, that part was  pretty boring.  "},{"Title":"A direct-to-video action movie that was released in the theaters","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  After seeing Anaconda, I was amazed that this movie was released in theaters  and that so many people paid theater prices to see it. This movie looks  like it cost $5 to make. Anaconda does provide some VERY cheap thrills, but  that is about all. The major problem is that you can tell the snake is  fake, making it hard to believe that any of the characters are in danger.  Anaconda does not try to present itself as anything but an action thriller,  which is perfectly fine. However they should have spent more money of the  effects. "},{"Title":"A Pure Dissapoitment","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" There is a movie with John Voight, Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, Owen Wilson, and a giant anaconda, oh dear god. As a kid I loved watching Anaconda, but after seeing it again I must have been crazy as a kid. I think I liked the fact that a giant snake was eating people. The basic premise is that Lopez and her boyfriend I guess are leading an expedition into the Amazon and tend to make a documentary or something. They run into John Voight, a strange man with a terrible accent. Chaos soon ensues when a giant snake terrorizes the passengers and it is up to them to survive or get eaten.Let's start with the cast, the cast in this movie has very little talent. Jennifer Lopez is only in the movie because she is smoking hot. Ice Cube can't act for his life. I can't stand Owen Wilson, but that's a rant for another time. John Voight is an obvious miscast because he is supposed to be the villain and every time he opens his mouth you want to block your ears. The snake looks terrible and I guess there was two of them so the title Anaconda is a lie. The only person I can say I actually liked was the British guy. His character actually fit well in the story and he had some development as he eventually turns into a hero of some sort. One character, I don't remember his name, started out important and the movie built him up as a hero and he is sidelined for over half of the movie. He just lays in a bed in a coma like state and it annoyed me to my core. I was counting down the scenes until he came back because he was a likable and relatable character. Instead the movie decided to focus on John Voight and his stupid character and Owen Wilson and his stupidity, then his whiney girlfriend and her stupidity. This movie was frustrating above all else. The special effects in this movie are just plain embarrassing. The snake looks terrible, the makeup and prosthetics look miserable. There is a scene where the anaconda eats a black panther and the panther looked way too fake. Even the nose it made sounded fake. Obviously they wouldn't use a real panther or snake but it was poor and lazy filmmaking. This movie was not a complete fail it did have some entertaining parts, specifically the end. Despite being very predictable and knowing which characters would die when, I don't want to vilify this movie because it isn't the worst movie I've ever seen. My favorite scene is the one when they kill the first anaconda. Voight is tied up but he being the way he is turns the scene around and then there's the whole thing with the waterfall. It had the vibe and feel of a climax but it wasn't. Even though the last scene was incredibly ridiculous it was still entertaining. Watching the snake and seeing how huge it was was cool and unexpected. As a kid I loved this movie and I still don't know why. The acting was terrible but I loved Ice Cube. He was terrible but I liked that he was in the movie. For the time he was a big pop culture figure and it made sense that he was in there. I feel like I'm rambling so I'm going to wrap this up.Overall, Anaconda will be a childhood favorite but childhood opinions mean virtually nothing. I want this movie to be rebooted and made properly. There have been sequels that were OK but still unacceptable. A giant snake terrorizing people is interesting and can be exciting. However, John Vogiht's awful accent, Ice Cube, Jennifer Lopez, either of the Wilsons, awful special effects, and poor direction is not the way to do it. I am really disappointed in the movie and it has to get the WillyT Seal of DISapproval. "},{"Title":"Anaconda (1997)","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Watching 'Anaconda' now, fifteen years after it's release, it's clear to see that this was really just a spiffed up B-movie, cashing in on the success to other monster flicks of the time which were hugely popular like 'Jurassic Park' and 'The Lost World Jurassic Park' both of which I lump in along with the likes of 'Anaconda'. I have fond memories of wearing out my VHS copies of these films when I was younger, and while 'Anaconda' doesn't stand up to the likes of 'Jurassic Park' in any way, it had its fair share of influencing countless other films which would try to imitate the huge snake killing and eating everyone, none of which had a premise as good as that of 'Anaconda'.Factual errors all aside, the cast is good, and it's notable especially because of the direction they would later take in the following decade, Owen Wilson going more in the direction of comedy rather than action. Jon Voight is the perfect bad guy here, Ice Cube retains his gangster street cred, alongside Jennifer Lopez, and the absolutely beautiful Kari Wuhrer. It's nice that Eric Stoltz's pretentious character is comatose for a good portion of the film, as he's one of the least likable, although I'd say all of the characters here are pretty well written. Danny Trejo's small role in the beginning was something I had forgotten about, being that I haven't seen this in a long time. I know it's probably really only 6 material but since I hold this film in higher regard because of nostalgia, I'm going to give it a 7.ANACONDA ----7/10. "},{"Title":"Stank","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I wanted to rate this pile of horse-dung as a 1 but then it did have some shots of J-Lo's derrière which stuck out prominently, although she did her best not to show it, so I had to give it a 2.Actually, I never got to the end of this movie. I quit when the Jon Voight character strangled the woman while the others were in the water. As though any small group would put 75% of their able-bodied personnel in the Anaconda-infested water at one time.I don't know anything about Anacondas except I was shown a picture of one caught in South Asia after it had digested a man. But it was a small man and he fell asleep never to see the light again. However this computer-generated snake looked far too menacing to be real - it seemed that it had a vendetta against the boatload of people, something no animals have for humans. Owen Wilson was happy to get killed early as he really was out of place - he felt horny because of the jungle. That was a terrible line.I would have put in mostly unknown actors. Jon Voight was awful with his constant sneering and ham-acting. Jennifer Lopez, aside from the glimpses of her backside, was wooden and unconvincing. Ice Cube was clearly out of his depth.Anyway, if this movie shows up on your cable, skip it. "},{"Title":"Anaconda","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I have seen this vicious creature film plenty of times to remember many moments from it, it is one of those films that is easy and simple enough to not enjoy, even though you know it's a tiny bit cheesy, from Razzie nominated director Luis Llosa (The Specialist). Basically a survey crew from National Geographic are heading into the jungle of the Amazon with filmmaking equipment to search for a long lost native tribe. The team are headed by anthropologist Dr. Steven Cale (Eric Stoltz) and director Terri Flores (Jennifer Lopez), and fellow crew members are cameraman Danny Rich (Ice Cube), visionary Warren Westridge (Jumanji's Jonathan Hyde), sound engineer Gary Dixon (Owen Wilson), production manager Denise Kalberg (Kari Wuhrer), and the tug boat's Mateo (Vincent Castellanos). While travelling down the Amazon river they come across a sunken boat and rescue stranded Paul Serone (Razzie nominated Jon Voight), and he offers to help them find the tribe they are looking for, but his true intentions are completely different. After Cale gets stung by a wasp in the throat Serone takes over command, and after suspicions he slowly shows his true colours as a brutal man trying to achieve his objective. He is in the jungle tracking and trying to catch a record breaking huge Green Anaconda snake, and they all realise they are all in danger when it shows up, and will kill anyone with its mighty strangulation and swallow you whole with its big dislocated jaws. Mateo is killed first, and after saying he will help Serone help capture the snake for the profit Gary is next to die, and after trying to hold the human villain back, he manages to escape and chokes Denise dumping her body to drown. After killing Westbridge and Cale awakes from his unconscious state, the surviving members Terri and Danny seemed to have got killed the snake and got rid of Serone, but their human enemy captures them. He is looking to catch the second larger Anaconda using his prisoners as bait, and even though they start being strangled they manage to find a way to escape, and it is Serone that turns into the snake's dinner. Terri and Danny manage to trap the snake and burn it alive, only for it to return one more time where they kill it beating it with an axe until it is finally dead, and reunited with Cale they settle on the boat, and ironically they accidentally find the native tribe they had been looking for, and it ends with them filming as they planned. Also starring Danny Trejo as Poacher and Frank Welker as the roars of the Anaconda. There isn't really much you can say about the acting apart from that it is fine from everyone, and it is a very simple concept for a monster style movie, and the special computer generated effects to create the 40 foot Anaconda, or rather a giant garden hose with fangs, are alright, it gets mixed opinions, but I personally don't mind this camp and silly but reasonably fun horror adventure. It was nominated the Razzies for Worst New Star for The Animatronic Anaconda, Worst Picture, Worst Screen Couple for Voight and The Animatronic Anaconda and Worst Screenplay. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Who gives the best 'snake' performance?","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" You feel like watching something considerably lazy, 'Anaconda' might just be up your alley. The heavy-backed production is Hollywood gloss (just look at the familiar cast, its grand scope and special effects) with a poorly thought out gimmick, but its materialistic concept is a b-movie at heart. Quite a humidly straight-forward creature runs amok through an adventurous trip get-up, but where it should be having fun with itself (where the script throws in some lousy tongue-in-cheek remarks), everything is done in a serious tone (but it's hard to take it so). Although with the exception of a shadily camped-up Jon Voight doing his best snake hunter impression&#x85; ah actually with his creepy facials (look at those flickering eyes and grimace) and slithering movement you could easily mistake him as the role of the anaconda. Well in the end he's just as dangerously devious! Its push for A-grade treatment is obvious, but better than it probably deserved. Slick direction by Luis Llosa, vividly lush jungle locations (though there's some potent sets in use), smooth camera-work and a leering concentration on the special effects. Mixing together CGI and animatronics with indifferent results, however the latter being better implemented. Jennifer Lopez leads the way (in a rather commending role) with the likes of Ice Cube, Owen Wilson, Jonathan Hyde, Kari Wuhrer and an under-used Eric Stoltz doing modest jobs. Nonetheless its Voight's show! Even with this uneven stash, the material is ponderously clichéd and not as exciting as it should have been. The snake attacks are ridiculously brought across (just look at the outlandish climax), but remain fun even though the attempted jolts are weak and tension never arises. This could be attributed to its pattern of getting bogged-down on some very long-winded and tepid dialogues that stereotypically rob it from being consistently fun.Disposable amusement. "},{"Title":"Despite initial pretensions of maturity, a welcome bout of trashy yet enjoyable giant snake mayhem","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Few viewers would enter a 'giant snake' monster mayhem film such as Anaconda expecting a serious, mature, award winning piece of drama, but initially it seems director Luis Llosa has somewhat missed the memo. Opening his film with an ominous contextual caption outlining the mythic significance of anacondas, then taking his time introducing his characters and the pending plot device (a documentary film about a South American native tribe), the viewer is left either pleasantly surprised and perhaps slightly alarmed (depending on one's expectations for the picture). Could this, a voice in the back of their head implores, be the singular exception to the rule - a giant animal horror thriller with the guts to take itself seriously? With Anaconda, is Llosa finally eschewing a trashy fun factor in favour of a classier, more serious vein of storytelling, unafraid to demand some semblance of intelligence from its audience? One is inclined to think so for some time, as this more serious veneer is impressively held to for an extensive period of time, as eerily creeping cameras amplify the uneasy, serpentine feel, slowly becoming increasingly tight and claustrophobic as the viewer shuffles uneasily in their seat, prepared to be genuinely scared. And then comes Jon Voight. Ostensibly cast to lend the film Oscar cred and gravitas, Voight's deranged, hilariously over the top aping of an 'Apocalypse Now' style role, complimented with mangled Spanish accent and perpetual leer derails any remaining semblances of the film taking itself seriously, and marking the turning point when it morphs into a more predictably campy and enjoyable action romp. However, even as the cliché cascades in, Llosa is at least wise enough to steal from the best, copiously plundering from Spielberg's Jaws, particularly its water level cinematography and lurking underwater shots, and, in a perfect instance of 'intended horrifying moment turned unintentionally hilarious', is even bold enough to steal Spielberg's patented 'reverse- Vertigo-zoom' upon the revelation of his creature. Of course the arrival of the snake itself would be enough to dispel notions of a credibly serious film, as the CGI looks typically cheap, complete with fluctuating size, and absurdly out of proportion mouth, making the snake more comical than frightening. If only Llosa had been brazen enough to steal Spielberg's savvy realisation than keeping the creature hidden is far more frightening than attempting to milk it for gratuitous money shots the snake might have been a more serious threat, but with the thankful avoiding of complete cinematic plagiarism, the snake at least achieves a level of 'so-bad-it's-good' memorability. It goes without saying that the film's hinted at thematic complexity only runs as deep as the age old capitalism versus ethics debate, but once things start to get crazy, Llosa is thankfully unafraid to keep things simple. Hammering conventions with gleeful aplomb rather than attempting to stumble around them, all the while gleefully winking at viewer expectations and gradually amping up the pace throughout, making the film an engaging watch, if far from a serious one. It helps the film's guilty pleasure factor to see so many big names playing along with the stupidity, and guaranteeing than, while this film is far from the high point of any of their careers, their presence does guarantee a higher performance standard than the usual for such a film. Apart from Voight's manic and tremendously enjoyable scene stealer, Jennifer Lopez, while hardly spectacular, offers an impressively measured and dignified lead performance with minimal screaming, although she is less convincing as a documentary filmmaker. Ice Cube banks on his 'street smart tough guy' persona to suitable effect, although charisma appears somewhat left behind in his rendition. Owen Wilson marks a high point, with enough trademark charm to make his slippery character truly enjoyable and underused, and Eric Stoltz is also a credibly solid performance as the team's naturalist. Of course Anaconda is miles away from any sort of cinematic masterpiece, let alone the more dignified and serious film its beginning suggests, but there remains a particular art in delivering a picture with no grander ambitions than to entertain without descending into total disarray, in which Llosa appears particularly versed. A guilty pleasure at best, perhaps, but a particularly solid and enjoyable one without question worth exploring for fans of the genre. -5.5/10 "}{"Title":"cool","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" pretty cool for a 1997 movie. this was good but it had a scene where there was a waterfall going backwards.I really enjoyed the anaconda, for the time period in which it was made it was very realistic and believable. There were several big name actors, and that always (well almost) makes the film better. The film relied on the dynamics of the actors and not only on the special effects of the snake. But there was a scene where it showed Jennifer Lopez's butt (just thought I would throw that in, in case anyone reading this before viewing the movie would know) considering a lot of the anaconda and related films are viewed by preteens. "},{"Title":"Slumming Down The Amazon","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" While a giant anaconda devours people whole, Jon Voight chews up the scenery in this monster movie that's better than average thanks to its game cast. Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, Eric Stoltz, Owen Wilson and Jonathan Hyde slum along with Voight down the Amazon in this entertaining outing that moves along at a clip.Time has rendered the CGI effects almost quaint; nonetheless, the film has its share of thrills and is, if nothing else, amusing, thanks largely to Voight's histrionic bad-guy.Watching Voight get eaten, then regurgitated, by the title creature is certainly one of those guilty-pleasure movie moments. "},{"Title":"Seemed like the only point was to further ice-cube's career","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Good Points there is plenty of eye-candy.You get some great shots of the rainforestMany scenes that feel like your watching a spoof (like scaryMovie) Bad Points  the fear is almost nonexistentthe snake does not move or act like a normal snake would (It also looks terribly fake, but you can't really fault that, making it real would have looked fake too)the fuel drums should have floated making them easy to recover. For that matter they should have tied it down better anywaythe villain does not really think things though (he knew the crew would resist, should have seen it coming or taken them out)the characters seem almost invincible and come back even when they should clearly have died 3 times overReasons why It seems like many rappers are trying to jump on the bandwagon that a few lucky ones managed to and start making movies instead (must be more profitable). At first I wasn't sure if this was the case here, but then I noticed that ice-cube (rapper in question here) was getting more screen time and better things to say (being one of the only characters you could stand). It really set in though when they had his rap song start playing that I really knew. Anyway, about every film element is poor in this movie. We have bad dialog, bad scene shots (except for the rainforest ones), not really any horror element (it's more of a humor actually), and things seem convolved to advanced the plot (like how the one guy uses the oxygen tank with the wasp, the bad guy couldn't be 100% sure he would chose to go instead now could he?). Now one of the last things I want to talk about is how the characters just don't die (none to surprising ice-cube makes this list). For example, one character *cough*ice-cube*cough* gets stabbed in the leg, squeezed by the anaconda, knocked around like a rag doll by the anaconda's tail, and still manages to set the beast on fire stab it in it's head, and still have energy left to film the secret Indian tribe. But even that pales in comparison to comparison to the enemy who is actually swallowed by the anaconda and later spit up and not even dead yet!!! Finally, the voice-over dubbing is atrocious and blunt. My favorite is when they knock the bad guy in to the water ice-cube says *beep*! the tranquilizer came out of his back! Uhh...so why don't you shoot him or something idiot! Overall, pretty bad, but if you view this as a spoof and like eye-candy, you may choose to check this out. If you don't however, you could still view the fairly good sequel. "},{"Title":"This movie really makes you skin crawl!","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Movies about dangerous snakes are slowly on the rise. Mostly people have the natural fear about snakes. I sure do. However since I went to a University in '97, I used to them now. The non-poisonous ones. Anaconda is a the movie that gives you true rush of adrenaline when you watch it. Star-studded action-packed goodness is what you get, and there's a little education in it too. Jon Voight with a ponytail? Anything can happen. J. Lo, Owen Wilson, Eric Stolz(Mask), Ice Cube, etc. who could ask for anything more? I like everything the movie showed, even the tracheotomy that Paul(Voight) performed. The menacing anaconda was the real deal. The graphics were unbelievable and the part where it ate one of the victims, it was creepy. Depite of it all it was one of the best snake films I've even seen. Now its best to understand snakes, the anaconda is the one snake I must truly avoid, AT ALL COSTS! RATING 3 OUT OF 5 STARS. "},{"Title":"Just a Quick Slide to Snake Food","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" One thing I always wonder about after seeing a movie such as this is why is this giant snake such a problem now? Did it take reptile steroids recently? Is it a mutation or affected by alien forces? Why all of sudden now, when a documentary crew chooses to investigate a part of the Amazon jungle, does this super snake decide to show off its super-duper stalk & kill abilities? See, maybe it's just me, but I don't think real giant snakes behave this way faster than running humans, able to catch 'em in midair as they jump to 'safety' - there are certain laws of nature & physics that cannot be just ignored. And I can't believe this clever snake was also so clever as to wait for some foreign visitors, Americans, to pay a visit before publicizing its ultra powers. But that's the outrageousness of such monster-on-the-prowl pictures and you go with the flow or you just don't go. The main thrill is watching to see which of perhaps a half-dozen stock B-pic characters make it to the end; will half of them make it? Two? Just one? The other cheap thrill is watching Voight ham it up as an evil poacher. He's picked up by the hapless crew near the beginning and very soon manipulates everything towards his goal of capturing an Anaconda alive (for the money). Voight wears an evil sneer throughout the entire film, to make sure we understand he's evil, and basically gives the snake a run for the money as to which is the more dangerous of the two. This was Lopez just before she hit diva status in perhaps her first starring role (she'd been in supporting parts before this). One other point emphasized is that such snakes like to vomit up their meals soon after swallowing, for the joy of eating it again. The FX, a combo of digital and robotics, aren't too bad. One can't deny this spawned a bevy of imitations in the direct-to-video (King Cobra) and Sci-Fi Channel markets. There's been giant cobras, rattlers, and pythons since, all traced back to this flic. Its own sequel didn't arrive until 2004, with different characters. "},{"Title":"A  Special  Effects  Movie  That  Is  Truly  Special  !","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" To begin with,I do hate snakes.But I certainly do not hate Jennifer Lopez,which is why I decided to give this film a try.While watching it I realized than Jlo would actually be the unlikeliest of incentives for a movie-goer to sit through this extremely well-made and entertaining film.There is a National Geographic team that embarks on a journey on the Amazon to photograph an obscure tribe.On the way,they rescue a hunter in distress,and soon find that they were set up in order to help him capture a live Anaconda-the largest and deadliest snake in the world.Consequently,several of the crew die,and in the end ,only two survivors manage to kill the snakes.This all makes for a stale plot,but provides Director Luis Llosa to treat us to some state-of-the-art creature effects.It is here where the film scores.The creature effects are incredibly real ,and are guaranteed to get claps wherever this movie is screened.I was particularly blown away by the scene in the abandoned warehouse when Jon Voight is attacked by the snake.Phew !The members of the cast play their roles fairly well,and I was very sorry to see nice-guy Owen Wilson become snake dinner-even on screen,this is hideous !Jennifer Lopez with her Latina good looks seems very much at one with the jungle setting,while Ice Cube manages to look more dangerous than a photographer should (he has to because he kills the snakes,after all! ).It is Jon Voight as the totally maniacal hunter Paul Sarone who outshines everyone else from the moment he is on screen to the climax when he is regurgitated(yuk!) by one of the anacondas.He seems as predatory and ruthless as the snakes he is hunting,and remains remorseless to the end ,much like a wild animal-even near certain death,he winks at Jlo in the climax,as though living or dying mean nothing to him.Luis Llosa is no seasoned Hollywood director ,but he manages to deliver a film that is truly Hollywood at its spine-chilling best.Great stuff ,this ! "},{"Title":"A movie so cheesy and undistinguished it needed to be made!","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Occasionally a movie comes along which is so absurdly derivative and unimaginative that it is compulsory viewing. 'Anaconda' is that movie. Basically it's a half-ass ed 'Jaws' ripoff set in the Amazon with a bunch of C-list actors and 'performers' (Ice Cube?) menaced by an impossibly over-sized aquatic snake, with Jon Voight lending featherweight gravity to proceedings as a sleazy villain of indeterminate origin. This movie has almost nothing to recommend it - but it has J-Lo before she was a big enough star to be defined by three letters and two syllables. Eric Stoltz is along for the ride as the resident cute scientist guy, collecting a paycheck, along with Owen Wilson as himself and a cute chick who is earmarked early on to become snake poop (as they so often do). Also, it has a few effective scare sequences with a computer animated snake for aficionados of that sort of thing. But, most significantly, you will believe a snake can PUKE A MAN!! (worth the price of video rental alone) "},{"Title":"Your too harsh!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I wouldn't say that Anaconda was the best movie of all time but it is not the worst. It has suspense and tension and enough entertainment to suit me very well. The snake in some scenes does look really bad but they can use a real snake can they?! and i see some of you going on about how the snake wouldn't of been able to do this or that it would die from this and so on i think thats really sad to even write about something like that! it is a film for goodness sake its not meant to be perfect they use their imaginations to improve the film, if the snake could not move that quickly or die because of this or that then the film would be short and boring.I do like this film i think that it is a very good attempt, some scenes made me laugh some made me jump some were a little boring, but altogether the film did have a lot of potential and i really enjoyed it.From the reviews it got by my friends and on the television i thought it would have been a lot better than it was but i had no let downs it still was a good film.It is not scary really, but it is enjoyable and jumpy, me and my friends enjoyed it and i think if some of the people out there took it a little less seriously then they would enjoy it to! it is only a film after all.The film has some good actors and i think they did the job reasonably well and were accurate. There are some things i found a little weird but it didn't bother me.Some parts were predictable and i knew without a doubt what was going to happen next but that wasn't a bad thing. My over all review is that i liked the film it was entertaining and enjoyable, a little boring in some scenes but still good enough to be a well liked film, i think people are being to harsh on it and taking it so seriously i think they need a cooling off.I agree with the people that thought the film was good i give it 8/10 "},{"Title":"Poor even for JLo...","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Yeah, it wasn't great. Its probably the poorest of Lopez's work, and thats certainly saying something. As far as I'm concerned, the only reason to see this is for the gigantic snake. And while Lopez and Wuhrer may have been two of the hot zone actresses at the time this movie came out, their appeal just can't help this movie. This is a movie for an ugly, rainy night, and even then I'd probably watch something else.  "},{"Title":"Horrible Snake, not as Horrible Movie","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I can't help but be intrigued by a movie like this, being a B-movie and Monster movie fan. Anaconda is already set up to be a schlock dream and a cinema lover's nightmare, and I actually found myself really enjoying a large portion of this film. The jungle scenes are both atmospheric and lush and there are times when things are genuinely creepy. Unfortunately, a large portion of the atmosphere is destroyed once the anaconda shows up, quite early in the movie. When all you can see are the flanks of the creature, moist and sinuous, it looks great but when shown from a distance or just the head in close up, the creature looks horribly CGd, or very Puppet-like, respectively. The biggest fright I received from this was the list of somewhat respectable (or at least known) stars! Check it out! And they all seem to be having a giant snake of a time acting in what is obviously not ever intended to be a piece of art. Big snake, Horrible Voight Accent, JLo-back when she was attractive and innocent, and Luke Wilson!  Watch with friends, or booze.MY RATING As a work of cinema---2/10 With tongue planted firmly in cheek---8/10 Overall---5/10DVD features INTERACTIVE MENUS! wow, indeed. Also, full or widescreen and a full screen trailerFeatures Rating 1/10 "}{"Title":"They're Gonna Need a Bigger Boat...","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  What at first appears to be another stupid, B-movie horror piece, is actually...well...a stupid, B-movie horror piece. Anaconda falls into the cliched zone, the typicality of the situations herein have been done before with lower budgets. Anaconda is essentially a two-hour repeat of those 1950s films with giant ants attacking cities. What Eight Legged Freaks (2001) spoofed so finely, Anaconda simply falls into.The plot, if there is one, has something to do with researchers investigating into a long-lost tribe in the Amazon. They take a boat down the Amazon, through the steamy jungles surrounding, and come across a river rat played by the hateable Jon Voight. Deliverance aside, Jon Voight has not given a half-decent performance in years. I generally do not like the guy. Anaconda does not change my outlook on him.The expedition is led by Jennifer Lopez. The other members of the team are Ice Cube, Owen Wilson, Kati Wuhrer and Eric The Original Marty McFly Stoltz. After they pick up Voight on their boat, before you can hum the theme to JAWS, a massive, forty-foot Anaconda appears, slowly killing off the cast members. There are a lot of big stars in this film, which probably is why it is so darn awful. It is in my opinion that when many stars flock to a given movie, it will turn out to be good (Mars Attacks!), or bad (Gigli), but never delightable. Never whimsical, original, never enchanting. Save the rare It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, this never happens.Why must we endure so many JAWS cash-ins? Steven Spielberg had it right when he didn't return for Jaws 2, because Jaws 2 wasn't as much a sequel as it was a cash-in. Ever since JAWS, there have been millions of these creatures-on-the-loose tales. They started sometime in the fifties, but those kind were silly. They were fun to watch. We were laughing with them. JAWS changed all that, taking itself seriously, but at the same time presenting us with something a bit more acceptable than giant cockroaches attacking Manhattan. Suddenly the Creature Features changed; they started taking themselves seriously, hoping to be as popular as JAWS. I remember a particular film I once saw on AMC about giant ants being bred in a small town by evil geniuses, who had been sprayed by the queen ant and were under her control. That was a very bad movie. But it was funny. I could laugh at it, but to a point that it never got too serious. Anaconda does get too serious. It gets very serious, then very cheesy, then very dramatic, then tries to be very funny. On the whole, it fails.Anaconda is in-between a lot of bad movies. It doesn't have style, purpose or good performances. Of course this is acceptable given the type of film it is, but the main problem remains that the film has no fun side to it. It isn't funny, laughable, or a guilty pleasure like Eight Legged Freaks, a film I strongly recommend to the horror lovers out there. No. Instead, Anaconda isn't laughable but laughably bad. We aren't laughing with it. We're laughing at it. 1.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Far from great, but kind of fun.","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I don't think anyone is going to argue that this is not a great movie by any means, and it definitely has it's share of problems, but there are still yet some good things to be seen.  Some of the special effects in the film are rather good and there is a great deal of beautiful scenery as well.The acting in the film is nothing spectacular, but at the same time you have to remember that these actors are acting against a big mechanical snake, or in some cases nothing at all, so I'll give 'em some props for doing a decent job.The cast in the film is surprisingly good.  Jon Voight does a fine job as the antagonist (although I didn't like him at all the first time I saw the film).  Jennifer Lopez does a good job as well, but again nothing spectacular.  Eric Stolz makes an appearance as well, although his screen time is very minimal.  The great Owen Wilson is also in the film, one of his first film credits.  While, not having a terribly important role in the film, he was a cool character, and sadly I would have like to see him make it to the end.  Kari Wuher is reason enough to watch this film.  What a gorgeous woman!  I definitely look forward to her future work.  Ice Cube is in the film as well, I don't know what it is about this guy, but I just don't like his acting, in any movie.  So he was the only cast member that I didn't really care for and sadly he's one of the few that actually survive the the entire film.All in all, if you like films about huge killer monsters/animals, then you may like this film.  If you're the kind of person that going to nit-pick every little factual discrepancy, then stay away from this film!  In any case, if you do end up seeing the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading.-LebowskiT1000 "},{"Title":"My my my...","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda, a film that has lead to me shouting at the t.v and trying to insert a screwdriver into my forehead.  This is a truly bad movie.   J Lo cant act, Ice Cube can't act, Jon Voight cant act, the Anaconda itself is the cheapest special effect in known histroy (And I'm including William Shatner in that).  The film has little plot, it is what would be called an 'event movie' but the fact remains that as this movie is so poor it isnt really much of an event. Let me start with Voight.  Throughout the film he has this ridiculous pseudo french accent that seems to fluctuate between Welsh and mild French (Think 'Allo Allo').  I actually found myself cheering when he got eaten. J Lo is pointless, she does all of her acting with her shapely backside. This is a good thing as I enjoy staring at her behind but still, when you find yourself being attacked by a killer snake flashing your bottom at it isnt the best plan of action. And why was Eric Stoltz in this?  Why did he choose this film after being in Pulp Fiction?  Why? All in all, this movie smells and I wouldn't advice anyone to see it, unless you want to know what it's like to be tortured. Peace "},{"Title":"A Popcorn movie in the best sense of the word *Possible Spoilers*","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda never tries to be, or even to pretend to be more than what it is, a popcorn-adventure movie with average special effects and cheesy acting. The characters include John Voight as a deliciously evil character who always seems to be trying to out-villain the Anaconda (more on that later) Jennifer Lopez plays the standered action heroine, a gorgeous and tough character who can, in certain cases, take care of herself. Ice Cube plays the standard tough dude from the city who doesn't trust Voight a bit. Johnathan Hyde plays a humorus british character who is a bit of a loser, but also is the only one to really taunt the snake (to his sorrow). the rest of the cast don't do much, except get eaten/killed/taken out of the movie somehow. The Main villains, however, are the two Anacondas, a male one and a female one. The Male is, basicaly, a grade A loser who is always trying to do more than he can, and pays for it. The Female, on the other hand, is a tough-as-nails, threatening-as-hell, 40ft. monster bitch of a snake, who is intellegent, powerful, and ready to do anything to kill anyone. she will kill, eat, and then regurgutate a human so that she can do the same to another. She is one of the best Villionouses in the movies, right up there with the Alien Queen from Aliens and  the Matriarch Velociraptor from Jurassic Park Anaconda is a fun movie, nothing else, it's an old fasioned good time without a thought in it's reptillian head. how wonderful!  "},{"Title":"A good fun movie","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  My and my son, who is seven, watched this movie and enjoyed it. It is not particularly well made, and the special effects are useless, but if you suspend disbelief for 90 mins, it passes a Sunday morning OK. My son was not phased by it at all,and thought is was all 'dead good', which is not exactly a compliment for the makers, attempting a real scary movie. Aimed at under 10's, as a Boys own adventure, it works, as an intelligent adult thriller - Lets forget it, eh!  "},{"Title":"Ripe anaconda doo-doo","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  As for squill, above, who finds this stupidest movie of the decade a classic, well, all I can do is sigh.There is nothing classic about a movie as unbelievably stupid as this one.A return to the '50s horror genre? Possibly, but this was a genre that should be taken off and fed to a 50-foot screaming anaconda, and have its funeral oration given by Jon Voight, in one of the ripest pieces of scenery-gnawing ever put on film. It is so ludicrously stupid that I can recommend it -- once. It's so bad, it makes you look skyward and laugh.The point about the '50s horror classics was that they were crude paranoia -- in most of them, for Spacemen or Creatures read Commies and you've pretty much understood the whole deal. Ed Woodian direction can't make a classic, just a piece of junk.God, I hate monster movies where the monsters aren't real in the slightest. This anaconda stalks prey for miles, lies in wait for days, eats multiple victims within minutes of each other (instead of the weeks or months between snacks of a real bone-crusher), and... wait for it... screams! (Uh, anacondas make no noise at all.) If you want a dumb laughable rental, go ahead, and get ready to laugh and wince. If you want actual insights into the horrors of nature, skip this. "},{"Title":"Definitely a must-see!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Now I don't own a whole lot of movies, but after seeing Anaconda in the theatres I decided to pick up the tape when it came out, and am right now waiting for the DVD to become available as well.Todays flics are no longer anything special, but now and then one will surprise you. Anaconda is exactly that kind. What started out appearing - to myself - as a low-budget monsta'movie, rapidly became an unforgettable experience with brilliant performances by an excellent cast (of whom I could hardly appreciate a single one before seeing this film) all-round; Voight apparently rising to ethereal levels of acting, in a world where the least bit talent has become scarce indeed.But that is not the main factor that makes Anaconda engrave itself in your memory. Atmosphere is. The whole setting, ambient sounds, background music, every element of - and changes in - the (imho) perfectly harmonious environment make you feel as if you are actually _there_ on the river.Granted, one would be quite the fool to believe that there are such intelligent, wickedly scheming, athletic (yes acrobatic even) hard-to-kill snakes out there. But would one not be an even bigger fool not to see through this? I feel the snake just serves the story, which is (** minor spoiler perhaps **) about a group of people who set out to do make a documentary, and a select few others with their own little hidden agenda. The snakes' contribution to the story is practically negligeable (it's probably just there to provide an ending for the movie), hence it does not matter if it is realistic or not.What is also a really big plus for the story, is the way all its pieces fall into place as its telling progresses. From the first scene right to the final showdown, the keen viewer will notice all kinds of little metaphorical puzzlepieces starting to fit together. Personally, I had to see it twice to understand the bulk of it, and will even today notice small details each time I see it.I, for one, will be following cast & crew's careers with keen interest.One thing I do not understand is why Faces of Death is in the recommendations for this movie on IMDB.. ?? Although, I couldn't really give you any recommendations either story-wise.. But for the monsta'movie fan Phantoms of course, and The Relic. Go rent! (Or buy) ;) "},{"Title":"HA! Bruce ain't got NOTHING on ME!!!","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  One of my personal favorites, the snake looked animated, but I couldn't care less (and anacondas do look a little animated), the script\acting had a few (and far between) bad bits, but are soon patched up with great parts (I.E. john voight getting hit in the head with a golf club). The snakes were ssssooooooooooooo cool! (there were two, a male and a female, the male is the one that gets shoot in the head and the female is the one at the end) when ever I see the female anaconda falling, flaming from a chimny I always want her to shout out HA! Bruce ain't got NOTHING on ME! In short, one of the few movies which I agree with Ebert on. "},{"Title":"Dumb. )","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anacondas never grow that large.  Ever. Not in a million years. Anacondas do not eat humans, nor spit them out and eat them again.  I don't know where anyone got that idea, but it too was stupid.It was badly done, the animation for the anaconda was terrible, and again, no one can act.  "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Somehow this movie, although I know it's crap, I still find myself watching it if it comes on TV. The giant snake looks like crap to be honest and yet again the movie goes under 90 minutes which makes it hard to really lay back and enjoy the film. And JLO might be a good singer but she struggles to act. Avoid borrowing this.50% "}{"Title":"why was this film greenlighted?","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The people who thought this was a good idea are also probably the ones still giving Pauley Shore acting jobs.  This is about as bad as a movie can get.  What was Eric Stoltz thinking?  And Jon Voight hamming it up was another low point.  The worst aspect was the screaming the snake did.  First of all, snakes don't make that sound and secondly, it was terribly annoying to the ears.  I can keep writing about how bad this movie is, but I don't want to devote that much energy to it. "},{"Title":"J.Lo.'s beauty, Voight's camp make for entertaining flick.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  My point of view is that anything with Jennifer Lopez in it is worth watching. Her beauty and charm come through in this film like all her others. OK, aside from J.Lo., there were some good things and some bad things about this flick. It's sort of a cliche now, but it holds true here, that most of the actors are gobbled up in reverse order of billing. Eric Stoltz was unconscious for most of the movie, so he was a non-factor. Ice Cube turned in a pretty darned good performance here. True, the parts he plays are basically all the same, but I don't know if that's due to his lack of range, or if that's all the parts he gets offered. Kari Wuhrer was quite good, she definitely deserves to move up from the late-night cable T&A fare.Beautiful photography of the rain forest. But the snake effects were often pretty cheesy. I guess they couldn't afford Industrial Light & Magic, so they went with Sony's FX company, and it showed badly.But what made this film was Jon Voight's performance. Yes, he played the role with tongue firmly planted in cheek, and he did it masterfully. What some people don't seem to get, is that Voight's part deliberately aims for camp, and scores a direct hit. It must have been tremendous fun for him.   "},{"Title":"A BIG disappointment","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie on a Wednesday night, hoping for a great movie, but what I saw was a pure waste of what could have been a great flick. The dialogue was terrible, and the characters didn't seem to care about anything. It's really sad that someone can get great actors like the ones in this movie and put them in such a terrible film. The movie was boring, and gave itself away way too many times. I love snakes, and I hate to see a crappy movie about them. The acting was also crappy--I frankly hoped that every actor would die, because neither of them give the viewer any reason to care about them. The snake killed every one of the people in the same way (maybe it caught them differently, but it always wrapped around and swallowed them in the same way) and there was hardly and blood or gore when the snake attacked. I once asked someone about this movie, and they explained it very vaguely, but I wished I had asked more so I didn't waste my money on this garbage. One of the most horrifying things about this film is the bad special effects. It would have been better if they just didn't show the snakes' body. The only good part about the film was the regurgitation of Jon Voight's body.  "},{"Title":"Relentlessly Awful","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  To use a tired analogy, this movie is akin to a train wreck.  It's horrifying, it should never have happened, you feel deep sympathy for those involved, you want to look away, you *should* look away, and yet you can't.There is too much wrong with this movie to even bother to mention.  I know, it wasn't supposed to be some great achievement of film-making...  I know it was supposed to be a B-flick.  But there is a big difference between 'good' bad movies and 'BAD' ones.  This, is an extraordinarily bad one.It seems at times that it's trying to be cheesy (which it does VERY well) and other times where it's trying to be half-serious or scary... and ends up being even more cheesy.The performances are complete corn.  Whatever John Voight was trying to do, it failed miserable.  It pained me to listen to him...  Was he trying to act?  Or, more likely, trying *not* to act??  And why bother to mention the rest of the flat cast?  There's really no point.As for the special effects...  In monster movies, it's quite necessary to suspend your belief- monsters do not exist.  However, when using something *real* as your monster, it helps to keep it somewhat grounded in reality (Jaws, anyone?).  And I don't think a cheetah could move as fast as the title creature does in this movie.Also, some consistency is needed.  Don't bother with the animatronic snake that moves at a snails pace if you make the computer generated version lightening quick.And this movie made like $80 million dollars, or something?  So very sad...I give it a 2 out of 10, due to the inexplicable fact that I actually found myself watching this drivel right to the end.  "},{"Title":"SSSSssstop Me!!!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is possibly the WORST movie, next to Godzilla, that I have ever seen.Warning!! Tiny spoilers ahead! May reveal what little plot there was!The acting was super bad and totally unconvincing. The guy who played the villain was the most unconvincing out of the lot of them. Plus Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube, whose acting was simply abysmal, were terrible! There are also a few points that I would like to point out, the first one being... anacondas.After having seen this drivel, anacondas are huge boa constrictor snakes capable of suffocating their prey to death. They do prefer to swim in water since they are so big and heavy, they find it difficult to travel with ease over ground. Anacondas lie in wait for their prey and ambush it, they don't chase after it like a 4 legged reptile would, a human screaming and running is quite likely to leave a 30 meter long snake weighing over 1000 pounds waaay behind. And did you see how quickly that snake ate the bad guy? It takes them hours to swallow prey as big as him! And regurgitating him so it can eat some more humans?? Utter crap!We could go on forever in this vein so we'll go on to the next big flaw in the plot. Awful C.G.I! OK, so the snakes are computer animated. But they look awful!! The speed with which the snakes wrap their coils around the human victims is quite something. It also looked fake, and come on! Snakes have no vocal cords so they can't make those stupid screaming sounds!Awful cliches. Guy falls in water. Underwater shots (of snake tracking him). He gets eaten. Snake gets caught in trap. It conveniently escapes. It gets its revenge everybody ends up getting eaten. By the same snake? It gets killed. It comes back to life.I could write much more but unfortunately space does not allow me. This movie is a sad excuse for a creature feature! "},{"Title":"This movie has given Anaconda a bad name!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I've ever seen! I mean I have seen documentaries about real anacondas and it is not their nature to prey on humans (and what's the point of regurgitating a prey and then go kill another one?) And I do not agree that anaconda can move that fast with its enormous size (it's just don't make sense)! The makers should have done their homework before they made the movie! "},{"Title":"Make's Ishtar Look Like A Hit!","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Absolutely one of the worst movies ever made.  This movie shouldn't be classified as a horror/thriller, but rather as raucous comedy.  I almost died laughing when Lopez shoots a snake 3 times without chambering the rounds with her bolt action rifle.  This is only the most noticeable continuity problem out of many! It must have been a play on Oswald's shooting ability from the Texas Book Depository.  Ridiculous plot, so-so acting, and a monster that uses state-of-the-art technology, which still ends up resembling the f-x used in Clash of the Titan's.  If you burn a video this year, please burn Anaconda!!! "},{"Title":"You'll believe a wide-bodied snake can make an Atlantic crossing in less than four hours....","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  In the age of the wearisome 'postmodern' (God, I hate that word) it was such a relief to see a corny monster movie that didn't pretend to be anything it wasn't. John Voight does his lo-rent version of Robert Shaw's Quint, Jennifer Lopez plays it straight and looks great and this incredibly heavy reptile moves faster than a Japanese bullet train. Did I feel insulted? Disgusted? Did I want my money back? I loved every minute. I was hoping we'd see more like this one but I think it isn't to be. More 'Scream' anyone? "},{"Title":"What?! That actor in this grade Z turkey isn't really Jon Voight, is it???","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This is one of those movies that you can tell from ten miles away is REALLY bad... So, though I'm a big fan of monster/horror movies, I never bothered to pay good money to see it in a movie theater when it first came out. But, here it is ten years later and it was on the tube the other night, so, I thought I'd give it a fair shake and see if it really is as bad as I think it is since it wasn't going to cost me anything.Well, after I managed to get through most of it - and what a struggle that was! - I still felt like I had been cheated! I want the time back that it took to watch this stupid thing! And you can't even say that this is one of those awful grade Z horror movies that's so bad it's good... It's not only stupid but so DULL and BORING that it's not unintentionally funny. So, even that kind of fun is missing from this heap of stepped-on-spaghetti... Yup, this movie (if you can even call it that) has absolutely no redeeming qualities whatever except special effects that are a little better than expected for a work of this abysmal standard...So, it's really not worth the additional time and effort it would take to comment on it here on this Web site, BUT, I just had to ask this question how in the world did an actor of the caliber of Jon Midnight Cowboy Voight ever get involved with such a TURKEY??? Talk about falling from the heights! I can't believe he's gotten this desperate in his old age. He should definitely just rest on his laurels and never allow himself to be roped into participating in such a degrading project as this ever again... "},{"Title":"Not even Snakes on a Plane could be this bad","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda is one of the lousiest movies i've ever seen. I was in middle school when the film came out. The previews for the film looked so good, I skipped class on opening day to watch an early showing of the movie. Talk about a dumb decision. Even as a 14 year old kid I realized that Anaconda was one of the worst movies I would ever see in my life. I would have been better entertained if I'd stayed in school instead of playing hooky. Terrible special effects, miserable acting from underachieving actors and a plot that a 5 year old could write. I admit that Anaconda isn't the worst movie ever made (Saw 2 holds that particular honor in my opinion), but it certainly doesn't deserve to be rated any higher than one star. "}{"Title":"Entertainment value and repeated viewing.","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I had this movie for a while. This is one of the movies that I have watched again and again. And I cannot say that for some other movies that have been rated much higher. I like the entertainment. I like the characters and the way they are played. The pressure and manipulations used by the main character add to the plot. Watching the crew of the boat get eaten one by one, that part is done well. The film is OK for the family to view. However, I did not care much for the ending, I found it boring. I also thing the ending should be a little less violent. Some of the characters did fit there parts well. Some times they almost seemed to be natural, not acting in a way. "},{"Title":"Oh No , It's A Giant Draught Excluder","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  As several people have mentioned ANACONDA is a movie that has a very old fashioned feel to it . In some ways it feels like one of those old TARZAN movies where the lord of the apes has to save a bunch of white hunters from a legendary river monster , or it feels like one of those 50 B movies where a scientific expedition are attacked by an unknown assailant like THE CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON , or it feels like one of those pictures from the 1980s where the John Williams score goes de-de-de-de-de as someone is swimming in the water like JAWS 5  THIS TIME IT'S A SNAKESee the point I'm making ? ANACONDA is a very unoriginal film that lacks any sophistication ( Why didn't any of the characters pull out a CD and play the classic Throwing Muses track Snakeface for example ? ) and it would have been very boring if it hadn't been for two things 1 ) Jon Voight . Come on you've got a latino bad guy played by Voight and he talks like Bela Lugosi . You've just got to love the way he goes over the top  Velcome to river Dracula . Now I vill kill you by throwing monkey blood at you  2 ) The draught excluder . In long shots the killer snake is obviously a CGI effect but in close ups it's a giant draught excluder . Laugh out loud as the characters are killed by one of those things you stick beside the door to keep the draught out and admire the actors for keeping a straight faceTalking of straight faces Owen Wilson appears in this and he manges to keep a straight face throughout his performance . He escapes from a wild boar - He keeps a straight face . He makes love to a scatty redhead - He keeps a straight face . He gets attacked by a draught excluder - He keeps a straight face . No matter what calamity befalls his character Wilson manages to keep the same exact straight faced expression . It is also the only film Wilson has been in that the best performance DOESN'T belong to Ben Stiller , the draught excluder is by far the best thespian in this movie  "},{"Title":"Well, What Exactly Were You Expecting?","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  A National Geographic expidition in the Amazon, led by Terri Flores (Jennifer Lopez) and Steve Cale (Eric Stoltz) is set to document a South American tribe.  But when they pick up a strange man (Jon Voight) on a sinking ship, they're getting more than they bargain for.  When Cale is incapacitated after being stung by some weird jungle bee, the stranger takes over the boat and brings everyone on a trip to hunt down the anaconda, the biggest freaking snake in the world.Yep, it's a dumb monster thriller, except in this movie the monster is an animal that actually exists.  What, were you expecting a very engaging film about National Geographic employees and their interesting work, or man's relationship with nature and the futility of attemtping to subvert it?  It's a horror-thriller movie.  If you want dumb action, then this is for you.  But be warned this is to dumb for many of the dumbest dumb action fans.I was impressed, however, that something like this was filmed for only $35 million.  It had explosions, sinking boats, a mechanical giant snake, and lots of computer animation.  I will give them credit for that.  But, in short, i'm sure this is the kind of movie that people like Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, and Owen Wilson wish would disappear from their resume.  A silly film good only to watch with groups of close friends at night with the lights out and lots of popcorn to throw at the screen.  In that case, it can be kind of fun. "},{"Title":"Warning. Terrible Film.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I actually enjoyed Anaconda the first time I saw it, but after the second viewing, I realised it was an extremely poor film, with no qualities or high-points at all.Eric Stoltz plays an anthropologist scouring the Amazon for a lost tribe of Indians. Accompanied by a documentary film crew which includes Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube and Jonathan Hyde, he heads up river and swiftly encounters trouble in the shape of Paul Sarone (Jon Voight). With his bizarre accent and extravagant facial tics, Sarone is clearly a beer or two short of the full six-pack, but before anyone can scream fruitcake, he's taken over the boat and Lopez et al are fighting a 40 foot anaconda.The performances are terrible, Jennifer Lopez really put herself down here, thank god for Out of Sight, Jon Voight isn't scary at all, he is just irritating as the evil one, and Jonathan Hyde seems to be largely embarrassed to be in such a bad movie. The script is poorly written, and the direction could have been marvellous if Luis Llosa has actually put SOME effort in?Steer clear of this disastrous piece of trash.I rate Anaconda 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Hiss Off","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" A real Anaconda will eat the odd goat once a month and spend the rest of its time avoiding all contact with the human race. Never let it be said that Hollywood will allow realism stand in the way of the next dumb horror movie. In ANACONDA we are asked to believe a CG snake decides to stalk a boat full of assorted idiots and pick them off one-by-one. My sympathies are with the snake. I'd be pretty annoyed if a bunch of noisy, vacuous and unpleasant characters turned up uninvited and started stomping around ruining MY neighbourhood. Completely bereft of believable plot or believable characters this turkey starts off daft and gets more ridiculous by the minute. Two hours after the film has started, following a lot of shouting, hissing (and wishing the makers had given us the benefit of subtitles for Jon Voight's ridiculous accent), the only conclusion you can reach is that,after this and THE SPECIALIST, someone should really sit Director Luis Llosa down and have a loooooong talk...Technically accomplished, but basically a complete waste of time for all involved (including the viewer). "},{"Title":"IF YOU LIKE CREATURE FEATURES, THIS IS FOR YOU!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda was a good movie for a good time.  I'm guessing the negative reviews came from people who went to see it that were expecting something different.  Anyway, I really enjoyed this movie and the acting was good. "},{"Title":"what a terrible film","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I've seen some films with pretty bad special effects and acting in my time, but this really does take the biscuit.The snake is actually hilarious, I know CGI wasn't as good back in 1997 as it is now, but I'm sure there were plenty of films in the 90s that had much better special effects than this. The special effects are on a par with the BBC's Dr Who in the 1980s.The acting is of course terrible, but terrible in a kind of entertaining way. The scenery of the South American jungle is lovely, but apart from that, I should say this film goes down as a real turd. If I were in this film I think I'd be embarrassed. "},{"Title":"A humdinger of a creature feature","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Fact  The largest anaconda on record measured 26 (some say 28) feet (NOT meters), but if you want the real lowdown on  Eunectes murinus, check out the Discovery Channel.  If you're in the market for a humdinger of a creature feature that will scare you out of your pants, this is your film.Like so many urban legends, alligators in the NY City sewer system for instance, the legend of giant anacondas in Amazonia have persisted for years.  The biggest whopper I heard was of a snake 150 feet long, with eyes the size of pie plates, discovered by a crew that crash-landed a B-29 during WWII.  Apparently, the snake devoured the B-29, because its remains have yet to be found.This film plays to those legends and our instinctive fear and fascination with snakes.  Psychologists of the Jungian persuasion will have a field day with this.The plot is simple  a group of scientists, led by Dr. Steven Cale (Eric Stolz) travel deep into the Amazon in search of that Long Lost Tribe of natives who seem only to inhabit the back lots of Hollywood.  It's no spoiler to tell you that every actor you don't recognize is there for the express purpose of being eaten by a snake.  Along the way they pick up Paul Sarone (John Voigt), a blonde, blue-eyed Aryan ubermensch with a Spanish name and accent (where, oh where, did he get that blonde hair and blue eyes? Hee hee hee - think it over!) who comes aboard with a 50 foot snakeskin that he quickly unrolls to demonstrate where his heart lies.  Voigt, a truly wonderful actor, is superb in this roll, playing it over the top with a smile on his face and a gleam in his eye, chewing the scenery, the raft, and finally his fellow actors.Sarone contrives to send Dr. Cale into a coma, takes over the raft, and soon we are hot on the trail, or tail, of snakes, one longer and with wider girth than the next.  If you're familiar with this genre and plot structure, you just KNOW what's going to happen and how it's all going to turn out.But you're not here for the plot structure to surprise you.  You're here to be terrified by the thought of being devoured by a snake the length of a railroad car and the film never lets us down.  The effects, especially the animatronical snakes, are excellent throughout and that's what makes this film such a terrifying screamer.  They look real, and perform actual snake behavior as the bite deep into the flesh, wind their coils around the body of the hapless victim and then squeeeeeeeeeze. Be prepared to have the fingernails of the person sitting next to you buried deep into your wrist.And remember, if you can't breathe, you can't scream!  "},{"Title":"sssss....sucks","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is not a good movie, a laughable point is Jon Voights strange accent (if you can figure out where he is supposed to be from please let me know). I think Eric Stoltz did the right thing by going into a coma early through the movie and coming out of it towards the end.  I am sure that many guys will enjoy the Jennifer Lopez element of the movie. "},{"Title":"I Confess What a Mess!","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda seemed to be a sure-thing before it was released. It sported great special effects, got an early-summer release, and has some big names in it (Jon Voight, Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube). However, this is a tedious trial to watch from the word go. Easily one of the biggest disappointments of the 1990s, the film deals with a documentary film crew who go deep into the Amazon to find a tribe of legendary Indians. Instead they run into the titled beast and must fight for their very lives. Even the so-called state-of-the-art special effects look sophomoric in this terrible movie. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "}{"Title":"Forces One To Root For The Snake","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"23 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Except for Jon Voight's character, I didn't find any of the actors/characters in this film likable, just annoying. Voight was hardly a role model, either. I wound up rooting for the anaconda. Ice Cube, Jonathan Hyde, Jennifer Lopez...all playing people with chips on their shoulders. Sorry, but rappers with attitudes or snobby Englishmen aren't entertaining to me.In here, too, is the all-too-familiar cheap shot against Christians in which they show the worst, most despicable person in the story and then zoom in several times to show you the cross that sleazebag is wearing. They always want to make that association and they make it obvious every time. What makes the movie tolerable at all is the great Brazlian swamp scenery and good special effects with the giant snake. Yeah, sometimes the snake scenes look a bit computer-generated but more than not, they are just plain scary. A few of them are downright jaw-dropping as when it flies through the air, swallows human beings or swims while on fire. This is nice on DVD with rich visuals and very good surround sound.If only the people in the movie were half as good as the scenery. "},{"Title":"As inept a piece of film-making as I have ever seen","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"28 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I wouldn't have wasted my time commenting on this one if it weren't for the people (not just the ones on this site) willing to speak out in its defence.  Well, sort of.  Instead of a DEFENCE, exactly, you're more likely to hear remarks like, `Of course it's bad - that's why I like it!' (okaaay ...); and, `It's bad, but if you'd had a different upbringing, you would have liked it' ... which can be truly said of every bad film ever made, so it's not saying much.I'll just concentrate on the long concluding sequence, with snake after snake ... or was it just one snake?  This is a film with deathless, invulnerable, heroes and villains, so I'm not entirely convinced that anyone or anything in it was ever killed.  But anyway talk about one-note!  The film's `conclusion' was the dramatic equivalent of some guy on a bagpipe droning out a low G for twenty minutes and calling it a tune.  Constant screaming, constant movement, constant boredom.  Even I, I who loathe computer graphics, especially when they're as bad as this (although there were some animatronic snake effects as well, and these were passable), could not have cared less about the special effects - I was too busy marvelling at the lack of creativity, how the director never once so much as lifted a finger to make his footage suspenseful or moving or fun to watch.  Has anyone experienced sleep paralysis?  That's what the conclusion of `Anaconda' felt like.  I could probably have turned it off during the dull first half, but then sleep paralysis set in and my muscles refused to obey my desires.That'll teach me to watch something just because it's bad.Fans of Jennifer Lopez might like looking at her.  I didn't.  Don't take this the wrong way - I'm sure she's supremely gorgeous in real life, but on screen, or at least on THIS screen, she comes across as the product of the same Hollywood cloning factory that produced - you know - what's her name. "},{"Title":"Try not to get to scared","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" If you want see a really scary monster movie. This is the one to see. This is one of the scariest movies made before 2004. Anacondas The hunt for the blood Orchid is scarier. But still this a very scary movie. I don't care what the silly critics say. This movie has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. Some people go to the Amazon in make a nature documentary. There running to some very big Anacondas. This a very scary movie. See it. Jennifer Lopez is a great actress. Ice Cube is a great actor. Eric S.t.o.l.t.z is a great actor. Jon V.o.i.g.h.t is a great actor. All the Anaconda movies are must sees. "},{"Title":"Wasn't Necessarily a Total Waste of Time","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This movie begins with a film crew heading out on a large boat up the Amazon River in search of a lost Indian tribe known in legend as the Shirishamas. Along the way they pick up a man named Paul Serone whose boat has broken down and needs assistance. They agree to take him with them and are delighted when he tells them that he has actually seen the Shirishamas and he then proceeds to give them directions to their village. Unfortunately, the directions he gives them turn out to be somewhat misleading and it's then that they realize that he has a hidden agenda which almost immediately imperils all of them. Now as far as this movie is concerned I have mixed feelings about it. I liked the scenery and the presence of Jennifer Lopez who was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Actress. On the other hand I didn't care so much for the second-rate Al Pacino impression of Scarface given by Jon Voight. Apparently, I am not the only one who was less-than-impressed as he was nominated for a Golden Razeberry Award as Worst Actor. Deservedly so. Be that as it may this wasn't necessarily a total waste of time and as a result I have rated it as just slightly below average. "},{"Title":"A pretty bad film? Yes, but Voight prevents it from being completely awful","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" A film crew sets sail along the Amazon to film a documentary on the 'People of the Mist'. Along the way they stumble across Paul Serone (Jon Voight) an expert 'snake trapper' who is stranded at the side of the river claiming that the propeller broke on his boat. Serone is seemingly helpful at the beginning, but as the journey unfolds his real 'persona' starts to come through putting the whole crew in danger.The premise for this film is good on paper and seems to be a cross between King Kong and Dead Calm. Unfortunately, it is more Dead Calm than King Kong (I didn't like Dead Calm, but this film is definitely worse). The film attempts to be thrilling and exciting the problem here is that you can predict the outcome of everything way before it happens meaning that there isn't really any suspense. The worst example of this is Serone's re-appearance after the surviving members of the crew thought they'd killed him (like a classic pantomime villain). The dialogue was fairly dull and clunky with only the odd exchange between Ice Cube and Jonathan Hyde resembling anything remotely funny or interesting.The writing in this film is at best inconsistent and at worst awful; as the narrative unfolds Serone starts to pick off the crew one by one, but early on Cale is on the verge of dying, but Serone opts to save him by cutting a hole in his throat or windpipe in order to allow the poison to seep out (I think), but why keep him alive? It may have been to buy Serone time to trick the crew into believing that he's directing the crew to a hospital, but it seemed a long winded and stupid way to co-ordinate his plan. It also means that he'll always have one more person that he needs to kill. Another good one is when he says that the snakes have heat sensors to enable them to be able to detect humans in the water, but yet Serone walks through the water himself at one point. If he knew that they could detect heat then why did he walk through the water himself and risk getting himself killed? Was Serone perhaps on a suicide mission or was that just a dumb piece of writing? I'm inclined to believe the latter.Voight was easily the best thing about this film; his constant mugging and grimacing in front of the camera was just a joy to watch. It's almost like he was saying to himself 'I'm too good for this trash' and he'd be right. I wonder if he'd modelled his own performance on that of Robert De Niro's performance in Cape Fear. The only other person who came close to being as good to Voight was Hyde but even he fell a long way short. The rest of the cast put in sub-par performances with many of the crew merely being fodder for the snakes.To sum it up then it's a pretty dreadful film with only Jon Voight attempting to give it any semblance of fun and excitement. Taking Voight out of the equation you're left with a film with very little else that's good about it. "},{"Title":"A poor man's Jaws set on the Amazon","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda first and foremost is a stupid film. The film makers make no attempt to be anything else. It is something of a Jaws rip off, only with Jon Voight with a European accent replacing Robert Shaw, Ice Cube replacing Roy Scheider and Jennifer Lopez and Eric Stoltz playing an amalgamation of the Richard Dreyfuss role. Only instead of running from a fake looking shark that we don't see much and brought to life using practical effects, they are running from a fake looking snake, brought to life using CGI that we see far too much.having settled that the film is intentionally stupid, the main question then becomes is it fun? Fortunately for Anaconda, I think it is quite a fun movie. There's not a lot of emotional investment in the characters who are all straight from the cookie cutter, but the actors seem well aware of this. Voight especially is hamming it up, chewing scene after scene. Owen Wilson and Danny Trejo drop in to be slaughtered. Jennifer Lopez runs around in a wet t-shirt and the snake catches a man in mid air who's jumped off a waterfall.The film does not engage the viewers brain at all, but to its credit, doesn't try to. This is B-Grade Saturday matinée fun with a cast full of future and past A-Listers and a bigger budget than the subject matter deserves. At worst a guilty pleasure and at best a fun little film that is entertaining in its own right. "},{"Title":"Typical B-movie.","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This is a typical B-movie where a National Geographic film crew is taken hostage by a mad hunter, who takes them on his quest to the Amazon capture the world's largest and deadliest snake called Anaconda. It features a well-known cast including Jon Voight, Owen Wilson, Jonathan Hyde, Jennifer Lopez and Eric Stoltz.There is really no plot or story to the movie, just a lot of CGI/robotic snake action, the typical monster-chase-victim scenes, lots of screaming and people arguing and fighting one another. There's plenty of action to make the movie breeze by and some cheesy CGI/robotic effects that will make you utter a few laughs, but, unfortunately, it suffers from some plot inconsistencies probably due to editing oversight. Watch at your own risk.Grade D+ "},{"Title":"Big Snake","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Luis Llosa directed this surprise hit that stars Jon Voight as a crazed hunter in the Amazon jungle who tricks a documentary film crew(played by Jennifer Lopez, Eric Stoltz, Ice Cube, Jonathan Hyde, Owen Wilson, & Kari Wuhrer) into helping him track down a mythical giant anaconda snake that proves to be no myth. Eventually taking over the ship, the hunter endangers everyone's life with his pursuit of the creature into its lair, and not all of them will escape with their lives... Jon Voight is so over-the-top here than it becomes quite amusing, though despite this, this otherwise routine and predictable film is an unsuccessful throwback to the Creature From The Black Lagoon. Still, there was a sequel! "},{"Title":"A movie that should make 0 stars possible","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" A dumb annoying movie with dumb annoying characters that don't seem to have a clue about finding their way around the Amazons. Poor performances from the whole cast including Jon Voight as the bad-guy. The crew on the boat are acting so moronic that they all deserve what's coming to them. And it takes forever before there is any action at all. And before the anaconda actually appears for the first time. Not even as a monster movie does this deliver. And I can't stand Eric Stoltz an ugly ginger version of Michael J Fox. Don't even watch this if someone pays you to watch it. It's that bad. "},{"Title":"A Complete piece of junk","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I Saw this movie on VHS Years ago and it was just awful and I Disagree with both siskel and ebert, this movie is so bad on every scene, it makes me wanna cringe, the premise, A National geographic crew goes to the amazon to look for this, when all of sudden a Giant snake attacks them and with the help of a hunter, played with embarrassment by one of my favorite actors John Voight tries to stop the snake and kill it before it kills anybody else, this is not only one of the worst movies of all time, but one of the worst films ever made, the acting is horrible, the special effects are not very good, the writing is pathetic and the only thing is saves this movie from a half to no star rating is the beautiful amazon river, otherwise this movie is a waste of time and your money.Wanna see a better monster movie, See Jaws. "}{"Title":"Poorly Crafted","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda (1997, Dir. Luis Llosa) When a documentary crew travelling through the Amazon jungle, picks up a stranded man (Voight), they are unaware of the trouble that will occur. This stranger's hobby is to capture the giant Anaconda snake, and plans to continue targeting it on their boat, by any means necessary.Acceptable effects and an interesting performance by Jon Voight fail to make much of a movie which suffers by poor acting and a lifeless story. This movie needed more work on before starting production, before in writing and casting choices.Where do you think he's gone? A walk in the woods? - Warren Westridge (Jonathan Hyde) "},{"Title":"$165m dollars worth of bad?","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anyone who suggests that Anaconda is a bad film is missing the point. I agree that it's not particularly thought-provoking, nor is it offering a particularly layered narrative, but it is ENTERTAINING in an escapist sort of way. And this is exactly the point of film, and in particular this sort of story.Comments that suggest at its ineptness indirectly poke an inadvisable finger in the eye of 'dumbed-down' audiences, who by their inference, allowed $165m of business to be generated by a poor film.That's not a smart perspective!Film is a business, there to generate income by appealing to the cinematic desires of set demographics of audience. It's not about art, it's not even about necessarily good stories, or good acting (though both contribute to greater levels of success). Filmmakers appeal through a common denominator in order to achieve success, and each genre has its own denominators. Understand what those are, deliver on audience expectations, and you're guaranteed (if such guarantee can ever be found in film) commercial success. Too many films, that struggle at box office, ignore at their peril what audiences desire. and those desires have steadily grown more sophisticated as the years have gone by. That is, films such as Venom which invoked memories of 1970's slasher pictures, struggled. Audiences are acclimatised, nee saturated by those sorts of films, and are looking more more interesting, and sophisticated forms of blood-letting in horror films. Anaconda delivered on that way back in 1997 and I would suggest that if such a film were made today it would fall flat on its box office face.So, Anaconda may not appeal to YOUR tastes and sensibilities, but it appealed to the masses, at the time of its release, and in that regard it was a GOOD film - $165m worth of good.Ras "},{"Title":"Not a Bad Movie","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Okay, the movie is not the greatest, but it's not that bad either. The movie's story features a an extra-large creature but instead of a huge gorilla, this movie has a huge snake - and no Fay Wray. Now, the snake is angry, but can you blame it? It's a snake, and man has infringed on its territory. The acting is not bad and Jon Voight proves that he can transform a poor script into something that at least is credible. And Jennifer Lopez proves that she is a good actress. But Mr. Voight is the star of this movie and for that reason, this movie is watchable. But this movie's message is clear keep away from the snake, and admire it from a safe distance because if you get too close, it could ruin your vacation. "},{"Title":"Campy ,Humorless 'B' Adventure Hokum","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Despite being actually filmed on the Amazon river and expensive CGI effects,ANACONDA is basically no more than 'B' picture adventure fodder,with dialogue,plotting and performances to match.The script is hopelessly hackneyed and wooden,and Jennifer Lopez gives the dullest performance,mainly because she has the dullest lines.I actually think J-Lo isn't a bad actress when given decent scripts to work with(U-TURN,OUT OF SIGHT),but her agent either generally picks mediocre/bad scripts,or she overrules and picks them herself! Most of her film career to date is composed of below-average scripts(or even beneath that!),and this is no exception.The rest of the cast(Ice Cube,Jonathan Hyde)fare little better with the arrant stereotyped characters present,though at least Jon Voight keeps interest going with a richly hammy performance.His character is pure cardboard too,but his odd accent(a curious hybrid of Spanish,Czech,German and Godfather Brandoesque)is perversely fascinating.Voight's overplaying may have been even been more enjoyable on the Jack Nicholson-Joker level had there been a trace of wit in the script;the fact that this is non-existent considerably mitigates against the film.The same year's MEN IN BLACK had similar 'B' picture credentials,but at least it had better production and CGI,witty lines,a genial Will Young,and genuinely frightening monsters(especially towards the end);the scaly one itself here is rather poorly composed,and it's sleight-of-mouth with Mr.Voight near the end is more (unintentionally)amusing than chilling.Apparently,Anacondas in real life are mostly rather shy and difficult to find in the Amazon,and have rarely had humans for their lunch.The one in this film seems to have a serial grudge against all humankind,and a severe bulimia condition!If you want camp 'B' picture fun,check out PIRANHA(1978)instead.Now that was both FUNNY and FRIGHTENING. "},{"Title":"It will take your break away...from laughter!","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Dumb, dumb, snake flick, where the only think more reptilian than the badly CGI-ed snake (It looked like a cut&paste from Anaconda the Playstation Game) is Jon Voight, giving a performance so hammy, you'd expect Hormmel to be tattooed on him. The rest of the cast sleepwalks through their role (literally, in Eric Stolz case. Although that ends up being aborted subplot #156 in this movie so never mind.) J-Lo, Owen Wilson, and Kari Wuhehr all end up giving their standard poorly acted performance, while Ice Cube plays himself (the hip brotha once again. TONS of goofs and inconsistencies for spot the mistake fans (But imagine how tourism would increase in the Amazon Rain Forrest in people knew it contained a waterfall that could somehow go iup/i) And don't forget about the scene where Jon Voight gives the phrase winking at the audience a whole new meaning. That just some of the terrible directing and corny dialogue contained in this silly snake movie.Oh yeah, there are scenes where the fakey-looking snake vomits it's dinner back. After seeing this crap, I'd felt like doing the same too. 1 star out of 10.  "},{"Title":"'Anaconda'ranks as one of best big snake movies of all-time","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Rating PG-13 and bring vomit bagThis exciting movie ranks with the greatest big snake pictures throughout the anals (note I purposely misspelled 'annals')of movie history, including Boa vs. Python and others.Great name actors fill the movie. I always loved Jon Voigt's acting and Jennifer Lopez' body (or was it, I loved Jon's body and Jennifer's acting...NO, no, I'm pretty sure it was the first way I stated)Lopez was just beginning to rise to stardom's top. Why she didn't become engaged to the Anaconda off-screen, I don't know, given her proclivities.Voigt was at his best earlier in his career, with the immortal lines from Midnight Cowboy (1969 Best Picture)when he confessed, I ain't a fur-real cowboy, but I AM one helluva stud!Voigt, with his indistinguishable, phantom-dialect disguised to be Hispanic (we think)he had more historic dialogue, such as the never-to-be-forgotten, Mateo!! Mat-e-o!! Where are you!?Although the snake mercilessly climaxes this movie by swallowing Voigt, there could have been a much better ending. The snake, of course, is killed and burned -not before regurgitating Voigt (was he smiling?)...had he survived the fire, the snake would've died from indigestion.A better finale would have had a voice over from Dustin Hoffman. There was a 'credit' to the movie for the voice of the snake (I really am unsure what the hell that means)..but the best ending would be the snake, in the Brooklynese of Ratso Rizzo says to Voigt, Even you could score in Miami.Now that would be a picture.  "},{"Title":"decent and entertaining fluff","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  decent and entertaining fluff with decent acting by Jon Voight but the rest is mediocre and laughable the snake and computer effects in general are impressive the script kinda sucks though the effects are sometimes laughable but most of the time pretty good and there is not much gore just a little here and there Jennifer Lopez does okay but isn't anything special at all ice cube is decent but his lines sometimes made him look bad Owen Wilson is awful his character is always annoying and i was glad to see him die  Kari Whurner is hot but her acting is thin   overall this is very cheesy but still enjoyable in a dopey way and the dialog is fun to laugh at i give this a **1/2 out of 5 because it was just a fun time it isn't anything special and we have seen it plenty of times before but i just had fun with it overall "},{"Title":"decent and entertaining fluff","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  decent and entertaining fluff has some good acting by Jon Voight but the other actors are average and mediocre at best with some very good snake effects and great computer effects but the dialog sucks and some of the attacks are laughable now the script isn't that great and isn't anything new but it is entertaining enough with a lot of chuckles but Owen Wilson character annoyed me and was glad to see him die the script has lots of problems for instance  the snakes yes generally excellent but sometimes it looked real fake and not much gore except a few snake bites here and there so this is a pretty cheesy movie but still enjoyable in a dopey kind of way **1/2 out of 5 was going to go with a ** but the second half was very exciting so  "},{"Title":"Yawn.","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is a instantly forgeteable try at making a decent monstermovie, featuring J Lo, Ice Cube and a badly animated snake.--WARNING! SPOILERS AHEAD!--The plot is dumb, but the men behind it seems to ignore reality. If they knew anything about snakes than they wouldn't let that ugly, badly animated bastard regurgiate the people it has righteously swallowed, since snakes can't do that. Another large plothole is the one where the snake keeps eating people as if they were snacks. Snakes seldom eat and if they ate humans they wouldn't have to eat in weeks. Many might not be bothered about this, maybe I wouldn't either if it has had any redeeming parts but doesn't.This movie is in other words an insult to everyone who knows anything about these reptiles. But it won't stop there. This movie also insults those who see it by being so mindnumbingly stupid and predictable.In other words this movie is a joke. Watch it, and the joke is on you.  "},{"Title":"Not Scary","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"   Spoilers.  If your looking for a horror movie this movie is not scary at all. But what it is, is a great, violent, thriller. A filming crews boat gets taken over (in Africa i guess) by a mad hitch hiker that they pick up. There is chaos. He trys to capture a very deadly snake. So the people on the filming crew are basically screwed.  This is one of those movies where almost everyone dies. You know. If you like violent creature films, you'll like it, but if your looking for a scary movie, it's not worth your time.   "}{"Title":"COME ON PEOPLE!!!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This wasn't a bad B Movie.  It was a good one.  Jennifer Lopez(a pre bimbo/pre Hollywood Lopez)did some decent acting,I detest her but she was natural here.  Ice Cube rocks anyday and Jon Voight is scary as the baddie, remember the wink when he got spat out.  I almost split my sides laughing.  But the movie followed on evilly showing the greed in men's nature when they seeks prizes larger than life.  I think that's what people are missing, the smaller picture, this is a composition of small pictures. See it, suspend your disbelief and have a good time. "},{"Title":"hmm?","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I didn't find the idea of a giant snake hunting down people appealing, but this film is entertaining, but I rather have seen another creature attack than a snake. Anaconda is no masterpiece, good thing Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube are in this or this would have gotten even lower ratings. Anaconda is a interesting movie, if you are into the snake thing check it out and J-Lo too. "},{"Title":"Pre-Diva Era Jennifer Lopez at its Finest","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  There's Snakes Out Here This Big?This is fun, mindless and entirely disposable entertainment. I wish Jennifer Lopez would have stayed interested in Hollywood and forgot about the whole music thing. Anyway most of her newer movies seem just plain bad, whereas this is bad, but still fun the first time you see it. Ice Cube is great at being there, if not at acting entirely too convincingly. I recommend everyone see this movie at least once.6 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"A cool monster flick !","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda is another one of those Monster movies but it's actually a good one. The story is simple and the film certainly isn't too deep and involving but that doesn't mean it's not fun to watch . The star of this film isn't the giant Anaconda but actor John Voight who gives a great over the top performance as a snake hunter . As far as the rest of the cast is concerned most of them are quite good , except Ice Cube gives the usual rapper turned actor performance . Jennifer Lopez on the other hand is a bit better.As far as the special effects go the CGI animated snake looks a bit fake at times but the mechanical snake looks pretty good .Another plus for the movie is a good score by Randy Edelman . If you're looking for a fun and cool monster movie then check this one out , if you're looking for something with alot of substance then look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"man vs. nature","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"    A group of reseachers explore the wild life in the swamps. They are sidetrack by a snake hunter played by Jon Voight. In this movie which I like the most is Ice Cube does a lot of stunts like jumping off a boat and into the water,escaping the jaws of death,and saving Jennifer Lopez. Which she also does various stunts in the movie. That year (1997) was the breakthrough for J-Lo who became as rising star. It's about time there are minority survivors in a thriller movie. "},{"Title":"Cheesy snake movie.","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  CGI is a great tool for some movies...this is not one of them.  The snake in most scenes is so fake looking that they might as well made the entire movie a cartoon for crying out loud.  There are some watchable areas though...Jon Voight is rather good, so is Owen Wilson and a couple of the other cast members, especially considering this is a giant snake movie.  Lopez (who is an awful actress and singer) and Ice Cube aren't very good.  All the snake attack scenes suck and aren't very believable at all.  Well I might as well say it; none of the scenes with our title character are very good.  I got most queasy when Voight cut Stolz's throat to help him breath for crying out loud.  This is a pretty good movie though to make fun of so you can have some fun watching it anyway. "},{"Title":"Really Average","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" FORMULA FOR MOVIE PRESENTED WITHIN! SPOILERS!This movie is, in essence, really average. This is so similar to Jurassic Park 3... Of course, JPIII WAS made years after, but I can see where it borrowed. Anaconda was well received, and it wasn't a bad movie. What it was was average.It followed a certain formula. Crew finds evil guy, evil guy finds snake, snake finds snack, snake finds evil guy. Yadayadayada.So, average. No more, no less.  "},{"Title":"I do not like this one bit","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  My sister likes these kinds of movies but I don't enough said let's get down to business A National Geographic film crew is taken hostage by an insane hunter, who takes them along on his quest to capture the worlds largest and deadliest snake named Anaconda. This film is mainly about really big and scary snakes. Paul Sarone is the insane hunter he also forces the crew to track the snake down because he loves eating human beings for lunch. Scenes with Jennifer Lopez in tight wet clothing abound this film and so do some memorable scenes and situations. On behalf of humans everywhere this movie stinks "},{"Title":"That's one big-ass snake!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, and Jon Voight.A National Geographic film crew is doing a documentary down the Amazon River.  When they find a man along the coast, they pick him up.  He ends up being a crazy poacher who is looking for the legendary snake, the anaconda.  he will find any mean necessary to get the snake.  Even if it resorts to using the crew as bait.The movie has some nice frightening scenes with the anaconda and Jon Voight.  The actors have some good fun, but never tend to take it as seriously as they should have. "},{"Title":"Who opened the large case of peanuts?","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The snake in this film is the most obviously fake animal I have ever seen in a film. The overall plot plays like something out of a double feature at a 1950's drive in theater. A popular cast mainly consisting of Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube with Jon Voight as the villain is severely wasted and Eric Stoltz gets huge billing even though his character is incapacitated and doesn't move for most of the film. "}{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is one fast paced fun little flick! Never mind that the giant snake in question never looks real once. Just suspend your sense of logic & reasoning and sit back and enjoy. This film is about Jon Voight (in a good nasty performance) taking a film crew hostage and forcing them to help him track down the world's largest snake who just happens to love to eat humans for lunch. Many memorable scenes and situations abound in this film. As does several scenes of Jennifer Lopez in tight wet clothing!Rated PG-13; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Very good! contains spoilers","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I think this film is brilliant! Its about these film makers filming a documentary in the Amazon. Then they pick up a weird Paraguayan snake hunter. This weird  hunter is obsessed with catching a live 40 foot Anaconda and he loses all but one of the film makers trust and the one who trusts him is the one in charge. Then everything goes wrong and the film makers are in great danger!  "},{"Title":"At least they haven't made a sequel yet","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Cheeze'oh big snake flick with obvious computer FX boasts especially BAD performance from Jon Voight as evil snake tamer. Usual chuckles soon unfold with pretty male boat driver the 1st to be consumed (as always). J Lo, before she hit the big time, wrapped up in giant death squeeze; must be a huge creature to get around her famous behind. Tho' for once, costar Ice Cube actually allowed to live to final reel... "},{"Title":"No..no way","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I wouldn't normally give my time to a movie as bad as this, but after reading the featured comment, I felt I had to write this. Don't believe what that guy wrote!!! This film doesn't mean to be cheesy! It is a complete waste of time, has bad acting, a terrible script and the CGI effects are pants! If you want cheese, watch Starship Troopers again and see how it is meant to be done! "},{"Title":"A snake?","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  A snake? That's just weird. You can understand a shark. That makes sense. But a snake going after people is just plain creepy and weird. This movie isn't bad and it isn't great. It is somewhere down the middle. It gives some good scares and the actors do an okay job. The story is acceptable but still weird. "},{"Title":"Cheeseorama!!!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  *Warning! Spoilers!*  This was the first film I took my now wife to. I am lucky there was a second date.   ANACONDA was so cheesy it was unbelievable! Jon Voight spent his screen time doing some major scenery chewing before he is eaten himself. What he does after he is spit out by the snake has to be seen to be believed.  The snake looked real to me, but, come on, it is shot in the head at point blank range and it is still alive??? What a joke!  The good The special effects. The bad The plot. The ugly Jon Voight.  Yes, this film would have been better served as a direct-to-video release.  "},{"Title":"an ok movie","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  i had a pretty good time watching this movie, actually. I know the actors aren't great, and the plot isn't all that good, but it offered a few good scares. The main reason why i liked it was because of the anaconda i thought he looked pretty scary!       I'd like to recommend this movie to anyone who's scared of snakes (like me). I give it a 7.  "},{"Title":"To Keeel the Snake, You Must Theeenk Like the Snake... =8P","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Stupid, silly snake moovie that just goes to show that cgi effects look just like cgi effects, and that building a moovie around them, without the benefit of a plot, is like tip-toeing through the cow pies yer gonna get stinky.  It's bad enough seeing Jennifer Lopez and Eric Stoltz sink to such depths (where Kari Wurher and Ice Cube apparently belong), but Jon Voight manages to thoroughly embarrass himself moost of all with all the grace and charm of a dead walrus.  His thick, cheesy, Speedy Gonzalez accent, and over-the-top performance, won howls of derision from the whole herd in the theater. Very slim pickings indeed here; MooCow says ferget this flick onnacownta it stinks!! =8P "},{"Title":"Do not watch","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This film did not have anything original to bring to the big monster genre. Every line and action scene was cliche and predictable. Only it's special effects made the film interesting, unfortunately they were wasted on a giant snake. John Voight, who I consider to be a very good actor gives one of the worst performances I have seen this year. His accent is terrible. Where is this guy supposed to be from? Eric Stoltz's character is unconscious through most of the film, hands down the best performance of the film. We could only wish the rest of the cast was unconscious as well and the film could be cut by eighty minutes. The ending is predictable and leaves you wishing you had those two hours back.  "},{"Title":"Just plain bad","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie is almost at the bottom of the barrel. I mean, sure it gave me SOME thrills, but the special effects made those thrills boring. Also one thing that's really cheap about this film is the cast. I mean, there are only, what, 8 people in the entire cast! That probably means that they didn't want to pay a lot of money for casting, so they gathered up a few unknowns, then added some famous actors so that when people saw that Ice Cube is in it, they would think to themselves, WOW! I've gotta see this movie! Do yourself a favor and don't rent this movie. "}{"Title":"People chased by computer graphics","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I was expecting a good B-movie, but this one is the pits. John Voight's school of lisp-acting makes him a ridiculous villain, and the snake wouldn't fool a field mouse. Too bad, for the location is beautiful. "},{"Title":"The Newest Screen Villain...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Searching the Amazon for a lost tribe of natives, a documentary film crew rescues a mysterious man who forces them on a dangerous mission to find a gigantic killer snake. The thrills are droll. The actors, especially Voight, are forced into overacting and the visual effects are as exciting as June Allyson undressing. Eric Stoltz has a small role and thanks to the script, his career won't be completely marred for this film.  "},{"Title":"Z-Grade","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda for the most part is a really bad movie.  I tuned in expecting some mindless fun, but it was just plain awful.  The sad thing about it is, with the possible exception of John Voight, it was actually taking itself seriously.This film was obviously trying to be Jaws with a snake.  Unfortunately it resembles Jaws 3 more than the original masterpiece.  I think it was supposed to be scary, but it most definitely was not.  The main reason for this was that not for one second did the Anaconda look remotely real.  We were either presented with some really lame looking animatronics sort of thing, or an even more lame CGI version.  And it was always completely obvious which one.  Neither of these snakes moved anything like any snake I've ever seen.  And how many big snakes were there?  One snake, even of that size, surely couldn't have digested all those people that quickly.  The only remotely chilling part in the film is when their boat gets covered in 'real' snakes.  Not nearly enough is made of this moment though.Well enough of the SFX, let's trash the acting.  Bland, Bland, Bland, Bland. It really is one of the worst ensembles you could come across.  It wasn't really their fault though, De Niro would have had trouble with that script. Only Jennifer Lopez escapes with any dignity with an earnest performance despite the ludicrous situations.  Luckily for Eric Stolz he's unconscious for most of the film.  Voight must have been paid a hefty sum for this role, because his character is just plain stupid.Reading what I just put down, I'm wondering why I watched the whole film. Basically it was because of Lopez's outfits.  But because I made it to the end I did witness the film change from bad to merely mediocre.  This happened in the finale when it stopped trying to be scary and turned into an action movie, with explosions and so forth.3/10 - Skip the first 80min and watch the finale. "},{"Title":"This was a very good movie.","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I think that this movie was very good.  The graphics were good in most parts.  The movie was so quick you couldn't tell that some of the graphics weren't good. "},{"Title":"Poppycock is the best way to describe this movie","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" That said, Anaconda is not bad enough to be one of the worst movies ever made. The tropical scenery is splendid, the snakes are impressive and the premise while daft was at least interesting. However, if I were to coin the phrase absolute poppycock I would give it to Anaconda. The story was interesting in its concept but it is very predictable with some unbearably silly scenes. Anaconda is also quite poorly paced, sometimes it drags, sometimes it feels rushed. The script is very cheesy and clumsy, and the characters are shallow. The direction is rather murky, and the acting is pretty dire. Jennifer Lopez is very bland in her role here, while Jon Voight is annoying and just awful with a very poorly written character, complete with a horrendous accent(not quite SuperbabiesBaby Geniuses 2 horrendous, but still it was dreadful). So overall, it is not good. 3/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"You Can't Say Anything Bad About This Move","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This is probably the best move of all time. It's got water. And trees. And animals. And a girl. And a black guy. And a crazy guy. And guns. And an adventure. And historical stuff. And mind games. And tension. And black humor. And special effects that are pretty good. Way better than Star Wars, anyway. And a satisfying ending. And there's maybe the best cinematography of all time, or photography, or whatever you call it, of all time, when there's a scene that starts out upside down. But you DON'T EVEN KNOW that it's upside down. Until the scene slowly turns upside down. And then you realize that it's not upside down anymore! Whoa. That was good. Seriously. Great, in fact.And the fact is that John Voight is the key to this movie. Without him it's a completely stupid snake move. With him it's a story of a crazy guy toying with a bunch of spoiled morons. And the snake has a lesson or two also. "},{"Title":"It's bad! Kill it now!","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Before you read my post, I'll inform you that I really haven't found a film in the thriller genre that I would consider so-good-I-wanna-see-it-again-and-buy-the-DVD! However, Anaconda was one of the worst 'thrillers' I've ever seen. Like any other film in this genre, expect many gruesome deaths and for most of the characters to be killed off for the sake of being 'entertainment' and disposable and worth a few cheap special effects. (I guess, that is comparable to the dollars I spent seeing this film at the cinema and the time I will never recover from doing so.) You can even predict who is going to die and who is going to live in most of these films - I've placed some successful bets by doing this. The characters are forgettable, and there isn't a storyline. It's basically just about people getting gobbled up by giant snakes. Oh what fun! It's too bad that they didn't kill the script first. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN TRACES OF POSSIBLE SPOILERSI hated this movie. First of all, John Voight's accent was absolutely horrible and his talents are completely wasted in this movie. Was he supposed to be Mexican? Spanish? I couldn't even tell.This movie follows the whole almost-everyone-dies-but-two-or-three-people motif that is often used in horror or slasher flicks, where you are left wondering and even betting on who will be next. Even so, those movies are at least funny, like Jason X. Anaconda is a tremendously awful and predictable film that has no real humor at all. I only laughed because it was SO BAD! Snakes can't burp people up! And even if they could he wouldn't still be alive after!!! What were they thinking?Even the special effects are crap. This movie is an absolute and utter waste of time, money and film that should be avoided by all. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Primetime Actors... Wasted","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  A quick gander at the headliners (Jon Voight, Owen Wilson, Kari Wuhrer, and to a lesser extent Ice Cube, Eric Stolz, and J-Lo) might lead one to believe this film had some GREAT things to offer.  After all, someone enticed these big names to climb aboard.  I wish the casting agency that was so persuasive would come work for the Minnesota Vikings, as they convinced this cast to both take on completely flat roles and be made to look like horrible actors at the same time.  Oh, wait.  Maybe they already DO work for our Vikes...Almost nothing works here.  The story is silly, the dialogue is drab, the direction is clumsy, and the namesake star (the snake) is pretty pitiful.  Speaking of the anaconda, the effects team must not have been paid on time - the snake looks fuzzy and painted in for a good portion of the film.  If you're a reptile fanatic or hate cold-blooded creatures, this reptilian representation will stretch your endurance for flat-out fiction.  The characters' motivations (including Mr. Snakey) begged the audience to cry aloud, AW, COME ON! on more than one occasion.  Jon Voight, having been recently nominated for an academy award for his performance in ALI, must want to hide this title from his resume.  His character, Paul Sarone, is utter ridiculousness in celluloid form.  From his ludicrously phony accent to his bizarre backstory, Sarone is so far out there it almost hurts to watch.  The rest of the cast and characters aren't much of an improvement.  At best, they're the worst type of Hollywood charicatures all thrown onto a boat together.  Whoo-pee.The tagline, You can't scream if you can't breathe, could probably be amended to say, You won't scream when you're asleep.  Trust us, it won't take long.    "},{"Title":"It knows it's bad, but that doesn't make it a good movie.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  ** stars out of **** Anaconda, a creature feature starring Jon Voight and Jennifer Lopez, never particularly struck me as a movie that would find an audience.  And yet, it did, grossing 16 million dollars over the first weekend, before ending its run with a little over 65 million.  I saw the movie myself, and it's really not much more than a Jaws clone.  Sure, it's infinitely better than all those unwatchable realistic creature flicks in the 80's, but it's at best mediocre.Terri Flores (Jennifer Lopez) is a documentary filmmaker who could possibly have her big break with the help of an archaeologist (Eric Stoltz), who believes he may have found the location of a lost tribe.  With a crew that consists of cameraman Danny Rich (Ice Cube), soundmen Gary Dixon (Owen Wilson) and Denise Kalber (Kari Wuhrer), and the documentary's pompous narrator, Westridge (Jonathan Hyde), they set down the Amazon River of South America in search of the tribe.They come across a stranded man named Sarone (Jon Voight), a seemingly harmless fellow who has a sinister secret to hide.  It seems he has plans to capture an anaconda, one of the largest snakes known to man, and he's going to force the crew to help, whether they like it or not.  The danger heightens, when they must not only deal with the madman, but with a ferocious snake that seems to be hunting them down.Anaconda has a trashy script, plain and simple.  Writers Hans Bauer and Jim Cash obviously weren't thinking of writing anything thought-provoking, and they opted to crank out a thriller that features inane dialogue and contrived plot situations.The acting isn't very good, either.  Jon Voight plays his part with his tongue stuck firmly in his cheek, and the result is pretty funny (I believe the effect is intentional).  Jennifer Lopez tries hard, but she really doesn't impress.  The same goes for rapper/actor Ice Cube.  Kari Wuhrer is fairly decent, surprisingly enough (she's also quite sexy and better looking than Lopez).  Everybody else fails to make an impression, or are either just there as fodder.But the movie does have some reedeemable factors.  For one thing, the fact that director Luis Llosa and Jon Voight know that the material is bad helps a bit.  This acknowledgement keeps unintentional laughter a tad lower than what would be expected from a film of this sort.  The movie also moves at a fast clip, and I was never really bored at all.  The action scenes are competent enough to stray away from anything too laughable, though the ending does stretch plausability (the snake has more lives than a cat).The special effects are of a hit-and-miss variety.  When it is animatronic, the snake is an impressive and realistic looking sight.  As for the CGI, that is not so impressive, to the extent where closeups of the snake have a cartoonish look and feel to it.As it goes, Anaconda will probably appease afficianados of this sort of film.  It has a fast pace, gorgeous cinematography, nice eye candy, and a slightly campy tone that will thrill certain viewers.  Everybody else should steer clear or watch with low expectations.  "}{"Title":"Stupid, stupid, stupid.....","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I must admit, I did NOT look forward to seeing this movie, but two of my friends insisted on renting it, and so I agreed - but they made a mistake - a BIG one! After seeing the movie we were ready to go back to Blockbuster, demanding our money back!It is absolutely the WORST movie I have ever seen - the story is just stupid, stupid, stupid....A GIANT snake makes a lot of noise, and jumps from a lake on to the ground and THROUGH a window! Yes you got it right... it jumped THROUGH a window!!!The directing is bad, the acting is worse, but the story is just so ridiculous that you won't believe your own eyes!!! And the special effects are very, very bad!This is not a B-movie - it is a Z-movie, just look at this goof copied from the Goofs here on IMDb Revealing mistakes When the boat backs away from the tree, a shot of the waterfall shows it flowing upwards!!! They didn't even care to take the shot again!I voted 1/10! "},{"Title":"Silly fun,  worth a look.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The good thing about this movie,  that has been overlooked inall the ANGRY reviews below,  is that it does NOT TAKE ITSELFSERIOUSLY!!!This is a relief after being konked over the head with thepretentiousness of GODZILLA and other popcorn-summer-teenageboy-movies.ANACONDA has the ability to wink at itself-  literally-  as ifto say,  We KNOW this is cheese,  but ain't it fun? And it is.  Jon Voight is as over the top as any villian in anymovie you've ever seen,  and the heros-  Jennifer Lopez and IceCube and Eric Stoltz-  form a kind of mod squad on the Amazon, with some witty banter and a little flirtation between all ofthem.Features Owen Wilson  (of Bottle Rocked  and The Haunting fame)  cutting wise at every oportunity he gets.This is,  of course,  the MOST fun if you are an teenager,  butwith the right viewing props-  i.e.  a few beers,  or whatevergets you through the night-  this is a fun  evening.. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Saturday Afternoon Classic","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Growing up in the 50's gave me the honor and privilege of being one the last generations of filmgoers to enjoy the Saturday afternoon double-feature matinee experience at the neighborhood theatre. These double-features were primarily low budget sci-fi/horror epics with slender threads of plot, lovely damsels in distress (Beverly Garland, Barbara Rush), square-jawed heroes (Peter Graves, Richard Carlson) and budget monsters from Mars, the grave, melted icebergs, mad scientist's labs or atomic fallout. Well not really. The monsters were usually guys in rubber suits (Creature From The Black Lagoon, This Island Earth), or cheap trick photography (Tarantula, Attack of the 50 Ft Woman), or  Mask and Glove illusion (I Was A Teenage Werewolf/Frankenstein, Monster On The Campus), or, if we were really lucky, a Ray Harryhausen stop motion creation.Needless to say this wasn't great cinema, but what it WAS, was a great fun time. Were you scared? Not really. Did you have the need for everything to be fact-based and believable? Of course not! You went to be entertained, to let your imagination merge with the sounds and images and have a good time, laughing or screaming. Could anyone really take the monster from It Conquered The World seriously, or wonder whether The Creature From The Black Lagoon was biologically possible or if it could anatomically deflower Julie Adams? Didn't matter. Instead, you let yourself meld into the film's world and travel along for the ride.Thus whether you were on the obviously and badly animated Angry Red Planet, or trapped with James Best on the island of dogs in make-up which were trying to pass for The Killer Shrews, you surrendered to the magic.My heart weeps for the post Star Wars filmgoers, these people weaned on special effects, the MTVers and video viewers who've had their imaginations and attention spans kidnapped and are told what to see and how to interpret it. I truly am sorry. You people missed a modern day, Grade B double feature, sci-fi/horror classic called Anaconda. And we hadn't seen one this good since Alien.Being an intelligent man, I realize the futility of convincing the non-believers who can't draw from the needed background reservoir to understand, so I won't bother preaching this film's virtues or try to win you over by fact and argument. This, however, is what I will say...This is a brilliant re-creation of the lost art of the 1950's double-feature sci-fi/horror genre; not really a homage to, more the real thing. It's Creature From The Black Lagoon, with a really cheesy computer animated snake in place of a guy in a really cheesy rubber suit. It's a Saturday afternoon classic for people who remember and understand them. Story is great, script is great, cinematography is great, direction is great, acting is great, the women beautiful and endangered, the heroes machismo and handsome, the monster phantasmagorical, and we get a bonus surprise by one of the greatest American actors, Jon Voight, doing a magnificent over-the-top, slimy, nasty, reprehensibly heartless villain, complete with sly wink to the audience. His performance is the key to the film. He understood the film's intent and translated it to the screen for you. If it's in your realm of understanding and experience, you get it and are able to partake in this little slice of cinema heaven.In 20 years, they'll be calling this a classic. I'm calling it one now.  "},{"Title":"They don't make bad movies anymore....Oh, They Don't?","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  My friend forced me to see this movie one Saturday night, promising me that it would be awesome.  When I left the theater all I could say was...Wow! Is there a worse movie than this one?  I personally don't think so.  I have seen my fair share of terrible movies (i.e. Godzilla, The Avengers, Dark City, Ravenous), but this has to take the cake.  Who gives the green-light to get stuff like this made.  The plot was just plain stupid, if not demeaning towards the people who had to sit through it.  What was going through the filmmaker's mind when he was making this motion picture.  Come on, we're not as stupid as you think (well, at least some of us aren't). Does he expect that a fake snake and some cheap (when i say cheap i mean very cheap) special effects are supposed to entertain the American Public? I don't think so.  Speaking of special effects, you'd think they could at least have decent special effects in a movie nowadays.  Well, I guess that's not true.  Also, who wrote this script?  Watching a dog urinate is more intellectual and smart than anything said in this movie.  And the acting...well, lets just say I've seen better acting on an episode of Saved By The Bell.  This movie is a prime example of what is wrong in Hollywood today.  No time and effort is put into a lot of projects and you end up getting crap like this.  Not to say that all movies suck, actually there are tons of awesome movies, but it just angers me when something like this released and allowed to be seen in public places.  This is one of the most insanely idiotic things I have ever seen. At no point in its rambling, incoherent running time was it even close to anything that could be considered a decent movie. Everyone who saw it is now dumber for having watched it. I pity anyone who saw it and may God have mercy on their soul. "},{"Title":"This movie really blows!!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This movie was pure idiotic ideas mixed in a hollywood horror b-movie. The acting in the movie was terrible. So was the snake in the movie. That is the worst excuse for a snake ever. I can't believe I sat through that movie. The only reason I decided to see that movie was to get a good laugh! And it worked too! Two Thumbs way way down!! "},{"Title":"You can't breathe if you're doubled up from laughter.","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Jon Voight needed a new set of tires, so he made this. (nudge wink)Fastest snake I ever did see. He sould be an outfielder, Lord knows he can make some fabulous catches.Loved it, a personal favorite stinker.  "},{"Title":"sssso bad","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda is up at the top of my list for on of the worst movies I've ever seen. The acting was horrible and not very believable at all. Jon Voight tried to act and sound like a tough Christopher Walken. I'm sure Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube and Jon Voight are looking back at this and saying, What was I thinking?   "},{"Title":"Do not, under any circumstances, see this movie!!","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  In Anaconda, you're forced to sit through an hour and a half of awful acting by 'Ice Cube' and Jennifer Lopez, a snake hunter with such a fake accent you can't understand him, and unintelligently laced together boat footage. This movie, well, is perfectly awful.  A total waste. It crashed and burned and fell to Earth in a ball of flaming wreckage. I think it cost around 20 bucks to make.  The snake is as fake as the apes in Congo, and throughout its big onscreen appearances, makes really strange (and very unsnakelike!) noises, which is distracting, cheap, and fake.  "},{"Title":"Not Good","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This movie could have been OK if they followed the actual lifestyle of, or tried in anyway to replicate a real snake. I, personally, am a snake person so I am naturally looking for mistakes in these sort of movies but come on the least they could do was keep the size of the snake consistent. Also the thing eats about everyday. With a meal the size of a person the snake would be good for months. I am not saying don't see it b/c if you don't know a lot about snakes or you really don't care I guess it would be a good movie. Again one of my biggest problems w/ the film has so far been the facts with the snakes. In some places they don't even keep the species consistent. They use Columbian Boas and call the Green Anacondas ( they look nothing alike). Again if you aren't a snake freak like me or you really could care less about whether they use Columbian Boas and call the Green Anacondas You would maybe like it. "},{"Title":"Now I Know What Truly Awful Can Mean","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" A group of young filmmakers enters the Amazon to film a tribe for an educational film (like National Geographic would). This becomes impossible, but their luck is looking up when they meet a local snake hunter (Jon Voight) and decide filming him might be even more interesting. But the anaconda (at least in this movie) is a creature more ferocious than even Voight can handle...Today I found evidence that Roger Ebert smokes crack cocaine. While usually his opinions are on the mark and I can see where he's coming from even when I differ with him, this time he was hitting the crack pipe. Three and a half stars? And a praising review? For Anaconda? I'm sorry, but you can't pay me enough to find something nice to say about this film. I might say it's so awful it's almost good, but that's not even true. It really is just plain bad.The plot is weak, the pacing is horrible. No music to speak of. Decent scenery. Amateur director (Luis Llosa), and it shows. A cast which boggles my mind. Someone thought a good cast would include Ice Cube (Ghosts of Mars) and Jennifer Lopez (Gigli), not to mention Eric Stoltz (Mask). Owen Wilson would be great comic relief, but he's playing a serious role. Jon Voight has an Oscar on the back of his toilet, why is he in this movie? And is Angelina Jolie going to be as ugly as him in ten years? The other great actor, Danny Trejo, has such a small part I guarantee you won't notice him. Most of these actors can be good in their own films, but together they're a hodge-podge of wasted talent.If the movie is bad, we can rely on the horror movie villain, right? Not this time. The magic snake swims and flies, is an obvious cartoon, and does things to his prey that are either funny or just stupid -- not scary. In one scene, where he appears more like a robot instead of a cartoon, he attacks a robot-like cat that looks like he's an automaton that escaped from Chuck E. Cheese.In the ultimate irony, Jennifer Lopez's character says, This film was supposed to be my big break. Now it's just a big disaster. That really summed up my thoughts on her role. Another character said, The last time I was in water like this I was up all night pulling leeches off my scrotum. Trust me, he enjoyed the leeches more than I enjoyed watching him in this.If you want to watch a movie about anthropology students getting attacked in the rain forest, rent Make Them Die Slowly... plenty of cannibal action and real terror. Don't let your friends trick you into watching horse apples like this film. The only cure for this is intoxication. Not recommended! Do not see! You have been warned! "}{"Title":"Laugh at how bad the snake looks.","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This has to rate as the only film where the CGI creature is more animated than the live actors. And since the CGI snake of the title is so badly animated..... you get the idea?In fact the snake is variously either obvious CGI or obvious rubber. But never believable unless you happen to be a small child watching your first monster movie.John Voight is just horrible in this one. His terrible overacting and ludicrous accent might have been a deliberate attempt to fool the audience into thinking it was someone else, and not Voight, playing the role. Surely he must be ashamed of this performance.Jonathan Hyde is the only spot of light in this movie, playing a token Englishman. Eric Stoltz spends most of the film unconscious, a state which the viewer may come to envy as the film progresses. The rest of the cast are wasted on this movie, though it was nice to see Kari Wuhrer (of Sliders fame) in a big screen role.The only good point is that you can laugh at how bad the snake looks and turn the whole thing into an enjoyable What idiotic thing will they do now? experience. At some points I wondered if the production crew had taken a felt-tip to the celluloid and drawn the snake in.One to watch if you'd had a few beers and fancy a laugh. "},{"Title":"Cheap effects, ridiculous movie","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda is probably the most ridiculous movie I ever watched. The visual effects are poor, and the terrible snake is visibly fake. Besides, the story is tired and one has to be really ignorant (not to say stupid) to believe that the Amazonian jungle is really like that (infested with killer bees, giant snakes and even a lost tribe). Give me a break! To make matters even worse, the villain is absolutely incoherent, and no one can explain why he acts like that. Besides, he seems to be as immortal as Jason is. Summing up, Anaconda is only worth for its involuntary humor, due the incredible amount of nonsense it contains.  "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, awful!","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"   I can't believe that such a film as this could be made so near the advent of the 21st century. No wonder people are terrified of snakes! As a great respecter of snakes, I must point out that the anaconda, the largest & heaviest in its family, is not an evil, man-eating monster with split second reflexes; it's a cold-blooded animal that moves only as fast as it's variable body temperature allows it to. And snakes do not chase humans. They are afraid of us. Films such as Anaconda only increase public animosity toward snakes, which are largely unaggressive creatures that would rather flee from humans than fight us. I urge a boycott of the film Anaconda, and understanding of the real thing. Oh, and one last thing to Jon Voight - you should be very, very ashamed! "},{"Title":"Snakes are a pain!","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" It's not in every movie that John Voight gets to impress us with the size of his snake. And it's not often I make bad jokes like that. I apologize. In fact, when I saw this in the cinema, the audience was in fits of laughter at the very first sight of said beast.A National Geographic film crew travel down river to the deepest depths of the Amazon jungle in search of a mythical tribe of large-breasted naked women, or something. On the way, they pick up a hitchhiker whose boat has been wrecked in a storm. Big mistake! The hitchhiker is Paul Sarone (John Voight, hamming it up so heavy he's almost sponsored by Danish), hell-bent on capturing a 60-foot snake that's lurking in the water.The rest of the crew tries to stand up against him, but his sneer is obviously too scary to fight against. Ice Cube plays the typical homebody from South Central; Jonathan Hyde is the typical English gent; Jennifer Lopez is the typical tough babe; Owen Wilson is a dufus, as always, and Kari Wuhrer - infinitely prettier than Lopez - provides a decent distraction from the hungry reptile.In the tradition of horror-in-the-jungle movies, the victims get knocked off, one by one. Sometimes the anaconda looks real and when it doesn't, the effects are iffy, indeed. The plot works up to a predictable climax, with a big bang, to satisfy the audience.It's hard to believe this film went straight to No. 1 at the US box office. It's simply awful, but has such a hey-ho charm and a who-gives-a-damn attitude that it makes for decent popcorn fare. The script is chockablock full of clichés and most of the laughs are unintentional. But entertainment is entertainment, nevertheless, and Anaconda provides enough of it. How can you refuse a movie that offers a POV shot of inside a snake's belly? How on earth the producer managed to assemble the actors he did, when the characters are no more than snake fodder, is unreal. They're all capable of better things, that's for sure.If giant fakes - I mean, snakes - turn you on, then go for it. Otherwise, beware. This is a Z-movie with a B-movie cast. "},{"Title":"Don't make me out a monster... I didn't eat the Captain Terrible dialogue, terrible film.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda begins with some red scrolling text that reads 'tales of monstrous, man eating Anacondas have been recounted for centuries by tribes-people of the Amazon Basin,some of whom are said to worship these giant snakes. Anacondas are among the most ferocious -and enormous- creatures on Earth, growing, in certain cases, as long as 40 feet. Unique among snakes, they are not satisfied after eating a victim. They will regurgitate their prey in order to kill and eat again.' Documentary filmmaker Terri Flores (Jennifer Lopez) & her boyfriend Professor Steven Cale (Eric Stoltz) decide to make a documentary on an Amazonian tribe called the Shiroshama also known as the 'people of the mist'. Along with a cameraman named Danny Rich (Ice Cube), a sound-man Gary Dixon (Owen Wilson) & his girlfriend Denise Kalberg (Kari Wuhrer) who's a production assistant & an English host Warren Westridge (Jonathan Hyde) to present the documentary they set off in a boat along the Amazon river to reach the tribe. On their travels they come across a sinking boat & a stranded man named Paul Sarone (Jon Voight) who claims to be an ex-Catholic priest but is now a snake hunter (don't ask me how someone would make that sort of career decision!). Things start to go wrong for the expedition when Cale is injured by a wasp (again, don't ask) & ends up critically ill. Sarone says he knows the area & can show them a shortcut so they can get Cale back to civilisation quicker & proper hospital treatment. On the way more bad luck follows as they stop to check a run down houseboat possibly for fuel when Mateo (Vincent Castellanos) their Captain, mysteriously disappears. Eventually Sarone reveals his plans & forces everyone on board to help him capture his ultimate prize, a rare 40+ foot long Anaconda that he feels will be worth millions of Dollars. Tension on board heighten, Sarone lures the Anaconda into the open with some bait but only succeeds in getting Gary killed & eaten. As the crew continue to be reduced in number the survivors begin to question who is hunting who exactly...?Directed by Luis Llosa I throughly disliked Anaconda, where did the $45,000,000 go exactly?! Certainly not on the script by Hans Bauer, Jim Cash & Jack Epps Jr. which is atrocious, it's about as clichéd as you can imagine, it's filled with unlikeable stereotypical characters, it has ridiculous plot devices & coincidences to keep the already thin material going, it's unoriginal & predictable as well as taking itself far too seriously. The whole set up is poor, wouldn't Cale notice a huge poisonous wasp in his scuba mask? I think I would. Why does Sarone want to capture this Anaconda? He is never given sufficient motivation in my opinion especially since he murders people without a second thought to achieve this goal. If Anacondas hunt by heat, which is clearly mentioned during the film, why does the Anaconda go for a dead monkey on a line behind the boat? An hours old dead monkey isn't going to give off any heat while being dragged through the Amazon river, is it? I hated the ending as well. I could probably go on all day... The dialogue is terrible & just doesn't work for me, having said that the performances definitely don't help which are all uniformly awful. Even though she is given very little to do Lopez still manages to mess up & is simply awful. Voight puts in an seriously over-the-top performance, that pony tail, that awful accent & what's that facial expression all about Jon? Ice Cube is about as good an actor as someone named Ice Cube could be, the guys as wooden as the Amozonian rain-forest itself. The only decent actor Eric Stoltz is totally sidelined in bed with an injury for most of the film & is ignored. The character of Westridge is ridiculous too as he constantly plays golf on the boat, he must have an infinite supply of golf balls somewhere. Even if it is another example of the poorly written dialogue I did like his line the last time I was in water like this I was up all night picking leeches off my scrotum though. The special effects on the Anaconda itself are mixed indeed. Some of the CGI shots look awful, as do some of the animatronic ones. While others look alright, as I said their a mixed bag. Forget about any gore as there isn't any apart from a quick throat operation involving a knife & empty pen. Generally speaking most of the Brazillian locations look nice & it has decent production values throughout even if there are various mistakes like the famous waterfall goof which is embarrassing to watch as is the changing pick-axe/axe sequence at the end where Danny kills the Anaconda. There is a really cool shot where the Anaconda opens it's mouth in preparation to swallow someone & the camera is placed in the back of it's throat looking out of it's mouth as it stretches open & few shots of the thrashing, burning still alive Anaconda at the end looks quite good as well, but that just isn't enough to save Anaconda from being a blatant & terrible Jaws (1975) rip-off with a large snake instead of a large shark. Anaconda sucks on all fronts, simple as that. There isn't anything I can recommend about Anaconda & I will let the ever awful Jennifer Lopez's (Anaconda was one of her first starring roles) character Terri have the final word this film was supposed to be my big break... but it's turned out to be a big disaster - never a truer word spoken! "},{"Title":"Totally unrealistic garbage","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This is the worst movie I've ever seen! Not only is it mindless action without a good story, it also portraits an animal not many people know anything about as being a super killer, with a lust for human flesh! My only recommendation is that if you have not seen this movie then spare yourself! If you have, I am sure you agree with me that it is NOT worth watching! "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Considering the fact that Jennifer Lopez doesn't look sexy in her role as Terry I have to say that there is nothing good about this movie, apart from the setting - the Amazon river is really beautiful and quite well photographed.Everything else is stupid Jon Voight's unconvincing acting, Jonathan Hyde's semi-funny character, the plot itself and the screenplay that gives the actors no other opportunity than screaming and being really scared. And what does rapper Ice Cube do in a horror film?Watch Jurassic Park. "},{"Title":"Hello!!!","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Hello! This is my review for the popular horrible movie called Anaconda. Anaconda is a popular horrible movie that concerns very angry snake. Maybe it will remind of Steven Spielberg's popular feature presentation JAWS, although that was shark rather than serpent ha-ha. In this motion picture you will have many shocks and suspense. It is very surprising when snake pops out!!! Be sure not to watch this with your dog, maybe it is a dumb dog and will want to chasing the snake ha-ha.Some interesting trivia about snake, for your enjoyment - Snake is not a rope. However, it is like an angry rope.- Snake does not have legs.!! So how does it walk??? Snake is full of mysteries... "},{"Title":"Hard to take it serious when the snake looks like a giant puppet","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" It's suffice to say that when Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube and Owen Wilson are amongst the lead cast in a film about a giant snake in the Amazon that it is not going to be much good. And indeed IT isn't; and despite Jon Voight and Eric Stoltz also being amongst the cast in this $45,000,000 production it is a very embarrassing project to be part of. The film has been followed by three sequels to date.A National Geographic crew travel into the heart of the Amazon to shoot a documentary on the long-lost tribe reported to be somewhere along the banks of the immense river. Cannibal Holocaust it is not, I'm afraid. Director Terri Flores (Jennifer Lopez) and her anthropologist boyfriend (Eric Stoltz) lead the team. Not long into their voyage they rescue a stranded Paraguayan snake hunter named Paul (Jon Voight). In return, he offers to help them find the lost tribe they are looking for, claiming to have met them. But his true plans unfold when he takes over the boat and forces the crew to aid him in his manic quest to track down a record-breaking Giant Anaconda. And it descends into a typical hunters-become-the-hunted scenario henceforth.For the first half an hour at least, Anaconda is somewhat enjoyable. But after that it quickly descends into mediocrity. One must ask the question as to where exactly the $45 million went, because it was certainly not invested in to the special effects department, that's for sure. The Anaconda looks ridiculous. I've seen monsters on the ludicrous Syfy channel films from the last ten years with lower budgets than this managing to turn out better looking monsters. Albeit, just slightly. And I know it was the year 1997, but come on now people, it wasn't that long ago and there was some superb CGI around that time and even before it. Anaconda is just a very poorly made film. The acting is diabolical... horrendous (Although in saying that Voight's performance was somewhat interesting). The script resembles something written on a rainy afternoon in after-school study by two bored kids. With dialogue as ingenious as this Is it just me or does the jungle make you really, really horny? that one was courtesy of our man Owen Wilson. And Ice Cube has to get his two cents worth in there too - That's it, man, I'm getting' the hell back to LA. But Owen Wilson delivers yet again and takes the cake - You don't know sh*t about the sh*t we're in out here! Genius.As an adventure film it's oh-so-typical but I suppose it does deliver the trills required for the genre. As a horror movie, it's just too cheap and flamboyant to be anything scary or unsettling. Indeed, the snake may devour someone whole in the film but its more comical than it is disturbing. The snake resembles a giant puppet, and in some scenes I could have sworn I could make-out the wires or whatever they were bobbing it up and down in the water or springing it out of the water like a jack-in-the-box. "},{"Title":"I am sorry to say this, but it's hiss-terical!","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" The standard monster formula with a huge snake. This is, however, a realistic monster (a la Jaws) in that it is a real creature - an Anaconda, the largest snake in the world. Naturally, as with most films of this sort, the term realistic is taken very lightly. Sure, it is true that anacondas are large and strong and a human would have no chance of winning a fight with one. However, it is also true that anacondas are not bullet-proof and are susceptible to burns, especially if they cover over 90% of their body. So it is a little odd to see the titular creature take so much abuse from such defensive prey (a team of researchers) and still be hellbent on hunting it. There is a whole jungle out there teeming with delicious little things to hunt down. In fact, there is a scene early on where the anaconda hunts down a jaguar, a substantial meal, yet that doesn't seem to satisfy its appetite.Now, I know this is just a movie and there is some background information given on the nature of anacondas, but it sounds more like an excuse to make the viciousness of the snake seem more plausible. In fact, since the snake antics are so over done most viewers will be calmly assured that this is just a movie and the film never taps into any real fear like Jaws did, where the most outrageous chasing and action was saved for the end. Here, the snake is revealed in full about halfway through and the film loses its suspense. Which is disappointing in a monster movie where the heroes are stalked by a creature that can travel on land, water, and even get onto their boat.On the flip side, there are a few good things about the film. The special effects are dated and the all CGI snake is blatantly obvious sometimes, however the moving shots with independently moving CGI within them, a standard play illusion nowadays, was new then and geeks like me will be slightly amused by such little things! --- 4/10BsCDb Classification 13+ --- violence/terrorPS ***SPOILER*** Also, something that I have yet to determine whether it is hilarious or horrifying, but the puking out of Jon Voigt by the demonic title snake is a sight to behold. "}{"Title":"You know if you pretend you know what's going on, this is actually pretty exciting","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" Anaconda, Anaconda, what can you say? Bad CGI effects, bad acting, and a stupid plot. I mean the movie isn't so bad, I've seen plenty worse. But this movie seemed to loose something. I had a very open mind to it, but it was so predictable. I'm serious! You know who's going to die, you know what is going to happen, and you just want to scream at these stupid characters. I wouldn't really recommend this movie, because it is very predictable. But some people may enjoy that. That and Jennifer Lopez. I'm not sure why, her booty doesn't seem that big. D Over all, not horrible, but not the greatest movie. But, I'm going to be nice.3/10 Trust me! That's nice! "},{"Title":"Oh no...","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Bad, really bad. The actors/actresses played their roles in quite a lousy way. The snakes were so big and clearly done by computers that they were not even scary and the fact that they even seemed to fly in one point took the rest of the credibility. The swallowed man inside the  anaconda was just tasteless. "},{"Title":"Sssssssssssss!","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  A 2-ton stinker of a movie, only worth watching to see Jon Voight getting his paycheck for attempting a heavy Spanish accent as the Paraguayan(!) snake hunter, Sarone. The snake is TOO computer-generated to be very scary, but the acting is certainly frightening!  I will give 4/5 stars to JLo's ample derriere, though. I don't think the anaconda could have swallowed her. "},{"Title":"Intense and Enjoyable","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  This film was a pretty good movie.At times the snake did look fake,but it made the movie even more intense.I liked Jennifer Lopez in it.She acted really good in some parts.Yet,in other parts,they made her look like a person who didn't know how to act.Ice Cube was also good in it too.He played his role seriously.Anyway,this movie is a great movie to rent or buy,but if you don't like snakes.Rent something else.*** out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Good, solid movie of its genre","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I actually went to watch this one when it was running on the theaters. I never expected miracles from it and I never got 'em but nevertheless this a solid movie of its genre in good and bad. All the dozens of clichés are in the right places and film doesn't surprise even once but when the used but well-designed formula works, it works. Jon Voight's intensive, furious performance saves a lot. He makes the computer snake look like a harmless worm. Of course snakes are certainly never as huge as the movie suggests and even anacondas don't eat grown-up men but I guess this was supposed to be horror flick - not a scientifically accurate nature film. If you don't care about the fact that this is just about the millionth Jaws rip-off then I guess you might even enjoy Anaconda. I don't find it all that bad. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The only major problem with this film, is that it is a total bore up until the last half hour or so. Other than that, its a decent monster flick. Jon Voight was a bad guy, but it was more interesting to watch him than any of the other characters. Hmmm, what's wrong with this picture? 2/4 "},{"Title":"Terrible movie","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" I have to disagree with Squill's review. I'm not even sure we saw the same movie. The acting was terrible. J Lo and Ice Cube? Give me a break. Even Jon Voight who has done some good work in the past must have really needed the money to do this flick. Squill talked about the horror movies of the past. Well as you can see from my user name which contains the year I was born, I too grew up with all those grade B horror movies. I don't understand Squill's comparison of those to this movie. I thought that the puppetry used to do the snake was the only saving grace (if there has to be any) that this movie had. Those old movies had poor animation and horrible makeup. But that's all they had to work with in those days. I wouldn't make any comparison between those movies and this one on any basis let alone those that Squill pointed out. Don't take this personally Squill. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. I just can't agree with your comments. Nor do you have to agree with mine. We're apparently in the same age group but with diametrically opposed views.I often wonder why half of the movies produced today were even approved by the moguls who run the studios. (Do they still have moguls?) There is some terrible crap being shown for which the audiences are being price gouged.I remain anonymous as I do at all internet sites of this type. So shoot me. "},{"Title":"After i seen Reptilius and Godzilla i stopped see monster-movies!","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" A Documentary Team, a Hunter and one big unrealistic snake can only be a bad movie. Why J-LO and Ice Cube in a boring movie like this? Why just Michael Jackson and Nelson Mandela in this movie.The Scenes is bad, The Plot sucks.The actors is just bad playingThe snake is not a realistic reptile and Anacondas are not fastThis movie is a movie for monster nerds!Why snakes in the this bad movie?This movie is not a scary monster movie. It's a King Kong Reptile 1 and if you see this movie you will not see monster-movies.Why also put great actors like Owen Wilson, Jon Voight and Jonathan Hyde is this stupid and very bad movie? I can just say i have never see such a boring and stupid movie like this since Zoolander "},{"Title":"Anaconda is the #1...","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" ...worst movie of all time.  I doubt anyone could ever make a worse flick. I just don't think it is possible.  I wanted to give it a vote of 0.01, but unfortunately that was not a choice given by IMDb.The movie should be used to teach film makers how NOT to make a film.National Geographic should have sued to have any reference to their excellent organization/publication forever removed from this waste of film. If only Marty McFly could drive back in time and prevent the making of this cinematic disaster.In fact Anaconda was the first time I went to the movies and enjoyed the commercials and trailers MORE than the feature.The only reason I saw this when it came out was that a friend convinced a small group of us to see it, since the original movie we went to see was sold out.  Needless to say, I don't trust his movie endorsements anymore. "},{"Title":"Jon Voight, what were you thinking?","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  I can only hope that Jon Voight had a really good reason for making this movie, like he desperately needed the money or owed somebody a favour.This movie was brutally bad. Although some of the special effects were quite good, the computer animation scenes of the snake were a parody.  This movie was so bad, so predictable, and so boring, I want two hours of my life back. "}{"Title":"A stunning screwball comedy... of errors","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The worst special effects, story line and acting in a movie. The wild boar (clearly a stuffed pig and not a very good job of taxidermy at that) scene and the scene of the hatching (no egg remnants) were laughable. The CGI was horrible, and the snake was completely unrealistic.If I didn't know better, I'd swear they were trying to make a screwball comedy with this flick. Jennifer Lopez's worst movie, not that she has made any great ones to date, but this has got to be worse than Gigli. The story has so many plot holes that you lose count by the halfway point. The special effects are not even worthy of Gilligan's Island. Jon Voight should be ashamed that he ever appeared in this turkey. "},{"Title":"Pass...","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" This definitely is one of, if not, the worst films of the decade. From the cast of actors being poorly used in such cliché roles, to the snake itself, there is not one redeeming quality Anaconda possesses.The acting is very wooden and stiff -- though this is what should be expected from an Ice Cube and Jennifer Lopez movie. The music is lame and worthy of being tossed off a bridge. As far as a monster movie goes, this is no where near the guilty pleasure status of the cheese that was produced in the 30's to late 60's; the Anaconda is wretched looking, and its use in the film is totally underplayed. To anyone looking for a decent ending, keep searching, because there's none to be found.All in all, the films the Sci-Fi Channel produces and airs is worth your time and not this. Even for a giant snake movie, there's no enjoyment to be had from Anaconda, and I highly recommend you pass on this trash. "},{"Title":"What a stinker","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":" My brother and I went to go watch this film when it originally came out. Within the first 10 minutes we thought it was gonna be crap, and it really was. the acting was wooden, the effects were rubbish, the plot was so clichéd and it bored us senseless! I really cannot understand why there is a second anaconda film out now. I certainly will not be watching it. I wish the giant snake had eaten all of the characters up and finished this horrendous mess of a film! Unfortunately I cannot give it a minus rating. I do not recommend this film to anyone who wants to enjoy an action adventure type film. There really isn't much I can say about this film. "},{"Title":"AN AWESOME MOVIE...!!!","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Anaconda is great...!!! I just love Jennifer Lopez coming out in this movie...!!! Haters please get the hell out of here...!!! Anaconda is one of J.Lo's bezt moviez...!!! Starting with Selena(1997) to Anaconda(1997) and The Cell(2000). I just love J.Lo...!!! This movie wouldnt be cool if J.Lo wouldnt come out...!!! IM SERIOUS...!!! well, good byee...!!! "},{"Title":"beurk","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  i give 2 because the made-with-paper anaconda of 50 feet was really funny. For all the other things in the movie, see in the trash... Happily, i didn't spend more than 2 bucks to see it. I've lost my nerves giving 6 dolls to this ... thing. "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Trash, trash, trash... What Eric Stoltz and the other guys (specially Jon Voight) doing on this terrible work? And the snake... and the black panther... Fake, fake, fake...This movie is a enormous mistake and don´t have funny at least. "},{"Title":"No redeeming value","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  The intention might have been to recreate a 1940's B-film, right downto the long obsolete view that the jungle destroys men - now we knowit's vice-versa. But it is such a BAD film, it hurts to watch. WasJonathan Hyde trying to be funny? I'm not sure. And if Jennifer Lopezwas trying to be sexy, she failed. Jon Voight wasn't trying anything,I'm sure of that. The photography could have been great, if they hadused the jungle at its best, but they seemed to prefer scary moviescliches. Those images of something big moving under murky water,characters filmed from a crack in the woods while looking over theirshoulders, etc, look like they were done by a ten year old boy withhis big brother's camcorder.Given the theme and the plot, it would be hard to make a good film.With some good acting and direction, maybe it could have been atongue-in-cheek parody of a horror film, but in this case it justdidn't work. My advice is keep away, there's nothing worth watchinghere.  "},{"Title":"Horrible... simply horrible","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  -SPOILERS-This is the only movie I have ever seen in which a huge snake SCREAMS as it burns. Then it falls into a river, only to emerge later STILL ON FIRE. This one just didn't have it. I didn't find it enjoyable on any level, be it comedy, drama, horror, or action. The computer graphics were not quite advanced enough in 1997 for the big snake eating people horror movie(s). They would have been better off waiting a few years for the technology to catch up before making it. That still wouldn't have saved the movie, though.  "},{"Title":"So it's true - Jennifer Lopez really can't act!","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  A friend of mine told me to see this movie, knowing that I enjoy horror / monster type movies as a way to relax from the stresses of the real world.  Until I waste my time watching what amounts to a poor excuse of putting a number of idiots with the combine IQ of a turnip on some boat heading down the Amazon River not knowing where they are going and trusting some character (John Voight, who should have known better) who comes from the mist.  Did anyone bother to ask how he got there?  Or how the lethal bee got into Eric Stoltz's character's diving gear?  And the list goes on...But that aside, I have not seen acting this bad since a couple of friends and I sat down one Saturday night to muddle through Battlefield Earth.  And it is true - Jennifer Lopez cannot act - much of what she did, or at least attempted to do, was strained at best.  And since when is it written that successful rappers actually make talented and successful actors and actresses?  Ice Cube's facial expression and voice modulation did not change through most of the movie.  I suppose that it would have been more interesting if he had broken out into song just to get the storyline moving.  To me, the sign of a bad movie is when you, as the viewer, start cheering for the bad guy to win.  A good example of this is the Phantom Menace - I was so hoping that Darth Maul would exterminate them all!  In this movie, I was hoping the snake would end it all, but in the end, the entire premise sank.  Avoid this movie... "},{"Title":"a real bomb","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  Propably Voigt's worst film, after making classics like The Odessa File and The Midnight Cowboy why on earth did he agree to make a silly substitute for a horror movie like this?The whole plot is a real masterpiece of cliché.I give it 1/10. "}{"Title":"As stupid as movies nowadays come, with phony special effects are overacted characters. *1/2 (out of four)","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror","Review":"  ANACONDA / (1997) *1/2 (out of four)	Anaconda is a ludicrous, ridiculous, disposable horror thriller; it is the type of movie in which the concepts contain potential and inhabit an adventurous atmosphere, believably crafted set designs, and special effects that are morally effective, but the plot self-destructs in epidemically undistinguished peril. Louis Llosa's monster romp contains a very good setup, but efficiently obscures itself as it progresses.	The story begins by introducing a formidable reason for its shallow characters to seek a dramatic premise. The film stars Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube as Terri Flores and Danny Rich who, along with their crew (Jonathan  Hyde, Owen Wilson, Eric Stoltz, Kari Wuhrer and Vincent Castellanos), set out on a small boat to tour the Amazon in order to film a documentary detailing an ancient Indian tribe. Along the way they encounter a creepy snake trapper (Jon Voight) who is obsessed with catching a thirty foot anaconda and forces the boat out of its course. 	The story is about as obvious as they come. We meet a variety of characters who will surely be picked off one by one by the monstrous creature. Audiences have seen this material many times before, but it still can be successful if constructed with the proper conditions. The problem is the characters are as gullible and mechanical as puppets because they blandly submit to the movie's many predictable circumstances. They spend most of their time running from the anaconda as if there is a fire between their legs. 	The performances are just as campy and recycled as the rest of the movie's lame concoctions. Jon Voight creates one of the most exaggerated and overacted characters in film history; it is incomprehensible of how poorly he acts here. Ice Cube and Jennifer Lopez form no chemistry or charisma between themselves. Supporting performers including Jonathan Hyde, Eric Stoltz, Owen Wilson, Kari Wuhrer, and Vincent Castellanos lack character definning.Anaconda is as dumb as movies nowadays come. While the production begins with a mysterious, sneaky story, the phoniness of the giant snake destroys its only hope of producing fright in an audience. Throughout this movie I felt nothing for the characters, almost developing a more wholesome relationship with the reptile antagonist; it is hard to respect a movie when, in the end, after all the chaos and destruction it caused, I felt sorry for the snake's suffering.						 "}]