[{"Title":"A flawed work but definately worth a look.","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's no doubt Julie Christie was one of the most unique personalities of the late sixties and early seventies.  A remote beauty who was sexy and charming in Billy Liar and Darling, haunting  and enigmatic in Don't Look Now and McCabe and Mrs. Miller and one of the few things worth remembering about Doctor Zhivago.  Her notorious pickiness when it comes  to choosing roles has served her well and she is one of the few stars from that time who has moved quite gracefully through a film career.  Her resources as an actress allow the character of Phyllis Mann to come alive in a way that few could accomplish and the magic she creates is unforgetable.  Laid back hipster Alan Rudolph's sexual roundelay has a lush look on top and a jazzy score below but it's Christie who sears the visuals with sadness, mystery, and wit.  Nick Nolte's rugged charm serves him well throughout and when these two are alone together on screen, the art of film acting is proudly displayed.  Watch the scene when a drunken Phyllis tries to rekindle their physical relationship and notice the body language.   Note to filmmakers Rudolph's genius is knowing when not to move the camera and in trusting his actors to do the work.The film seems ponderous and flat at first and Johnny Lee Miller and Lara Flynn Boyle are still learning their craft (their scenes do grate), but Afterglow is a cockeyed success for those with patience.  "},{"Title":"Julie's the whole show","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have extremely mixed feelings about this film.  On the one hand, I have only praise for Alan Rudolph for writing a great character for Julie Christie to play and giving her a role she could truly sink her teeth in and prove again what a sensational actress she is.  And yet - the film that has been built around her is an almost total dud.  I found the plot lame, and Lara Flynn Boyle and Jonny Lee Miller execrable. But when Nick Nolte and especially Julie Christie are on screen, all is forgiven.  They're great together, but it's Christie's film all the way.  She is such a rarity - an actress who combines genuine Movie Star Glamour, the real deal, with a thoroughly modern sensibility.  I could go on gushing, but let me just say that she is sublime and this film gives us an all too rare opportunity to see her in full glory, albeit in a vehicle that's less than worthy of her. "},{"Title":"an elegant film","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The writer/ director Alan Rudolph clearly understands the beauty of woman. The combination of Julie Christie and Lara Flynn Boyle is beautifully juxtaposed.  Nick Nolte provides the rough male energy that highlights the facets of the younger / older woman beauty esthetic.  The screenplay provided excellent scenes and the camera work and lighting was top notch. My only disappointment was that I did not see this gem on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"turn down the words...  listen to the music...  watch the pictures.","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a great story (even annoying at times), but a great film. Beautifully photographed by Kurita, with more than a few truly mesmerizing enchanting moments. Many of those scenes capture the essence of nonchalance which Julie Christie has perfected (or reveals of herself). Her magical detached, casual, indifference thru Kurita's lens is the power and soul of Afterglow.  "},{"Title":"Human beings and their faults in relationships with coincidences?","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The lives of a has-been-actress, a charming sleazy plumber, a bored housewife and a stressed corporate head intertwined in this low key screwball. If made by studio heads this film would have been hard to swallow, but when handled by the maestro, Alan Rudolph, and starring real actors, it works a treat.  "},{"Title":"What, not enough gunplay?","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Afterglow is one of the best films of 1997.  Julie Christie has been away too long.  With the exception of her role as Gertrude in the 1996 version of Hamlet, I can't recall such a performance in years, and she radiates pure magic in this one.  Nick Nolte is always at his best in the smaller, independent films and his portrayal in Afterglow is nothing short of brilliant.  So, why isn't it available on laserdisc or DVD?   "},{"Title":"The Only Film I've Ever Walked Out On","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dreadful puns. Unbearable middle-class, underwritten archness. Acting, script that jars even more mercilessly once you realize they're not elements of an avant-garde distanciation strategy. Probably the only film I've ever seen that elicited sheer untrammeled loathing at every moment of viewing, usually bad films only evoke a mild bemusement and wondering when it'll be over, an expectation that it may improve. Compare with meeting someone who fills you with such futility and tedium after the first few words of conversation that you just walk away from them with no excuses or explanations. This film is that person.tedious, irritating schlock.A pristine 'chamber piece' of fatuous complacency. The 1st 20 min came with such an undertow of nauseous inertia, life flashing before eyes, etc, that didn't stick with it. Maybe should watch it again? Do they all get blown up in the end? "},{"Title":"Made no sense","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I only give it a 2 instead of a 1 because Julie Christie is always such a joy to watch.The problem is, you can't figure out what is going on much of the time. Plot lines seem to make no sense. Example at the end, Christie is crying. Has her daughter died or not? That is never made clear. If not, what is she sobbing about? Then there is the scene where Christie tries to seduce husband Nolte. She is attempting to repair their marriage. It is not clear why he rejects her, he seems to love her and it was she who had called off their sex life, not he. There is no discussion of this event afterward to clarify things.Characters throughout behave in ways that seem very unlikely and you can't figure them out. If a movie is going to be this surreal and confusing, it should be funny or suspenseful. This is neither. The Jonny Lee Miller character is peculiar beyond belief and that is never resolved. You can't figure him out at all,even at the end.Enough said, avoid this movie. You can see Christie in Away from Her, a far superior film. "},{"Title":"Great to see Julie Christie, at least","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like Alan Rudolph movies.  I always thought of him as Robert Altman Lite. When I saw Welcome to L.A. in 1902 (I am exaggerating, but barely), I loved it and it seemed very Altman-like, and even starred some of the Altman-ettes like Geraldine Chaplin and Sissy Spacek.  Most of the people were unhappy and if I'm not mistaken, Chaplin spends the whole movie in taxi cabs, taking pictures of the corners of buildings. When I saw Choose Me years later, it had a breezy, jazzy feel to it that I loved.  It was about people in love, unlucky in love, wanting more love, wanting love from someone else, etc. Afterglow is a little like both of these movies.  It has its jazz soundtrack intact and the people are miserable. In a nutshell, Julie and Nick haven't had a decent moment together since before they can remember.  Lara and Johnny Lee are much younger but also accumulating many bad moments.  Secrets are revealed. Both couples switch mates.  They are not that much happier.  Both find out about the other.  That's it. Nolte and Julie Christie have some good scenes together, but she has much more chemistry with Johnny Lee Miller, who gives the best performance in the movie by a mile.  He nails his role as a yuppie/scumbag perfectly.The whole thing is way too long.  There are unnecessary scenes galore.  If it were not for Julie Christie, I would have lasted 20 minutes w/this one.  5/10. "},{"Title":"More like a bad after taste than an after glow.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You're the most fascinating woman I've ever met, he tells her after knowing her for about five minutes. Perhaps that will give you a sense of the sophomoric nature of Afterglow; a film which tells of two neurotic married couples, one middle aged (Nolte/Christie) and one younger (Boyle/Miller), and their respective interwoven  infidelities. With a solid core cast and good technical and artistic capabilities and an interesting premise, Afterglow should have offered more than characters we're not given to care about even if we could suspend disbelief long enough to care. Nonetheless, there's enough going for this mediocre drama to make it a worthwhile small screen watch for sofa spuds with an appetite for the subject. "}{"Title":"Porn for the toupee crowd","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy, how does a turkey like this get made? Don't people get embarrassed any more? Actually the sets are fabulous, the apartment where the young couple lives is breathtaking _ too bad the actors have to be in the way so much. But the rest of it, the tired lines, the off-the-wall performances are sooooo pathetic. What is it with directors casting Nick Nolte as the big macho seducer? He looks like an old bag of gravel. His hair in this is a riot draws all your attention when he's on the screen. But I do get it he's playing the part that Kris Kristofferson used to play in Alan Rudolph pics. HEY, GOOD CASTING!!! "},{"Title":"Lower than awful","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let's look at this straight in the eyes there are good sides to this pic. You get to see Julie Christie in a recent film, you get to see Montréal as an imaginary place. You get to see Nick Nolte. Now The bad news this film is rotten, unlikely, pretentious and boring. Very boring. "},{"Title":"Unhappy people with lots of secrets","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two couples one young, another older.  The younger male is a cold fish (some hint of his being a repressed homosexual - the gay friend coming out, etc.); she is a flighty wife (bad acting by Ms. Boyle).  Obtuse frigid Christie, and studly Nolte.  All this mess spoiled by bits of slapstick which jerk the viewer about.  Also some speeded up scenes which come out of left field.  And completely unintelligible ending.  Without being a spoiler - no idea of what the person in the final scene was doing.  Not even clear as to who it was, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Just plain fun","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie and very thoroughly enjoyed it.  No, it was not realistic, no, it was not stellar acting, or serious story.  It was exactly what it bills itself to be, a romance-comedy.  This movie is good escapism.  If you need a smile, or just to sit back and relax without getting all overly engrossed in a movie, this is a good one to pick. "},{"Title":"Rudolph not at his best, but good enough","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Calling Alan Rudolph an acquired taste is like calling CASABLANCA just a WWII film; it doesn't even begin to tell the story.  I happen to like his films when they don't star Keith Carradine (whom I don't like), but can see why others don't.  In a Rudolph film, plot is less important than mood and texture, and there really isn't much of a plot in this film, it's pretty much all mood and texture.  The dialogue he writes is also right out of the 30's and 40's (a friend once said Rudolph films are what would happen in Bogart ended up in a Fred Astaire movie).In this movie, the dialogue sometimes falls flat, and some of the tone shifts are jarring.  In addition, Miller's character is a complete lout; we hardly understand why Boyle, let alone Christie, would even bother with him.  And Boyle had a character to play in Rudolph's EQUINOX, but here, she just flails around.Nevertheless, this is a good movie, and that's partly because of the romantic pull Rudolph does achieve, and because of the performances of Nick Nolte and Julie Christie.  Although both of them are playing characters past their prime, Rudolph films them like old movie stars would be filmed, and matches his tempo to their performances, which are relaxed and confident (which contrasts to Boyle and Miller, whose discomfort is obvious). Critics up here noted this was one of the few, if not the only, U.S. films filmed in Canada (Montreal) that actually took place there. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable offbeat comedy","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julie Christie is magnificent as Phyl Mann, wife of Nick Nolte's Lucky Fix-it Mann.  Age has not been kind to the couple until they find an odd path to revitalization.  Nick Nolte makes the offbeat casting work, and Charlotte Rampling has a magnificent supporting role. "},{"Title":"One Time","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  what is this movie all about? The need for love. The ending is not completly managable but it has just the right tone to give you the right mood. The storytelling is weak, though. Jullie and Nick DO look great together and give some strong appearances throughout the movie. Worth seeing? once, only once. "},{"Title":"A phenomenal gem","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Afterglow is a wonderful movie.  Helped by superb acting, a fine story and a great director.  Julie Christie is dazzling and should've received the Academy Award for Best Actress.  Her performance is also helped by the performances of Nick Nolte, and Johnny Lee Miller.  This drama does a wonderful job of exploring the intricacies of damaged relationships.  Although the film's running time is nearly two hours, it feels nothing like it. It moves so fluidly and the storyline never falters.  Afterglow is a wonderful little gem that everyone should see  "},{"Title":"Julie Christie is great, LFB is rotten, well-lensed, poorly penned...","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *** Caution --- Contains spoilers *** This film had potential; the beautiful and talented Julie Christie and the not-so-beautiful but talented Nick Nolte as husband and wife in a sexless marriage, where the partners have agreed that handyman Lucky (Nolte) can have no-strings-attached affairs (as if such a thing is possible). Jonny Lee Miller and Laura Flynn Boyle play the younger couple with a similar loveless/sexless (?) relationship. They are both easy on the eyes, but their acting talents pale in comparison to their looks and to the talents of Christie and Nolte.Amazingly, these two couples end up with each others' spouses when they decide to have an affair. I mean, what are the odds of that? (That's sarcasm, in case it's not clear from my tone of voice, ha-ha&#133;) There is a subplot with a coworker of the Miller character coming out of the closet, with the implication that the husband might be a repressed homosexual. There's a nice scene where the coworker comes to tell Miller that he is leaving the company. As he leaves the hotel through the revolving door, Phyllis (Christie) arrives in the next section of the door, making a visual metaphor to swinging both ways (Sorry, I couldn't resist.).Jonny Lee Miller impressed me with his acting ability here, compared to some of his earlier films, say Hackers, for example. However, I can't help but think how a few casting changes might have improved this movie. Peter Sarsgaard for Miller, and Kris Kristofferson for Nolte. LFB is easily the worst actor in this movie; almost anyone would be an improvement. She may improve with age or experience, but she was miscast in this movie.I enjoyed many of the visual elements of this movie. Christie and Nolte are talented and give good performances here; Christie, Miller, and LFB are easy on the eyes, as are the apartment sets, and some of the outdoor scenes. The movie as a whole, however, demands far too much willing suspension of disbelief, even if you take it as a fantasy. There are better ways to spend your money; but, if you are sitting at home with nothing to do some day and this movie comes to cable, you might give it a try. That's what I did. Not sorry I saw it, but it's not worth seeing again, or buying the DVD, or seeing it in a theater. It's just OK - 4/10 stars.-- Gray Thomas, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA "},{"Title":"A wonderful, engaging film!","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   This gem of a movie is a beautiful, sensual, thoughtful film that should be studied by anyone interested in screenwriting.As with many of the Alan Rudolph films I've seen, 'Afterglow' seems to take place in an unworldly area of the human psyche that is both comforting and enlightening. 'Afterglow,' to me, is  like a rich, fragrant cup of coffee on a blustery, cold day.If you've viewed Rudolph's previous films, such as 'Choose Me,' 'Mrs Parker,' 'Trouble in Mind,' and 'Made in Heaven' you already know you're in for a one-of- a-kind treat. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"Enjoyable with a few exceptions, a worthy rent","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie.  I suppose that I had the problem of NickNolte and his funny-looking, scruffy macho self, but it fit thecharacter.  My favorite character was the sexually modest andcompletely cold executive Jeffrey Byron played by Jonny Lee Miller,fresh from Trainspotting.  When he slightly slips his accent, it isreally fun to hear.  Since it takes place in Canada though, it isawesome that he particularly lets it out on words like about - ay- boat.   Slight Spoiler.... Even though the character was mean, cold, and he was the onethat provoked his wife into the main problem in the movie early on,I felt as if he was almost the protagonist.  The setting of Montrealwas beautiful, the cinematography varying between lush andclassy, and the characters very well thought-out.  The Phyllis Manncharacter was entertaining.  And Jeffrey's wife Marianne was funny,but you almost hate her for the way she goes in this movie... This movie would have been much better without Nick Nolte - hisfacial expressions were just perfect, but his presence can becontinuously irritating.  He'll also turn off half of the ladies watchingthis.  Considering that it's themes are wonderful for a femaleaudience, that's bad.  But does the movie want you to hate himanyway?  Oh well.  8 out of 10 in my point of view - deducting onepoint for Nolte and one point for the overusage of adultery in theplot.  If you aren't into romance-drama plots and character studies,avoid this one.  If you like Nick Nolte, grab it.  If you don't, you mighthave to stomach him.  A worthy rent. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie was a piece of intelligence and fun. But, in reality, this movie is just a long, long long movie who is really boring.Boyle is really bad, in an overexcited wife's character. She's gap of subtility. Miller and Nolte are really average. But Christie are excellent !!!!The script is stupid and boring. For the direction, is repetitive.Really boring, avoid it please !!! "},{"Title":"Thank God for Fast Forward","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How did this movie get rated 6.9 out of 10?  Was Nick Nolte stuffing the ballot box? I agree with all who said it was boring and pretentious, but disagree that Julie Christie did much to help it. "},{"Title":"Not worth the time or money.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is boring and pointless. Lara Flynn Boyle was dumber than a stick, Nick Nolte wasn't remotely attractive and Johnny Lee Miller should have fallen off of a much much bigger bridge. Yes, Julie Christie did a good job, but it couldn't save the movie. I was left feeling completely unaffected and slightly annoyed that I'd wasted two hours.  "},{"Title":"Profound, humorless, pretentious, boring waste of time and money.","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this is the US film industry answer to nouvelle-vague and Alain Tanner, I'd rather be in Switzerland. Beside, The apartment building Habitat 67 and the apartment don't fit. Furthermore, what has a punk such as Johnny Lee Miller got to do with that job. He never seems to work and anyways looks too disturbed to do anything but walk on the roof. Next what are the chances of him having an affair with his wife's lover' wife slim, right? What's that thing about Christie and Nolte's estranged daughter. I did not get it. The only hint of humor is when Miller jumps or falls off a bridge and beaks a leg. Get it? "},{"Title":"skip the film, buy the soundtrack","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I bought the Afterglow soundtrack prior to hearing it, and to seeing the movie, because it is composed by Mark Isham and performed by Charles Lloyd -- two underheralded greats of modern music. I still congratulate myself on that purchase; this soundtrack is one of the best ever. The movie, on the other hand, was a *HUGE* disappointment. What was Alan Rudolph thinking?? The stilted dialogue, the muddled story-line, the confused editing, the glacial pace... and that ending! What was *that* about??  Do yourself a favour go directly to the best part of the film and buy the soundtrack album. In the liner notes, Alan Rudolph wrote Like the glow which remains after a source of light is gone, this music is guaranteed to illuminate any place in your heart where love has been.  Amen to that.    "},{"Title":"A film destroyed by technique","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is destroyed by the screenwriter's inability to finish off any of the main storylines. This movie is destroyed by the director's unwillingness to trust the actors with actual characterization. This movie is destroyed by the cast, who seem to have no idea what their characters are supposed to be doing or feeling at any given moment.The actors say all their lines as if they are great quotes. ALL of them. ALL THE TIME. I'm up for a mood piece every now and then, but you have to maintain the mood. At least with the altered film-speed sequences in A Clockwork Orange, you've been prepared to expect some quirkiness of technique. Here, it just looks terribly silly (as does the last ten minutes).The director might as well have put the camera in front of an aquarium full of horny cuttlefish. You get about two and a half minutes worth of entertainment before it all starts to look the same. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen with such good actors","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For totally phony dialog and unlikely situations, this movie has few peers. I hated it from the first word to the last - not the last word in the movie, just the last one I could stand to listen to. The characters were completely unbelievable and totally one-dimensional and the plot and dialog were ham-fisted and stereotypical to the nth degree. It's too bad that such good actors (except Lara Flynn Boyle, who was more or less unspeakably terrible) were wasted in this shallow, boring, irritating pretentious garbage. "},{"Title":"Just what was this crap all about?","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lucky 'Fix-it' Mann meets an unhappy, frustrated female client and winds up in bed with her after mouthing some of the most boring one liners I've ever heard. Meanwhile, Lucky's equally frustrated wife falls into bed with Lucky's girlfriend's hubby after some equally abysmal dialogue. Is Hollywood so desperate for films that they will accept anything, or was this garbage rammed through by some powerful yet untalented mogul? Seldom has a picture been this devastatingly dull. One gross of thumbs down. -12 stars. Gad!! "},{"Title":"Great to see Julie Christie again; lots more to enjoy here, too.","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rudolph's films tend to be hit or miss (sometimes by a mile). Afterglow falls below the level of his best -- but his best work surpasses so many other directors working today. And I rushed to see Afterglow despite being warned off by many newspaper and magazine reviews. A lot of my enthusiasm came from a life-long fascination with and enjoyment of Julie Christie's work. And I wasn't disappointed here, although her role is not the largest part -- it is, ultimately, the most central, the vortex of all the rest. Nolte rates near the top with me, as actors go; he gives a fine performance here -- yet probably not one which greatly tests or extends his range. Still, seeing him and Christie together was another powerful incentive for me to see this one and should be for you as well. Be patient with Afterglow; that's my advice. The cinematography works wonderfully, even when some of the plot developments might seem, initially, too predictable -- you might think you know where it's all going. Well, you can still enjoy the ride, tremendously, and it's not really going where it appears to be. There's much below the surface, undertones which you can gradually feel building in pulse. To me the ending was wonderfully cathartic; and we have Christie to thank, as well as Rudolph for that. In some ways, the overall feel of this reminded me of the much earlier Rudolph film (with the wonderful Geraldine Chaplin in a central part) Welcome to L.A. Two very different films, but both well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Afterglow","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This immoral and involuntarily couple-swapping modern-day allegory has its conspicuous foible to cater for a wider demography, a self-consumingly pitched battle falls unfulfilled, one can feel the highly-contrived scheme runs amok at the latter part, and the films ends in an emotional gratification which is too Utopian to be credible to believe. The film garners a third Oscar nomination for the divine Julie Christie (after a 26 year hiatus since MCCABE & MRS. MILLER in 1971), whose role is the thorniest among the two pairs, and the film's pathos concretely hinges on her crack knack to embody the old lady who has her personal magnetism to fling with a frigid and wealthy pretty boy (only half of her age) at a convincing ease. Julie gracefully accomplishes her mission meanwhile Nolte, Miller and Boyle are all in solid shape to enliven their characters with ample credibility, although the thunder remains to belong to Ms. Christie. The central trauma orbits a childless status quo, which both couple yearn to alter, Christie tries to find her daughter back (who has deserted her 8 years ago after overhearing a hidden truth); while the bourgeois young wife Boyle is in eager to get pregnant when his sexually glacial husband refuses or is unable to commit the task. The mirror reflection has been exerted as a recurring gambit in the film, and the not-so-often witty wisecracks could be derived from director/writer Alan's strenuous endeavor on the script. Overall this low-budget marital vignette delivers a dramatic thesis on the lust-harvesting adult world with less-than-eloquent material and theatrical mechanics. Only Julie Christie exhibits a satisfying portrayal to deserve the time and dime we proffer. "},{"Title":"Almost Holds Up Better Thinking About It Than It Does Watching It","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Afterglow is one of those rare movies that I enjoyed thinking about afterwards more than I did actually watching it.Julie Christie and Nick Nolte give phenomenal performances as two adults engaged in naughty infidelities that have serious impacts on them and those they love. Director Alan Rudolph, a protégé of Robert Altman back when Altman was alive, gives the film a gauzy, dream-like quality that makes it stick in the mind long after you've watched it. The ending especially I found to be unnerving and haunting.Christie received her third Best Actress Academy Award nomination and her first since McCabe and Mrs. Miller 26 years earlier.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"an instant favorite","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched this movie, and it has become one of my favorites. It takes great amounts of talent and a sensitive spirit to make a gripping, involving narration of something as common as two married couples with communication, emotional and sexual problems -but Alan Rudolph not only manages to do this, but offers us an absolutely perfect narration, filled with beauty and a sensitive and compassionate look on some of the most common human weaknesses, mistakes, wishes, and dreams.The movie introduces us to two couples the middle-aged Manns, Lucky (Nolte) and Phyllis (a sublime Christie), and the in-their-thirties Byrons, Jeffrey (Miller) and Marianne (Boyle). The former are working class, and the latter are well-off. Both are in the middle of a crisis, due to different reasons, but parenthood and their sex life (or lack thereof) are some of the most obvious. Basically, the movie lets us have a look into each of the characters' desires and dreams, what they want out of their marriage and of life. Logically, the older couple has more regrets about the past, and each of the younger partners is more looking forward to a better future. The four people will become involved with each other in different ways, all full of potential for something better... or for disaster.All in all, the story is easy to follow and, although calm, it is never boring; all of the scenes reveal something important about the characters. Like some other commentators said, Rudolph has an especially good understanding of the female mind, and he is an admirer of the female beauty -he brings out the best, most beautiful and most admirable in Lara Flynn Boyle and Julie Christie, but also of other supporting female characters.The movie isn't as predictable as one might think, it isn't merely a story of dissatisfaction and relationship problems, and it has a few surprises in store for the viewer, but nothing too extravagant or hard to believe. It is, ultimately, a finely crafted parable of the loss of passion -for life, for love, for our dreams and aspirations- and how it is possible to get it back.I would recommend this movie to anyone. My rating is 10/10. "},{"Title":"The MOST Boring Movie--Had to Fastforward A LOT","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Probably the worst movie that I have ever seen. No sense of depth or fullness. Can't believe that this movie could be made. Shocked by Nick Nolte's hair---it was never combed once throughout the entire movie. The movie was very hard to sit through---I just didn't feel any sense of connection to the characters at all. I am trying to understand why some people seemed to enjoy it so much. To post on this board, you have to write ten lines about a movie. I am at a total loss on how to do that when the movie itself was so empty. This is a movie that you will not want to waste any amount of time on. Take my advice, do not watch this movie, even if it is the only one that you have access to watch. "},{"Title":"Delectable treat for those who can chew with patience","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw the movie for a second time, 5 years after the first viewing, and realized that this is not a movie to view casually on a tired evening. My initial assessment was that Julie Christie and Nick Nolte were arresting in a movie with some clever camera-work by Toyomichi Kurita assisted with some interesting music by Mark Isham. Period.The second, more-attentive viewing allowed me to savor the intelligent script and unusual direction of Alan Rudolph. The script is remarkably close to Edward Albee's Who's afraid of Viginia Woolf&#151;-both have two sets of couples, each set a generation apart, the older one ruing the loss of a child.Rudolph presents a script on sex without sex though peppered with wit that could make Noel Coward pale in comparison. For example I'm Jeffrey Byron III. There won't be a IV. We Byrons quit when we get it right. Or I did notice your wedding ring! And the response It's removable! The wit is not obvious&#151;I missed much of it on the first casual viewing&#151;unlike the name of the lead character Lucky Mann, married to an attractive actress who is can be acerbic with her very attractive aging handyman husband as she smirks How was work today, Lucky? Unclog a few tubes? The film is not propped up by the Shawian script alone (interestingly Director Robert Altman is the producer), but Director Rudolph extracts fascinating performance from top four actors who are thoroughly believable. The anguished cry of Julie Christie is the key to the film that transforms Rudolph's script from clever humor to mature tragedy. It is this cry that makes you reevaluate the entire film, why Jeffery (Jonny Lee Miller) balances on roof edges, why Phyllis' (the mesmerizing Julie Christie) soul needs an overhaul, and why Rudolph allows Kurita to make his camera do a cartwheel at several points in the film. Clever, Mr Rudolph, but how many will have the patience to savor it all.Finally, Rudolph has successfully brought out the incredible charm of Julie Christie and the potential of Nick Nolte as actors. It is a pity Christie missed a second Academy Award! "},{"Title":"A sparkling little gem of a movie.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  By toning down the performances and getting tight close-ups, Alan Rudolph was able to capture the subtle interactions between people.  A well-written script painted portraits of people trying to cope with their lives even when they are not what the characters thought they would be.  Just sit back and savor this little dish of a movie. "},{"Title":"Lost Opportunities","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a film about relationships gone sour and lost opportunities.Nick Nolte is one of the most underrated actors in Hollywood and his performance here is brilliant.Julie Christie gives one of the most heartbreaking performances of her career.Although one must admit that the ending is manipulative,it certainly worked on me.I cried all the way home after seeing this film,and four years later I still get choked up just thinking about it!If you appreciate great acting,you should see this film. "},{"Title":"Great to see Julie Christie again; lots more to enjoy here, too.","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rudolph's films tend to be hit or miss (sometimes by a mile). Afterglow falls below the level of his best -- but his best work surpasses so many other directors working today. And I rushed to see Afterglow despite being warned off by many newspaper and magazine reviews. A lot of my enthusiasm came from a life-long fascination with and enjoyment of Julie Christie's work. And I wasn't disappointed here, although her role is not the largest part -- it is, ultimately, the most central, the vortex of all the rest. Nolte rates near the top with me, as actors go; he gives a fine performance here -- yet probably not one which greatly tests or extends his range. Still, seeing him and Christie together was another powerful incentive for me to see this one and should be for you as well. Be patient with Afterglow; that's my advice. The cinematography works wonderfully, even when some of the plot developments might seem, initially, too predictable -- you might think you know where it's all going. Well, you can still enjoy the ride, tremendously, and it's not really going where it appears to be. There's much below the surface, undertones which you can gradually feel building in pulse. To me the ending was wonderfully cathartic; and we have Christie to thank, as well as Rudolph for that. In some ways, the overall feel of this reminded me of the much earlier Rudolph film (with the wonderful Geraldine Chaplin in a central part) Welcome to L.A. Two very different films, but both well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"An interesting movie with a strange theme of consentual infidelity.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I admit that I was entertained by watching this movie, it's strange theme was in total distasteful to me. An older man, played by Nolte, has been cut off by his wife of 24 years, played by Julie Christie. So, they both consent that he will get his sex in other ways. She gets some of her kicks by watching him in action at various bars, while secretly wishing that they could re-establish their old relationship.Meanwhile the younger woman, played by Lara Boyle, wants sex and a baby but her wierd young husband wants nothing to do with it. So she seeks gratification, and pregnancy, elsewhere, while he starts to show interest in older women.All this generates a number of humorous situations, and towards the ending, resolves some old issues. However, the best rating I can give it is 6 of 10. The acting is so over the top in some of the scenes that you don't really take it seriously. Still, if you are a responsible adult, this movie can entertain and be worth watching and pondering. "},{"Title":"I don't understand","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just saw this movie on tv last night and throughout the movie, I kept wondering why Jonny Lee Miller's character was so mean. I don't get it. Why is he so cold to his wife? Why does it seem that the only emotion he can emit is anger? I thought this was a so-so movie, not too shabby but not great either. "}{"Title":"trust the imdb ratings?","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing this film I was wondering what imdb viewers might think of this star studded production. And true to my previous experience, it's a bit off the mark in my opinion. Being sophisticated viewers who appreciate the myriad elements of filmmaking, I can't imagine why imdb voters granted Afterglow a 6.3. This would imply that this is a film worth seeing.Even from a film historian/maven point of view, the release of this film doesn't seem to contribute much except to reiterate that the best of actors often appear in turkeys and that as long as receipts cover the cost of advertising it's better than leaving a film in the can. It also proves that good acting isn't enough to carry a film. Don't take my word for it; see this film and you'll think twice before trusting the imdb viewer poll again! "},{"Title":"a beautiful film","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film struck me as terribly haunting--it does a fine job portraying how individual desires can muck up even the best of relationships.  Very moving.Julie Christie and Nick Nolte prove themselves to be just as impressive as they ever were, and Jonny Lee Miller is wonderful (though his character is not as likeable as I would've liked to have seen).Overall, an impressive film that unwinds subtley and is most certainly worth watching at least once, if not a second or third time.  "},{"Title":"Lara-Flynn Boyle amazes me!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First I just would like to say that its a wonderful movie , its extremely well casted and Julie Christie and Lara-Flynn Boyle are superb. The scene when Julie Christie cries on her bed is very moving and I think that she deserved that oscar. Except for Happiness its Lara-Flynn Boyles best performance in a movie so far , she deserves better roles. I give it 8 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"a radiant risk taken","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  And isn't it a curious thing that for all the huffing & puffing, the riled criticism from my fellow imdb users, no one has thought to comment on the essence of Rudolph's intent our need for love -- and how elusive and transitory that is. Starting with his first feature REMEMBER MY NAME, through WELCOME TO L.A., CHOOSE ME, THE MODERNS, TROUBLE IN MIND, MRS PARKER AND THE VICIOUS CIRCLE to AFTERGLOW and beyond, that theme is elemental. We are in all our glorious glories only human. Alan Rudolph dares to remind us each time out, and I, for one, am all for that. "},{"Title":"a good Alan Rudolph movie!","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" elements of it really are cringe worthy, the name lucky Mann and the smarmy way Nick Nolte talks to his ladies above all. johnny lee miller is so hot, so hot/cold, so interesting I'd never seen him in anything before he looks kind of like an actor from the 40s only with real skin and that turns out to be remarkably hot. as Julie Christie says he is young and beautiful. Julie Christie really is a revelation although in a couple of her scenes the choices do seem a bit extreme or the direction but she deserved a nomination or something. I mean the last shot of her is really well cringe worthy but when you think about actually it it makes sense. she feels nick and Lara are making the nursery together with the idea of having this baby together. she thinks this girl has given him what she did not, having duped him instead, so her despair makes sense. still ... the shot is like oh wow what is this in its wailing pouring ashes upon ones' head it seems to come out of nowhere and it lasts forever and it's pretty unpleasant viewing no two ways about it. in answer to the question what is johnny's problem with Lara well it does appear that he's into older women. what's puzzling is the problem he has with Julie Christie when she humiliates this guy he really hates and turns to him like let's do it and he's like no that was a turn off, you were too slutty with him, we are supposed to imagine he has concluded, basically. say what? she was hardly being slutty, her seductiveness was mocking when she says perhaps another time, emasculating. she even takes the man's phallic symbol champagne bottle from him in case you didn't get it. I felt really cheated that Julie Christie didn't' get laid but I guess the idea is she was already impregnated years before and nick is now making' a baby of his own that she doesn't get to share and thus the rip in their union is healed. as for Lara and johnny, well, they get to be Young and beautiful and perhaps when Lara is older and johnny is a geezer he will want her more! in answer to the question what is this film about what the heck was it all of Alan Rudolph's movies pretty much are about the one and only about once I'm married my wives own me as mickey says in choose me it's other people who pull you apart he goes to extreme lengths to prove this rather like Stanley Kubrick going overboard to defend freedom of thought in a clockwork orange. anyway this one is a good one not disappointing because it's funny and kinda sweet and kinda sexy and it has that amazing Alan Rudolph style, the slow camera movements through which various objects pass on different paths, these gavotte like spires of martinville like polyphonic spacial relationships are explored so seductively. it was a tad too long. and yeah the sets were awesome. the score was really nice too with some particularly gorgeous haunting moments when that female solo voice reiterates the one note... also the girl who has the nonspeaking role of the daughter of nick and Julie is just gorgeous. Good Alan Rudolph movie. not like mrs parker which was one of the disappointing ones or trixie which was nauseating. . . "},{"Title":"Pretty bad.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some movies need a good murder. This one needs a  good serial killer, like Michael Myers. Instead, what we get is a slower than molassis character study, from Montreal, about aging actors and a sexual comedy of errors. Freudian symbolism is shoved down our throats - lots and lots of tools, ever recurring sigars and intergenerational sexual relationships (did anyone say Oedipus?). It isn't that I dislike all Canadian movies, but when they stink - yikes. Slow, uninspired, insulting the viewer's investment of time. On the other hand, I've read several (paper) reviews of people who liked it, and I suppose that _if you like this genre_, it's ok. And it's nice to see Julie Christie again (last time I saw her was in Don't Look Now with Donald Sutherland).  "}]