[{"Title":"Terrific, just plain terrific","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"50 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" According to an earlier review, this movie is supposed to be just plan awful. The writer probably meant plain instead of plan, and that misspelling may be an indication of the quality of the review.There is much to be said for the viewpoint that this film version of Tolstoy's novel, starring Sophie Marceau, must certainly be one of the greatest versions ever produced.Tolstoy himself lived to see just the beginning of the era of the motion picture and was said to have been fascinated by the possibilities the new medium presented. If so, he would no doubt have been quite astonished at the beauty and the extraordinary quality of this rendition of his story about Anna Karenina. The production values are among the highest there could possibly be. The costumes, the cinematography, and the sets &#150; unlike earlier versions, the film was shot on location in St. Petersburg and elsewhere in Russia &#150; are at such a remarkable level that the action almost does appear to be really taking place in the Czarist period at the end of the nineteenth century.As for Sophie Marceau's mild French accent &#150; which the above-mentioned reviewer found so irritating &#150; it is quite likely that many upper-classes Russians of the period actually did speak with a French accent. It was not Russian but French that was the dominant language among the Russian nobility and aristocracy of the time &#150; for some, French was in fact their native language, since many of them never learned to speak Russian at all, except perhaps a few words and phrases they could use to communicate with the servants.What is perhaps most remarkable of all in this film is the utterly believable way that the behavior of the of characters is presented. Their motives are suggested with great subtlety, not in the somewhat simplistic tones of the (nevertheless still magnificent) MGM version of the film that starred Greta Garbo seventy years ago. Anna's husband is not a monster, for example, in this new version, but a rather pathetic, right-wing government bureaucrat with obsessively strict moral values. Moreover, the portrayal of Anna's behavior throughout the film, and especially in the final scenes, is a masterpiece of sympathetic psychological insight and understanding.This film is a &#150; for the time being, anyway &#150; neglected classic. "},{"Title":"Faithful to the novel and a pleasure for the eyes.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of all the versions of the Tolstoy novel which I have seen (two with Greta Garbo, the deplorable one with Vivien Leigh, another with Jacqueline Bisset), this is the one that really  reflects the scope and social observation of the book. The careful direction and art direction, the St.Petersburg backgrounds, as well as the exquisite cinematography, make this movie a real feast for the eyes, with magnificent plastic compositions and lighting in every shot. The abused Tchaikovsky music was used discreetly. Sophie Marceau plays a very young Anna, and makes her credible all the time. Sean Bean and James Fox, as Vronsky and Karenin, are admirable. And even if the screen play by director Bernard Rose is a little too literary, the complete story was told, and the result was the best Anna Karenina the screen has offered. "},{"Title":"Why did it not win anything?","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this movie I thought it won many awards, but when I found out that it didn't. I was thoroughly disappointed. How come it didn't? It has amazing cinematography, costumes, performances, etc. I do not understand why it was quite under-rated. It should have won at least an award for best costume design. Sophie Marceau was stunning, She was plausible as Anna Karenina, she really did her best as a woman who gave up everything to be with her frustrated love Vronsky (Sean Bean). Sean Bean envelops himself into the role very well. The costumes were flashy as well as the scenery.   It was wonderful since I could really see all seasons in Russia like spring, Fall, Summer, especially winter. It was amazing to see the credible snow and cold wind. It really deserved some awards, but anyway What can I do? The best part of this movie was its tragic ending as Anna Karenina commits suicide by falling onto the train tracks. It certainly made me think. It's worth watching. Don't miss it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"This is one of my favorites","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I disagree that this was terrible. I am a big time historical movie and costume buff, so I watch everything I can get my hands on and there is hardly a period drama I have not seen. I have also read the book. While the story line of the movie doesn't necessarily follow the novel, I am still sucked into it every time I see it. I found their chemistry wonderful, the costumes lovely and very period accurate, the music and cinematography fabulous. I have seen it over a dozen times (bought the DVD) and STILL never get bored. Sophia Marceau was a perfect choice in my opinion. She is classically beautiful, and the right combination of all the elements that made her character.....chaste wife turned star crossed lover, strong, confidant woman melted to vulnerable young girl. I adored Sean Bean also. I found him totally believable, and I fail to understand how anyone even remotely interested in period dramas could fail to appreciate this film. "},{"Title":"Imperfect, but beautiful nonetheless","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now, perhaps I'm out of my element writing a review for Anna Karenina without having read the book, but I shall do so regardless.  Many criticised this film because it did not follow the book, or omitted one thing or another.  That is all well and good, but what feature-length film *can* capture the entire scope of a novel the size of Anna Karenina?  I watched the older version with Greta Garbo and--though I cannot imagine why--it never truly caught my attention.  This version, however, captured me from the start.  And I am usually the first one to complain about what is wrong with a remake in comparison to the old version.  A paradox, indeed.This film first caught my eye because of Sophie Marceau.  I admire her immensely as an actress, having seen her in several films, both French and English.  Then, I recognised Bernard Rose as the director of Immortal Beloved, a film I had enjoyed some months before, mostly due to a magnificent performance by Gary Oldman, some of the most glorious music caught on film.The music, I can probably cite as one of the main reasons I loved this film.  I can think of no better love theme for a doomed romance like that of Anna and Vronsky, than the first movement of Tchaikovsky's Sixth Symphony.  The use of Swan Lake at various points was also wonderful, and the interplay during the scene at the ballet held me mesmerised.  Vronsky speaks of Anna being trapped in her marriage as the Prince seeks to capture the Swan Queen.  Perhaps I'm just rambling, but somehow that connected.On the whole, the performances were good.  Sophie Marceau was perfectly believable as Anna, and some of her scenes sent chills down my spine, though my favourite performance of hers still has to be Firelight.  Sean Bean had me worried for a few seconds, with a mannered reading or two, but improved quickly as the film progressed.  Another reviewer pointed out that Vronsky was meant to be a shallower character than Anna, and now that I think back on it, I believe that is very true, and that Sean Bean's performance reflected this superficiality.  Mia Kirshner was adequate--I didn't particularly care for her--but Alfred Molina and James Fox both gave fine performances (a standout for me was when Anna wrote Karenin from Italy and Karenin wavered before refusing to let her see Sergei).However, equally on par with the actors, was the setting.  Very few films, I have to admit, can look *so* beautiful.  Especially the ballroom scene, with the seemingly neverending hallway of gilded doors, the location photography was spectacular.  The costumes were stunning, and the cinematography made even snow seem alive.  Even if you do not care for the story or the acting, this is a film to watch for visuals.Thus, I believe that this film deserves far more credit than it received.  I, personally, loved it for varied reasons, but I have to admit that what truly captured me was the way Bernard Rose can take an average script and transform it into a beautiful film using visuals and music.  Very few directors take the time to put music and image together if they use classical scores (my favourites would be David Lean and John Boorman), and I believe Bernard Rose should be watched in the future.  I should love to see what he would do with a film set in late 19th century Italy, when opera was at its height!***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Very disappointing!","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"27 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all It's a great story. Incredible, how the author Leo Tolstoi describes the feelings of a woman who gave up everything (marriage, child, social reputation) for her love and commits suicide when she thinks that she will lose this love too. But the film is horrible.   Yes, the pictures are good, but first of all the choice of Sophie Marceau was a terrible mistake. In the book Anna is, before she meets her later lover Wronski, a well situated lady with no personal conflicts in her life. She is self-confident, and other women come to her to get good advices for their problems with the husband, the children and so on. And then Anna meets Wronski, and her life shatters like glass. They fall in love madly, but this love is for both the worst thing that ever happens to their lives. It ruins both of them. Sophie Marceau isn't able to play this self-confident, cool woman. From the beginning she seems to be a nervous teenager, and so the drama of the story can't be developed. There is also no passion between her and Sean Bean. I only felt very, very bored. It's a pity, that this great story was ruined, because when I heard that there would be a remake of Anna Karenina, I was very curious, because the book is one of my favourites. Unfortunately I have to say Go and read the book! It's much better! "},{"Title":"Eye candy which barely misses the mark!","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure how this movie slipped past me, as I try to stay on top of the period movies that come out. Nonetheless I caught it on one of the Encore channels last night, and I'm glad I did. Visually this movie is incredible! The cinematography could not have been much better, down to small details such as Levin mowing in the fields with the scythe in perfect rhythm with the workers.As much as I like the film, however, I'm disappointed that Sophie Marceau's portrayal of Anna was not more passionate. On the whole I thought her performance was pretty good, but I agree with the comments above that she could have exhibited a much more involved and emotional presence in the face of a love that she could not resist. Ditto for Sean Bean, although he was somewhat better at it than Sophie. It's a situation where one fervently wishes that the actors were better than they were, because you know that it would have made the movie a 10. Both Bean and Marceau did provide some excellent glimpses into the souls of their characters, but only glimpses. One would wish for more intimate looks into their motivations and their respective desolations. I was not at all put off by accents of the actors. So Marceau has a mild French accent...French was the dominant language of the Russian court up to the Revolution, so it would not have been out of place at all.The story of Levin and Kitty fares better, if only because of the stellar performance of Alfred Molina. Offhand I can't think of a more underrated actor (save perhaps Ron Perlman). Ms. Kirshner was fine as Kitty, although her journey from infatuation with Vronsky to love for Levin was given short shrift.Overall I loved this movie, but I just wish it had been two marks better. "},{"Title":"Oh yes!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say, I was dragged to see this one by my girlfriend and to say I was sceptical about it's likely entertainment value would be a considerable understatement. Unfortunately for my pride, this film completely blew me away.I won't dwell on the story, as it is apparently very well known (except to heathens such as myself), but I do know that it did capute love and denial and sadness in a way I've never seen before.The cinematography is also fantastic.  Watch out especially for the dancing scenes in the ballroom and the horse racing.If all period costume movies were like this, then I'd abandon Sci-Fi altogether!  "},{"Title":"Lovely.... absolutely lovely.","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was surprisingly good. I'm not that much a fan of the Romance genre, if truth be told, but I'll make an exception for this one. The film is carefully crafted. Every emotion, every dialogue enhanced the overall tone of the film, slowly but surely escalating in its momentum up to its tragic climax.Sophie Marceau was brilliant. As was Sean Bean. I wasn't quite sure if they would be able to possess the kind of chemistry needed to pull this off, if truth be told, considering how they (in my opinion) seem to be of different temperament artistically (Sophie being more sensitive as seen in Braveheart and Marquis, while Bean is more explosive). Nevertheless, it worked out fine although, ironically, their relationship seem to be more believable whenever they fell out of odds with each other. ) "},{"Title":"In regards to Anna Karenina","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The novel Anna Karenina by the genius Leo Tolstoy's a superlative example of what makes literature so wondrous.  The movie for the most accurately gauges the majesty of his novel.  Overall the movie's a fantastic adaptation with Sean Bean whose performance's always excellent.  Sophie Marceau looked beautiful and played the role of Anna superbly.  Some scenes were omitted or altered but overall, a fantastic book to movie adaptation. "}{"Title":"Half the material","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While the production design, photography costumes etc are all quite spectacular this is only half the book. That it is not really the book which may seem a normal quibble, but all the other details which are so rich in the original, is lost here and what is left is a melodrama.One reason is that the length of a great novel cannot ever be crammed into a film of normal endurance. The problem then becomes one of audience engagement and also character motivation because the characters are so attenuated in the film. The rich back histories and the social settings and discussion of current ideas is also fundamental to a Tolstoy novel and here it is only hinted at in parts.Some level of implication is good in a film, unlike a novel, but in this case it is reduces a novel to a text message.The result is not a bad film, but is unfortunately superficial. The task the filmmakers set is enormous - too big for what is accomplished. It's solution is not in this medium and at this length a multi-part TV series would be have been better. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, but truncated...","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Which is entirely to be expected with a novel the size and complexity, I'm told, of Leo Tolstoy's Anna Karenina, which I have not read.I will blushingly admit that I first viewed this film mostly because of Sean Bean's presence. I found him a superb actor in the Lord of the Rings, and hoped to find more in his other works.Truthfully, his portrayal of Vronsky feels somewhat light in this film; I attribute this to three factors the severe compression of the novel (as happens with all film adaptations), the actual nature of the character itself, and the slightly boring task of playing mostly passion. Unlike other viewers, I found it very difficult to sympathize with Vronsky, and his repentance hollow. My heart melted somewhat, though, during his flashback to Karenina's corpse at the railway, and his brimming eyes as the train pulled away. Redeemed slightly at the very last moment.Sophie Marceau is stunning as Anna Karenina; I found her enchanting from the start. Marceau plays the title lady with dignity, elegance, and grace; in her more intimate and emotional moments, she portrays Karenina's motherly and passionate sides with skill.The inevitable flaws of adaptation show through in this film; there are numerous location changes, and multiple quick passages of time. Every event feels strung together by a thread, which they likely are, chosen for their narrative value. Yet it doesn't work, as the overall result lacks a palatable sense of cohesion. The love story of Karenina and Vronsky feels chopped and rushed, as does the tale of Levin and his Kitty -- which is too bad, since they are both the anchor narratives. The contrast of the two, however, plays well, and reminds me of the romances in Michael Ondaatje's English Patient (I'm well aware Tolstory precedes Ondaatje).The greatest features of Anna Karenina lie in the atmosphere. Despite the out-of-place original accents of the actors, Russian is spoken skilfully, and the chosen music is beautiful and appropriately evocative of an older, grander time. and the lovely landscapes of Russia play a beautiful role in the background. The costumes and sets are breathtaking; the highlight is surely the ballroom scene, when all are attired for an evening out and Tchaikovsky's Swan Lake Waltz is playing.While an excellent effort, Anna Karenina eventually feels like what it is a cinematic adaptation of a novel.I'd give it a 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"a beautiful moving masterpiece","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw anna towards the end when i was home from school sick.  I could not take my eyes off the television and was spellbound.  i did not even know what the movie was called and I caught only the last half hour but I went out the next day and rented it and ended up with a 7 day late charge.  It was so deeply moving and beautiful.  I was mesmerized.  The only flaw in this film was the weak link named mia kirschner,  but it can be forgiven because marceau and beans performances were absolutely stunning.  I have cried my heart dry watching this film every time and i watch it once a week at least.  Bean is brilliant throughout but he is incredible at the end talking to tolstoy in the train about going off to die.  he is so restrained and holding pain within and trying to hold up some sort of front that is strong and it is made so clear to the audience exactly what he is going through.  both actors go through great transformations from beginning to end.  the dazzling socialite and the handsome virile soldier who become shells of those former selves drowning into madness and grief.  Perhaps the two most poignant parts for me are the scene of anna playing with the doll and the smile on her face just as she falls onto the train tracks. Sorrowfully beautiful,utterly romantic, and tragic.  One of my all time favorite movies. "},{"Title":"not too bad","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I will hereby join the legions of ladies (and perhaps some gents too?) that sat down to watch this version of Anna Karenina simply because of the presence of Sean Bean.I have to say, I was not disappointed, though in this version Vronsky's screen-time is drastically reduced. I was very impressed with Alfred Molina and James Fox, both played their parts with conviction and in my opinion stayed true to the characters from the book. I wish I could say the same for Sophie Marceau, but unfortunately I found her rather shallow and annoying. Perhaps it was just because her accent was so out of place, but whatever the reason, I found her portrayal of Anna unrealistic and unsympathetic.The best Anna Karenina that I have come across so far, is easily Vivian Leigh in the 1948 version, which to date I believe to be the best one yet. If you are looking for only one version of this movie to watch, I recommend that one, although it is of course sadly lacking the dashing Mr. Bean -) "},{"Title":"Disappointing Cliffs Notes version of novel","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bernard Rose showed with IMMORTAL BELOVED that he's a good director, but this and CANDYMAN show he's flawed at writing.  This is deservedly known as one of the great novels of our time, but you wouldn't know it from this movie.  Admittedly, it looks breathtaking, and the performers all look their parts quite well.  The main problems are when the actors speak, and the way Rose makes this a Cliffs Notes version of the novel.  We only hit the high spots, and there's no emotional connection to the story at all, plus we miss the humanity of Tolstoy's view towards his characters.Sophie Marceau may be good in French films, but I wasn't impressed with her in BRAVEHEART, and I'm not impressed with her here; her reading of Anna is too shallow.  Sean Bean, for some reason, plays Vronsky like he was playing 006 in GOLDENEYE, and while Mia Kirschner (an excellent actress), as Kitty, tries, she's too modern.  James Fox is Karenin, and this is a role he's done so many times he can do it in his sleep, which he does.  Alfred Molina is another actor I'm not a big fan of, but as Levin, he gives the only believable performance. "},{"Title":"Somewhere inside this lukewarm movie, there's a very good movie struggling to get out.","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Anna Karenina isn't quite a terrible movie. The scenery is pretty; the score, courtesy of Tchaikovsky, is great; and the attempt to balance the two types of relationships is a noble one. Unfortunately, Anna Karenina is a severely hobbled movie.The biggest problem, it pains me to say, is the miscasting of Sophie Marceau in the central role. She is never passionate enough to make us understand why she gives up everything for Vronsky (Sean Bean). Even during some of the more passionate scenes, she is still too composed and collected (Bean suffers from a similar problem, although not as severely as Marceau). Moreover, her French accent is seriously distracting. I admire anybody who can speak multiple languages, but it's all wrong for this movie. The wildly different accents destroy the rhythm of Anna and Vronksy's conversations, and it sometimes feels as though they're not even in the same scene. This, in turn, disastrously torpedoes their chemistry -- a fatal flaw when your entire movie is based on a hot, illicit love affair.Ironically, both Bean and Marceau have their best moments after the affair goes sour. Vronsky's impatience is the first time we see true sparks from the character; Anna's hallucinations, and the separation from her living son, are genuinely disturbing. The filmmakers try to juxtapose Anna and Vronsky's whirlwind affair with the slow-but-steady love that develops between rich Levin (Alfred Molina) and Princess Kitty (Mia Kirshner). Although the effort is noble, it has the same effect as the smorgasbord of accents, that of entirely destroying the movie's pace. It feels rushed and superficial in some places, but ploddingly slow in others. Taken on its own, however, Levin's story is far more compelling than the main plot's lukewarm attempts at passion. Wringing every last drop of psychological depth out of the script, Molina gives a wonderful glimpse into the character's loneliness, melancholy, and eventual peace -- you almost found yourself wishing the movie were just about this guy. As his love interest, Mia Kirschner is a total lightweight and her Canadian accent is as jarring as Marceau's French one; fortunately, Molina has enough gravitas for both of them. If the script had been better, he would have brought the entire movie into warm focus. As it is, the movie feels disjointed and rambling. Had it been better organized -- and perhaps differently cast -- we might have seen an interesting meditation on the various kinds of love. As it is, we see only a few bright spots amid a sea of disappointment. "},{"Title":"Visually and audibly stunning, but overall one of the weaker adaptations","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Along with War and Peace, Anna Karenina is one of the greatest Russian novels and one of the greats of 19th century literature, the story is heart-breaking and intense and the characters compelling. Anna Karenina has often been filmed, and of the film versions the 1967 Russian and 1935 Greta Garbo films fare the best and the 2012 Joe Wright-directed version the weakest. This 1997 adaptation from Bernard Rose (Paperhouse, Immortal Beloved, Candyman) has a good amount to like but is one of the weaker adaptations.Visually, the film looks absolutely stunning and along with the 1967 Russian film it is one of the most evocative adaptations period detail-wise. Although some of the editing is choppy, the cinematography is ravishing and the costumes and sets are some of the most beautiful and evocative of any adaptation of Anna Karenina, especially in the opulent ballroom scene and the gorgeous wintry landscapes. The Tchaikovsky-laden music score makes for an aural feast and couldn't have fitted more perfectly.Three performances are good. Coming off best is Alfred Molina, who brings authority and many layers to Levin, wish more was done with developing the character more in terms of writing but at least the film included the character and his subplot with Kitty. James Fox is a ruthlessly cold and haunting Karenin, the character played consistently well in all the Anna Karenina adaptations even in the not-so-good ones. Sean Bean is a handsome Vronsky, but brings a steely intensity to the role that stops the character from being wooden or tragic, rightfully avoiding the dashing heroic figure stereotype.Sophie Marceau however I found miscast as Anna, she looks splendid but is pretty vacuous and lacking in passion. Her chemistry with Bean convinces in the latter and more turbulent parts of the relationship but dull in the early parts. Mia Kirschner is also rather too modern and lightweight for Kitty. This version of Anna Karenina is a visual and aural stunner with a few impressive performances, but is one of the least successful and interesting versions in terms of script and how the story is told.The dialogue doesn't always flow naturally, and feels very dry in tone and with little depth and substance, and the narration was rather unnecessary. Rose's direction shows terrific technical assurance but lacks the same kind of momentum in telling the story. It's the story where the film most falls down, feeling far too short and far too rushed, with about half of the story (or so it feels) being told but all in Cliff Notes version, and it even feels like more of the film was filmed but cut due to studio interference. Neither of the romances are dealt with well, Anna and Vronsky's is too rushed and the very incomplete-feeling one between Levin and Kitty sometimes really slows down the film.Overall, not a bad version but a less than ideal one, as an adaptation and as a film on its own. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"It would be perfect if...","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I do not agree with the earlier reviews that Vivian Leigh played Anna better than Sophy Marceau. It is just that the 1948 version was by itself a better film. The weakness of the 1997 version is that it the scenes are too short and scattered together, and this makes it difficult to express the emotions of the characters and the overall idea behind Tolstoy's novel. But this is the weakness of the movie makers, not the actors. In the 1948 version, the scenes are very detailed and the conversations are long enough to express the idea of each scene. 1948 version is good, but not the best. I don't know if anyone has seen the British miniseries of 2000-2001, but if you want to understand the idea of the book, you should watch it. The cast is not the best, Anna looks old and not suited for this role although she acts perfectly, Vronsky cannot even be compared with Sean Bean, but it's very detailed and just gets deep down to the main core of the novel. It also covers Levin perfectly. The 1997 version pays significant attention to Levin's character as well, but again, because the scenes are too confusing, it will be difficult for those who haven't read the book to understand the true meaning of it. So if the makers of the 1997 version spent a little more time on each scene and included the small details (they make a huge difference), this movie would be absolutely perfect. Other than that, this version is just beautiful with its costumes, music, settings, and cast. It pictures 19th century Russia perfectly unlike any other version before or after it (including the 2000 version). "},{"Title":"Captivating!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent rendition of a very complex book.  Beautifully shot & exquisitely acted, the spirit of the book for once remains in tact when making the transition to film.  Had this film been made in Hollywood, I've no doubt that Anna would have lived & Vronsky would have married her right before they rode off into the sunset together.  As it is, the story is well written.  I especially love Alfred Molina in the role of Levin, the protagonist, but the entire cast is just wonderful.  This is a film I watch over & over, mesmerized by the story and the artistry of the film itself.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful 2 hours!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie almost accidentally and I LOVED it! It made me a fan of Sophie Marceau, a beautiful and talented French actress. To my delight Sophie is starring in some upcoming movies (which I will not miss). I would recommend this movie to anyone looking for a movie with all the components that makes a classic. Too bad it didn't hit the mainstream, it was very under-rated. Bottom line I loved this movie, and I am usually quite picky about which movies I say that about!  "}{"Title":"Visually gorgeous, sympahetic characters and lovely music. Liked it better than the book..","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Visually, this film is gorgeous. Sophie Marceau is perfect as Anna and Alfred Molina also shines. Sean Bean, known for finding the humanity in the worst of characters, is the most likeable, sympathetic and attractive Vronsky I have seen. He does not portray the transformation of the selfish, spoilt, wealthy and aristocratic mother's darling into a deeply remorseful, more mature individual who learns that there is a price to pay for taking whatever you want and you had better consider the price worth it.  A pity as the contrasting story of Levin (Alfred Molina) and his unselfish devotion to Princess Kitty requires that the point be made.  You reap what you sow. Similarly, James Fox is too tolerant and long-suffering as Karenin. Tostoy's Karenin is a self-important bureaucrat who disguises his revenge on Anna as piety. HOWEVER...maybe not be accurate Tolstoy but the sheer niceness of all the characters makes one care far more when tragedy strikes than I ever did when I read the book.  Gorgeous music also. "},{"Title":"The best version of Anna Karenina I've seen","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally, a version of Anna Karenina that doesn't skip over Levin and Kitty's story.  Although it seems impossible to put this whole novel into movie length, this is the closest I've seen a movie come.  I've seen a few versions of this, and I even thought this was better than the Garbo one. The visuals are amazing, and once in a while, people actually speak Russian! This is the greatest novel ever written, so no film could ever do it justice, but this one came pretty close.   "},{"Title":"RE Anna Karenina","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To be honest, I have not read this book. I have heard that it was a classic and all those other things that people say about his book, but really had no idea what the story is about. Actually, the main reason that I watched this movie, was that Sean Bean was in it(I had previously seen him in Lord of the Rings, and really enjoyed him). I was surprised to find this story so engaging. I thought that he was amazing in this movie, very charming. He just has this intangible quality that always has me rooting for him.This is the first movie that I have ever seen Sophie Marceau in(playing Anna Karenina) and I found that she portrays Anna with a delicate grace, that makes you understand Vronsky's(Bean) dogged pursuit of her.True, I have to say that I found the end a little disappointing, and heart-wrenching. Sean Bean shines at the end of the movie, I think he really shows well just how much Vronsky finally realizes he has lost.  "},{"Title":"Very beautiful in it's own way!","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Though not a faithful adaptation like any other until now, it's a very decent and well done with no doubt. Sophie Marceau played Anna beautifully and Sean Bean was very good as Vronsky. The only versions I watched about Leo Tolstoy's novel are this and the 2012 one, which I consider a gorgeous adaptation, despite the critics and public review, and also refreshing and interesting which it's what I admire from an new adaptation.This adaptation retains most of the Russian feeling and atmosphere, being filmed there, and also including some Russian dialog from time to time. It's something that inspires a lot of respect indeed, but that doesn't mean we should criticize the other adaptations for being filmed in Britain or America or, the most common complain nowadays, for having British accents.This one has British accents too, but because there are more well-known actors/actress appreciated by the public and most important because it was filmed in Russia with some mild Russian dialog, some parts for which other adaptations suffer has been overlooked here. I, as a viewer and a fan of movies, never ever paid attention that much to accents. If that's a good thing or not, it's up to every persons personal view, but for me it's a very silly and childish thing to judge a movie and the actors performances 70% based on what accents they perform. This brings in my view the theory that people get very bored in this life lately and prefer to pick up on silly matters in every aspect of his life. This only will downfall this world. One should learn to appreciate simple things more and pay attention to what matters.I recommend this one, for being a very decent adaptation, not all faithful but it doesn't matter in my opinion.The performances were great, the actors did a superb job, and Russia looks stunning. But I also recommend the 2012 version too. They are both brilliant in their own way, but warning tell them apart and don't compare them. They are different. For me Keira was a perfect Anna Karenina. Sophie did a wonderful job too, but I love Keira more and so does my mother, who loves the book and this version, but admires the new one too.8/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful Movie!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  It was so beautiful!  The scenery, camera tricks, the costumes, and the actors were splendid.  "},{"Title":"Audacity","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's time directors should refrain from distorting the language of literature (not just some best selling silly fiction). With expensive sets, historic backdrop, all kinds of grandeur and glamorous actresses they simply forget what the main story is all about. And things go absolutely disastrous when do the same kind of treatment to Tolstoy (one of the greatest authors the world of literature has ever seen).This is absolute audacity. Anna Karenina is not just a story of a naive infidel wife. And when there is an attempt to fit in just a few snapshots within those few hours all you get is a bogus piece of movie like this. It's meaningless to talk about how the movie did not match up to the novel. Watching this movie is just another (silly) experience of costumes and glamorous sets; like watching a fashion show and nothing else. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The story itself is fairly good, but I just don't understand that so- called 'actors' are incapable of doing accents. This is supposed to be about Russia, not England. The English accents make this absolutely comical and lowers the standard of the production. Sometimes you wonder how they got their acting jobs in the first place if they are incapable....of acting. And acting includes doing accents. I think it also reflects the level of acting coming out from England when they only seem capable of doing English accents. Was the whole world English at one time? I couldn't bare to finish watching this film and had to leave it about a third of the way into it, mostly due to the accents.I kept thinking it was set in England. Best going for the book. "},{"Title":"Anna Karenina Film Review","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Anna Karenina Film Review I think that this is an excellent movie. Audiences see how a strict social code dictates the way people live and the choices they make or in some cases don't make. While Anna does have an affair with Vronsky and breaks moral codes, the audience feels for her because she is trapped in a marriage with no way out. Anna is a tragic and condemned character because she is a superfluous women. Anna has wealth and privilege, but she is also bored and disregards the social values of that time (by openly having an affair with Vronsky). Anna was a character who was far ahead of her time. The themes of Anna Karenina include social norms, family and love. Social norms during that time wouldn't let Anna have a divorce from her husband so she could be with Vronsky. Anna suffered terribly for her choice to be with him. She was ostracized by the community, the Russian aristocracy, lost her husband and her son, Seryozha. Eventually Anna is driven to madness and commits suicide. The social norm was also the double standard between men and women. An example is Anna's brother, Stiva, who has an affair with a governess and yet, unlike Anna, faces no public scorn or humiliation. Vronsky also doesn't suffer nearly as bad as Anna. Vronsky is able to move within society with relative ease. The double standard only applied to gender. Women represented purity and any woman who had an affair and tainted that image faced serious repercussions as Anna experienced. The theme of family is evident throughout the film. Anna destroys her family because of her affair with Vronsky. Anna is forced to sneak back into her old home to see Seryozha on his birthday. On the other hand, Levin builds a family and his storyline concludes with him finding happiness. In the end, Anna has lost all meaning in her life without her family. Whereas Levin's life gained purpose with his marriage to Kitty. The final message is that family and happiness go together. Love is an important theme in Anna Karenina. Anna wasn't able to find love in her marriage to Karenin so she looks to her affair with Vronsky to find love which leads to her death in every sense of the word. There is a conflict between her love for Seryozha and Vronsky. Anna abandons her son to be with Vronsky and the consequence is that she is unable to love and trust anyone which was the one thing that she was looking for. There was a case of a women who was a mistress of one of Tolstoy's neighbors. In a jealous attack she threw herself under a train ending her life. This case is exactly like that of Anna Karenina. Both were mistress's who ended their lives due to the impact that their affairs had on their lives. These events in real life and the novel lead back to the double standard that women faced when having affairs and the repercussions of their actions (being ostracized by society). "},{"Title":"Story and characters unclear if you do not know anything about it prior","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I would love to say that I liked this movie but unfortunately, I cannot. I have not read the novel and it was only after a class discussion on the film that I understood what was happening. After the discussion, it became clear how the film illustrates the central themes of Anna Karennina, particularly the changing role of women in society as well as an analysis of family and relationships. The double standards between men and women are clearly shown in the film, most evidently with Anna and her brother, who experience totally different circumstances as a result of almost identical behavior involving adultery and the pursuit of divorce. Anna is relegated to a life of shame in which she cannot leave the house, let alone care for her son, while her brother and Vronsky are still respected in society and able to do what they please. In fact, Vronsky's involvement in the affair works to his advantage if he chose to leave Anna, though she is completely dependent on him.Furthermore, the juxtaposition of Anna's story and that of Levin serves to emphasize Tolstoy's deconstruction of family life and relationships. It is clear that their stories are polar opposites at all times. While Levin was alone and unhappy in the beginning, Anna was just beginning her passionate affair with Vronsky. In the end, Levin has a son with a loving wife while Anna loses her child, her husband, and eventually her life.Another critical aspect of the story that can be seen in the movie is the modernization of Russia and whether Russia would embrace or reject it. There are multiple demonstrations of modernization in the film, including the important role of trains in the storyline. This is also clear in the scene where Levin and his peasants work the land using traditional tools instead of more advanced plowing technology that was available at the time. Levin's appreciation of the traditional method and how peacefully they completed the task could show the rejection of modernization in that moment.Levin's character in general is a representation of Tolstoy himself, as demonstrated at the end when he signed the letter as Tolstoy. It was interesting how the film took it one step further by having Levin sign his name as such. Apparently Tolstoy also preferred the countryside and was close to his peasants. The representation of Tolstoy within Levin is also made abundantly clear in the two scenes where Levin attempts to identifies and attempts to answer philosophical questions. These include the accursed questions that were an integral part of Tolstoy's philosophy.Overall, the story and characters as envisioned by Tolstoy are great, but this film adaption did not do a good job of communicating the above ideas. The film itself provides no context or explanation for the plot or characters, and does a terrible job in portraying the characters in a way where one can empathize with and understand them. This is definitely a film that requires prior knowledge of the story and characters to be appreciated. "},{"Title":"A worthy version to appreciate, with a creative visual interpretation of the famous ending","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like Ivansxtc 2002 (also based on a Leo Tolstoy novel, and featured Wagner's Tristan und Isolde), writer-director Bernard Rose optimizes classical music compositions with thoughtful imageries on screen vs. literal dialogs in his 1997 Anna Karenina, produced by Warner Bros. and Icon Productions (Mel Gibson affiliated). Sophie Marceau is Anna. Take a close watch at her nuanced facial expressions towards the seemingly 'interminable' end - a remarkable four-minutes worth. Of course, director Rose has everything to do with the visually creative presentation. This version of Anna Karenina could be one of the more positive of endings. Yes, it ends not with the usual ending by the train tracks. Bernard Rose the screenwriter gives us enhanced perspectives - there is the parallel story of Levin and Kitty beyond the famous couple of Anna and Vronsky.  The story is told from the point of view of Alfred Molina's Levin - we hear his voice-over comments now and then throughout the film. Molina gave a remarkable subdued performance, a rather quiet one compared to his explosive, high energy manic characters in other films. Sean Bean is Vronsky. Mia Kirshner is Kitty. Danny Huston, who's the brilliant main focus in Ivansxtc, plays Anna's brother, Stiva - friend to Levin and brother-in-law to Kitty. James Fox is the husband, Karenin, and briefly, Fiona Shaw as Lydia, influencing Karenin and becoming the 'unspoken threat' to Anna.The film was authentically shot entirely on location at St. Petersburg and Moscow. Several Tchaikovsky pieces featured were performed by the St. Petersburg Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Sir Georg Solti (Symphony No. 6 in B Minor, Op. 74 - Pathetique; Eugene Onegin; Violin Concerto in D Major, Op 35; Swan Lake). I have seen the silent B/W version of director Edmund Goulding's 1927 Love with Greta Garbo and John Gilbert, and director Clarence Brown's 1935 Anna Karenina with Garbo and Frederic March. Somehow I found there's more spark, passion and drama in director Rouben Mamoulian's 1933 Queen Christina with Garbo and Gilbert. Perhaps it's about the period of 1880's restrictive Russian society, a more emotionally successful portrayal of love affair is Martin Scorcese's 1993 Age of Innocence (Edith Wharton's story of late nineteenth century New York high society) - Michelle Pfeiffer and Daniel Day Lewis (Countess Olenska and Newland Archer) certainly gave a titillating relationship on screen of forbidden romance. For sensitive depiction of angst, pangs and passion of marital infidelity, try Tony Goldwyn's directorial debut A Walk on the Moon (1999) with Diane Lane as Pearl the wife, Viggo Mortensen as Walker Jerome the blouse man, Liev Schreiber as Marty the husband, and an equally poignant performance from Anna Paquin as Alison the teenage daughter growing up during the summer of Woodstock. If you appreciate Sophie Marceau and costume drama, she gave a refined portrayal of an 1800's governess with a secret/restrained emotion and passion, opposite Stephen Dillane (who's Leonard Woolf opposite Nicole Kidman in The Hours 2002) in writer-director William Nicholson's directorial debut Firelight (1997).   "}{"Title":"Worth seeing if you don't read the novel first","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While many details of the novel were left out, Director Bernard Rose crafted an elegant interpretation of the Russian classic. Sofie Marceau's cool, refined beauty is exactly the kind of woman that great love novels are written for. The location is authentic and scenes unforgettable. Overall a refreshing change from many of today's movies.  "},{"Title":"An Abridged abridgement of Tolstoy.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think perhaps some novels just do not work onscreen. Invariably when people set to adapt Anna on the big screen it gets turned into a period-piece overblown soap-opera esque love story. While it is true the passionate, doomed relationship between Anna and Vronksy is  the central figure...it is by no means the ONLY story nor is the fact that they are in love the point.The point of the novel is a critique of society via the problem of Anna and Vronsky's affair;  the search for God, Self and meaning in ones life via Levin and Kitty, to a lesser extent; the function of family via the study of Levin's household, the Karenins, the Oblonsky's  the Scherbatsky's and to a lesser extent the Vronsky's(excepting of course Anna and Alexei et all). And as a final issue there how to achieve and keep personal happiness(internally and via personal relationships) and at what cost via Anna, Vronsky,  Levin achieve or try to acheive it. Now granted...thats ALOT to somehow show and convey on film..the intense psychologicl, philosphical, moral and religious  views that are raised in the novel..and I havent seen a film yet to do it justice. Even the 'classic' film version featuring Garbo is a wash imo as it takes te common-denominator 'soap opera' route.But, even with all this, I still went out and bought, sight unseen, the latest film version of AK. And sigh...I was still dissapointed. Once again, the base points are covered, and also so half-assed attempt to show Levin's struggle with his inner-self is thrown in..but really, this film is like puff pastry- pretty to look at and satisfying..but in an empty shallow way that leaves you hungry after an hour. As a visual spectacle the film is great- the costumes and sets are great..and give you a real sense of what life was like for memebers of a certain tax bracket in turn-of-the-19th-century Moscow and St. Petersburg. And cinematography is wonderful.very lively colors, very exuberant. But, all that is ruined once the characters open their mouths. Not that the dialogue was truly bad or stilted..but the film just felt glossed over..as if the movie wanted only to get from A-B, leaving the viewer with the feeling of connect-the-dots  as the scenes were very disjointed and thrown together.  And once again, the bare bones are covered..the Big Love affair of Anna and Vronsky..the scorned husband, the kid and a few tidbits thrown the Levin...if Tolstoy's novel is a feast the film leaves you famished.All in all...as a movie its a 5...and that is only for the technical aspects...as an adaptation of Tolkein...a 1, and thats only b/c they got the characters names right.  My advice If you have read the novel,watch it with the volume off and just look at the purdy pictures . If you havent read the novel, rent it see it once, then read the book. "},{"Title":"A poor telling of an oft told tale.","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anna Karenina, (circa 1997) is a lavish abbreviated retelling of the Tolstoy classic which tries to do too much with too little time. The capable cast seems to have mostly British accents (except for Marceau's rather obvious French undertone) which seem out of place in a film shot and set in Russia. This leap-frogging flick does resound with the import of one maxim If you can't do it right, don't do it at all. "},{"Title":"Superior","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This adaptation of the film is FAR superior to the 2012 version with Keira Knightley. If you're reading this and want to know which version you should watch, do pick this one. The stylization of the other film is just inappropriate for the subject matter. It makes the film look like a joke in comparison. Sophie Marceau is phenomenal as Anna Karenina. Keira Knightley? She doesn't capture the heartbreak as well as Sophie does, in my opinion. It saddens me to think that people will see that version and not this one. Just putting that out there. P.S. Why does IMDb force one to write ten lines? They are also attempting to correct misspellings. If I spell something wrong, it's meant to be. Fascists. "},{"Title":"On the whole, a fantastic adaptation of a great novel!","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I felt compelled to create an IMDb account and write this review after reading some of the negative reviews that exist for this movie. First of all, let me say that this movie is underrated on IMDb. It should have a rating of at least a 7.0. At the time of this review, this movie has a lower rating than Star Wars I Phantom Menace. Come on people, that's an outrage! I feel an 8.0 is a solid and reasonable rating when you compare this film to most of the movies that are overrated on this site. Now to the bulk of the review.First of all, I think most people would agree that the film is visually stunning. Everything from the costumes, to the landscapes, to the buildings, all of it is eye candy. While this is only one aspect of the film, I think it is an important one because the visuals help set the right tone and romantic atmosphere that is found in the novel. The visuals themselves are enough reason to see this film, even if you know nothing about the story or don't care for it.Secondly, the performances by Sophie Marceau, Sean Bean, and the rest of the cast were superb. There was only one major issue with the acting in my opinion.I wasn't fond of how Stepan (Stiva) was portrayed in the movie. The actor who played him was too dull and flat. In the novel, Stepan is supposed to be charming and sort of opposite to Levin in personality. Other than that, I found everyone to be excellent in their roles. Contrary to what you may think after reading some of the negative reviews, Sophie Marceau was a wonderful Anna. As a previous review stated, I think her French accent was positive and enhanced her performance. After all, in the novel it says that Anna and Vronsky spoke French with each other most of the time. Secondly, I found that both her and Sean Bean made the affair between Anna and Vronsky credible, believable, and every bit dramatic as it is in the novel. Some have complained that Sophie did not capture Anna's simplicity or elegance, but this is just outright wrong. Sean Bean, despite not having the mustache, played Vronsky well. As a guy, I generally hate love scenes in films because the lines are so cheesy and the actors/actresses have no chemistry. While some of the things Vronsky says in the movie/and the novel may seem cheesy and overly dramatic, Sean Bean's delivery is perfect and not overly done. On the whole, Sophie Marceau and Sean Bean had great chemistry in this film. Alfred Molina and Mia Kirshner were great as Levin and Kitty, although I thought her accent was a little weird and out of place.Lastly, the director did a really good job of selecting appropriate scenes and making them fit together to do justice to the novel. As with any other film based off a long novel, much had to be cut out. However, all the important scenes that compromise the essence of the many themes in the novel were all present. With that being said, the movie still had its flaws. For example, I did not like the few narrations that were placed in the film and thought they were unnecessary and detracted from the film's flow. Maybe this is because I watched the film right after finishing the book for the second time, so the plot was fresh in my head. The film also had a few oddball scenes that were not done well, such as in the beginning with the conversation between Dolly and Anna. For me, this whole scene seemed wrong because of how they changed Anna's lines. However, on the whole most of the scenes were not only faithful to the novel, but due to the wonderful visuals and performances, brought it to life.On the whole, I wasn't expecting much from this film. I thought it was going to be a crummy Hollywood version of one of my favorite novels and wasn't expecting much from Sophie Marceau or Sean Bean. While there were some of these Hollywood style elements, ( just look at the waltz they had in the movie) the movie overall was surprisingly refreshing and well done. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Sophie Marceau at her prime but the film belongs to James Fox","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I earn the book in my 21's birthsday and having seen the classic version with Diva Greta Garbo,I've got curious to see this version starring one of my favorite actressSophie Marceau.She is really at the prime of her beautty and her talent and Sean Bean is more talented the usual.But all that is forgotten When appeared in the screen the face of James Fox playing my favorite characterthe mixture of cold and beautty Karenin.I've seen James in a lot of other films like The Remains Of The Day A Passage To India and Greystoke but in this film he is really in his peak playing the more cynical,cold,sinister and beautiful Karenin I've ever seen.8 out of 10 to the film 100 out of 10 to James Fox. "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed version with a great score but why Sean Bean?","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the better versions of Anna Karenina. It's not too old or too new. It's hard to watch the slightly cheap BBC versions or the old black and white Hollywood versions. It is modern enough to have a fresh feel and great on location filming. It's also not too long. The score is wonderful - Tchaikovsky.Sophie Marceau looks beautiful and tragic. Her acting is good too although her accent isn't Russian. Supporting cast are all good including Alfred Molina.The main problem is Sean Bean was a strange choice. He doesn't look Russian and he isn't dashing enough. He's more the villain with his cruel look.It is interesting to compare this with the Jacqueline Bisset and Christopher Reeve version. I think this one is better overall. "},{"Title":"Good, but the relationship does not work","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In general I liked this movie very much. It has a very authentic atmosphere and is the only movie version of Anna Karenina that actually follows the point of view of the book. The setting is amazing and the costumes are brilliant. The actors are great Karenin - James Fox is amazing. I've always had a weak spot for Sean Bean as well and I think (although in his usual roles he is more of a rogue) he carries off the part of the count rather well. When I said the actors are great however, that does not stretch to Marceau. She's just not good as Anna Karenina. And, more important, the relationship between Wronsky and Anna does not work - I don't know, but the acting between those two could not have been worse if the actors actually despised each other. And the relationship has no development. The audience does not even get an idea what their relationship is about - there is no tension between them. Anna Karenina seems to be more hysterical than anything else. To Summarize Yes, this movie is worth seeing. It is a wonderful story, told in a great setting with a lot of good actors. Just ignore the performance of Marceau. "},{"Title":"The usual story but with a vaginal hemorrhage bonus!","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To think this story has been filmed probably most often of all the Russian novels and that all the preceding versions managed to preserve their dignity while never quite getting to the point of the original novel... And then, this little bit of fluff had to come along. I caught this on Canadian Bravo tonight and what a disappointment. It strictly adheres to the European school of literary-adaptations-as-a-series-of-medical-emergencies-and-body fluids-melodrama. Sophie Marceau is no Greta Garbo or Russian grande bourgeoise, Lord knows. But would it be too much to ask for her to keep her facial features from contorting into a very anachronistic crack addict's at the slightest hint of drama? And the scene of her violent vaginal hemorrhage is definitely not in the novel but must have seemed de rigueur for the producers' sensibilities childbirth was such an ordeal in those barbaric times, don't you know - we just had to show it... The music is by Tchaikowsky, Sean Bean is the sexiest man alive even when forced to wear clothes, the sets and costumes are by God, but the script is strictly Extreme Harlequin. As my late mother wisely used to say about most modern pap of this type Ils font exprs pour nous coeurer! "},{"Title":"Nice backdrop, shame about the acting","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The BBC made a serial of this in the 70's and despite the lack of funding that went into that series, they pulled it off rather well. So finally about the iron curtain had been taken down, the filmmakers could use the best scenery Russia had to offer including the Romanov palace. And you would have thought Sean Bean in a 'Sharpe' style uniform would have made it a certain winner. Afraid not. This is a story of passion and romance and forbidden love, one where you feel for the characters, get entwined with them and almost beg them to stop whilst wishing they could get away with there illicit affair. This 1997 version, I felt no connection to the characters and couldn't really care less about the 2 dimensional performance. If I had bothered to watch it to the end, instead of hanging on the edge of the seat to stop Anna from jumping on the rail tracks, I probably would have volunteers to give her a push. A wonderful Russian tragic love story, though the only tragedy here being this lot bothered to make it. "}{"Title":"Nice time killer","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watched this because I had never read the book nor seen any theatrical version. Was basically to familiarize myself with the story (Even though I knew the ending from watching Micki and Maude) The story was a great one, but this film was nothing to write home about. The acting was so-so and I really felt nothing for the characters due to this. I'm not sorry I watched it though. Is a nice little time waster....if you have the time....and don't want to read a Tolstoy novel...I hear they are long. "},{"Title":"Cliffs Notes were never better","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   I watched this movie after having just read the novel again, because I was told that it was very faithful.  After seeing it, I have to agree that it was very faithful to the original novel, even if certain parts were breezed over or even eliminated in the movie version.  I was especially happy to see Levin, who I consider to be the character with the most complexity (perhaps because, as the film points out - and perhaps a little too heavy-handedly - he was based on Tolstoy himself,) to be the narrator.  But I found the treatment of Levin in particular to be completely breezed over.  Little more than a footnote in this production, Levin's book - which was one of the strongest forces behind the creation of Anna Karenina - was eliminated.  But overall, this is possibly the most visually stunning movie I've seen in some time.  Having watched Eyes Wide Shut just the day before I drew amazing parallels in the cinematography.  Make no mistake about it, this is a great movie for anyone seeking an introduction to Russian literature. "},{"Title":"I have never seen a more unsettling death scene","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie probably nine years ago, and although I have read the book, the scene of her death- and showing her body, the blackened lips, open, that horrible expression on her face... it killed the entire story for me. It overshadowed the characters, the love, the passion, the obsession, everything. Although the acting, music, cinematography, set design, the costumes-- everything was quite close the ambiance I felt in the novel, that last scene just put an enormous cloud. I firmly believe that our modern-day obsession with the gruesome took over the director and screenwriter and they turned a classic tragedy into roadkill. It is an unfortunate use of classic literature, contemporary fine actors and modern mediocrity. "},{"Title":"AWFUL JUST PLAN AWFUL!","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is really awful. The only reason I watched it was because of Sean Bean. I never seen him play a romantic role before. He was excellant in this movie. Shopie Marceau (The world is not enough) was not the right choice for the role of Anna. Alfred Molina ( Not with out my daughter) and Mia Kirshner ( Not another teen movie) was a compleate waste. I very much liked the one with Christopher Reeve and Jacquline Bisset. I hoped this movie would be just like the old one. I love Sean Bean in this but the rest stink. Watch the one with Reeve and Bisset it's way much better than this one. "}]