[{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"44 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am sure many people who rated this poorly would rate Bad Boys a phenomenal work of art. This movie, if watched with more than just an eye for special effects, tells the story of people finding themselves and becoming a family of sorts. The world in which we live has far too little depth of character. Yes the movie was condensed in a few parts but unless you intended it to be a 3 month long movie some parts had to wind up on the cutting floor as one poor soul commented. People just watch movies nowadays rather than live them, understand them, try to find out what the message was. This movie showed soul, it moves me every time I watch it. "},{"Title":"Not one of Ridley Scott's best, but it deserved better","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  With masterpieces like Alien, Blade Runner and the underrated, but superb, 1492 Conquest of Paradise, I am quite a big Ridley Scott fan. White Squall is something of a let down in comparison, but it certainly deserved more than a measly $10 million US gross at the box office. As you would expect from a Scott film it boasts his trademark lavish production quality and stunning photography. The sequences at sea at some of the most spectacular ever filmed as Scott revels in the rolling waves and lurching ship, convey the ferociousness at sea, even in fairly calm conditions like no other film I can recall. The story however is less successful and is essentially (and unusually unoriginal for a Scott movie) a Dead Poets' Society at sea, as a motley crew of young boys, played by a talented and convincing set youngsters, do a lot of growing during the course of the voyage under the watchful eye of an Ahab-esque but eventually sympathetic Jeff Bridges. The final scene most definitely resembles that of Dead Poets' Society. (Captain. My Captain). However the film as a whole never bores and makes for compulsive viewing at times particularly the superb storm of the title, that is both moving as well technical tour de force. "},{"Title":"Dramatic come of age story by Ridley Scott","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  White SquallA group of boys joins a sailing vessel to finish their last year of High school on board of the Albatross. They have to learn to work together and act as a team, which at first, is not as easy as it may seem. As time goes by they really become one group and get very close.This plot may not be to original, and could be stereotyped as cliche. However, as the story unfolds, it still stays fun too watch and jeff bridges as the bold sailor, hard but fair, trying to make men out of different kind of boys, each one coping with his own problems, keeps you interested.Though (for some people too) dramatic, me and my girlfriend really enjoyed this movie. I can imagine some people having difficulties with the dosis of emotion in this pic. It didn't bother me, i like it when it's well proportioned and not too cliche, except for maybe the final scene, in my eyes White Squall lives up to this.I think this is an enjoyable movie, when you're just lying back on the couch relaxing and let it flow over you. No difficult story, but it has great shots and pretty good acting and most of the characters are reasonably developed.7,5 (for making us cry) "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I love this film, it about a bunch of boys who either get sent on this ship to get disciplined by their parents or some just choose to escape their lives, They take it for granted tho, they don't realise how much hard work it will be. The ship and their captain take them on a journey, a journey that will probably change their lives forever, facing their fears and coming to grips with their lives, they learn a lot and pull together as a team. A truly moving story and another great film by Ridley Scott. From struggles to strengths, this is an inspiring film to watch with many good actors, Jeff bridges is really good for this role playing a tough, wise teacher for the boys. I love this as it is based on a true story, it makes it even more moving. "},{"Title":"Inspirational and touching","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well-done movie, with inspirational message, and a hopeful, touching finale.Jeff Bridges is a sea captain, owner and manager of a sea-going school-ship for boys. He runs the school with somewhat of an iron fist, while also allowing the boys room to grow to be men. It is this quality that will later cause him trouble. He also has no patience for fools, or boys trying to deal with their resentment of Daddy. In one memorable scene, he banishes a dangerously troubled boy who spears a dolphin for no other reason than he is confused and angry. It is this banishment which appears to be the thing to finally reach this boy, and he will later bravely shake off his father's influence and stand up for his captain and shipmates.Most of the movie traces their travels, studies and experiences in exotic ports. Finally, they run into a severe storm, some kind of meteorological anomaly, which devastates the boat, and takes the lives of some of the boys, and Bridges's wife. The scene of Bridges seeing his wife, alive, through the skylight of the sinking ship, powerless to help or rescue her, is excruciating and memorable.Bridges is taken to a court of inquiry to determine his responsibility in the loss of lives. It is during this courtroom drama that the boys of the school stand up and become the men Bridges' guided them to be.Generally, men will get this movie, with it's subtle references to choosing and traveling your own path, making choices of honor, being responsible for your actions, being brave and standing for whats right, no matter what. A scene where they are boarded by Cuban sailors drives this home to the boys very effectively.A surprisingly effective, touching movie, with solid performances all around. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie for me is incredible! Since I like Sea and sailing boats a lot this movie is just right movie for me (like Master And Commander with Russel Crowe)and I believe for many others who likes Sea and sailing. This movie presents happy and sad story at the same time. I am delighted with characters of boys and others, with they relationship and killing the dolphin was something terrible. Everyone of boys has own big problems and we can describe that on the way what Chuck said Some of us are here for discipline, some for escape. And the rest don't even know why. I'm not sure where I fit in, but I can see a small piece of myself in each of them. I think I'll have friends here, and I hope this will be home. Very beautiful what he said, right? Ohh yes, and sound effects in movie are excellent in my opinion. I was enjoying the movie with great pleasure! "},{"Title":"A few good perfectly stormy A&F models","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, maybe it isn't that bad. Some moments are touching, others genuinely harrowing. And Jeff Bridges always comes up with something surprising. But, true story though it may be, White Squall is overwhelmed by its obvious schematic and Ridley Scott's signature gloss. Each young crewmember has a stamped-on singular defect, Scott Wolf's tomcruisy precociousness is particularly grating, and for all the magnificent ocean scenery and blather about boys being forged into men, we're shown precious little of the day-to-day grunt/teamwork that's at the core of the whole business. Add to this the greatest assemblage of immaculate white t-shirts and bronzed, hairless torsos since Abercrombie met Fitch, and a potentially gritty, moving story lies trapped in amber. "},{"Title":"Well acted and often moving","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I quite agree that it is a Dead Poets Society set at sea. It is a mistake to classify it as an Action Movie. It's about building trust and group reliance with some action scenes. The development of mutual respect between the boys is quite believable The acting is excellent in all cases. As a Jeff Bridges fan, I was surprised I'd never heard of it before it appeared on late night TV. The last looks exchanged between the captain and his wife are about as good as they get. Not a really great movie but I found it well worthwhile as a non-fan of action movies.  "},{"Title":"Mediochre unless watched while half asleep","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched this film at 1200am last night (tuesday 15th Nov) as it was the best of a bad lot. With nothing else on the box I thought I'd give it a go. And how glad am I that I did? Slightly glad. But not desperately.To be honest I thought that it was a reasonable film; adventures on the high seas have to do something to become different from the rest. The use of a freak weather event may seem like an oceanic take on day after tomorrow, as I thought it would be reading a summary ahead of watching, but actually the weather took up a very short amount of time. A lot of this film was devoted to the rite of passage that the boys/ young men go through before they reach the white squall itself, and this allows for the typical moving goodbyes to trapped loved one as the ship sinks.This is just one of the reasons that I didn't give this a higher rating. The corny moments did make me squirm, and the moment when Frank (one of the young men) rings the ships bell in court sent the corn-o-meter off the chart and caused, to be honest, a feeling of an anticlimax. There was of course the sterling speech from our hero narrator, which we come to expect when a friend/mentor/good guy is up against a court, but the inclusion of the bell ringing did perhaps sway me towards an even lower rating before I reminded myself of the good moments of the film.There are some very believable performances all round, and I did especially like the old grizzly English teacher, with his insatiable love for his subject. Jeff Bridges does give a good performance and the young narrator, Scott Wolf (did anyone else think he looked a little bit like a very young Tom Cruise) did a good job as well.All in all, it's a good film to be watching at 12 o'clock at night, but it does sink into mediocrity as soon as dawn breaks and you can find something worth watching. Not a must see, but not awful by any accounts. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" White Squall came as a surprise to me. i watched it in marine ecology. before the movie began, i had expected a movie that would be as boring as National Geographic (no offense) and sat with a pen poised to write down character names, roles, and admirable qualities. but when the movie started up, i thought oh my gosh. a movie ill be able to sit through! it has people i know, a gripping tale, and (at the expense of sounding shallow) hot guys. i absolutely loved the movie. it really put the ocean in perspective for me. wen i wound up with marine ecology on my class schedule, i moaned, because I'm not an ocean person, and because i had signed up for chemistry. but now i am enjoying myself in this class, and find the work no extra burden. the movie was absolutely phenomenal. thats all i can say. to teachers all over the globe--show the movie to your students, i guarantee that the buff jock sitting in the corner throwing around a football will get blubbery, and the preppy girl with pounds of make up will not complain at runny mascara. "}{"Title":"the weather started getting rough, the tiny ship was tossed...","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I would say that White Squall deserves more credit than it got when it was released. Portraying several young men and their captain (Jeff Bridges) going sailing and encountering a devastating storm, the movie really holds you. Never getting preachy about friendship and never turning into a silly action flick, it's a movie that knows how to tell a story. Another good addition to Ridley Scott's filmography. And that one scene with the Dutch school girl...hubba hubba! On another note, this movie was my introduction to Ryan Phillippe, who plays one of the young men (although his name didn't enter my vocabulary until I saw I Know What You Did Last Summer). Also starring are John Savage, Jeremy Sisto (Billy on Six Feet Under), Ethan Embry and Zeljko Ivanek. Certainly worth seeing.I have to admit, I would never want to go sailing. Too many bad things seem to happen. "},{"Title":"A well-produced and directed film of a true story","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film on TV for the first time last week.  Although the story line was a little weak, the  film sequences at sea  were excellent, particularly the final storm (white squall) in which the boy actors portrayed the reality of the tragedy.Jeff Bridges gave a good performance as the captain whose task was to instil discipline and develop the characters of the boys in his charge.  However, some members of the crew were miscast.I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Always makes me cry.","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie.  It is one of the saddest I have ever seen.  Whenever I need a good cry, I watch this one.  This role of Gil is one of Ryan Phillippe's best so far.  Scott Wolf was wonderfully intense in it too as Chuck.  Most of the other men actors were wonderful in their roles also. Jeff Bridges' presence and all-knowing character truly completes the movie. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!! "},{"Title":"could've been corny and preachy but is actually rousing and tough and formidably directed","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" White Squall is based on a true story; ultimately tragic but also of the 'inspiring' sort we get often at the movies. It could've been the kind of corny 'this is what I learned and now I'm blah blah' kind of storytelling that gets excruciating after a while in Hollywood movies. Apparently, thankfully, Ridley Scott knew this and took on White Squall as a challenge take a character ensemble, the kind of 'male camaraderie' picture that with a few alterations (i.e. reduce some sexual content) could have been produced in the 50s or 60s with a Burt Lancaster or other as the lead, and make it mostly tough and sentimental only in that rugged John Ford sort of sensibility. He succeeded admirably as his film is what it wants to be, which is surprising considering the it's Dead Poets Society at sea criticisms I had read online. It's fairly old-fashioned in some ways, but its presented in all the ways that matter.What's also impressive is seeing Scott attempt an ensemble based around character and, up until the last quarter of the picture, not really based on plot. He's done other pictures that have been ensembles, in fact a lot of them, but mostly they're wrapped around the story as it unfolds. In White Squall a lot of things happen, and characters come and go and lessons are learned and there are even a few tears, but it's based around character and it's fascinating to see Scott work with this nearly loose structure. Certainly his cast is a big help, as Jeff Bridges makes an equally formidable lead as the Skipper of the Albatross, the ship for a group of young men going for many months out to sea to become men, or rather take the SATs and become a stronger community on a ship. While we only see snippets of how excellent he can be as an actor throughout until the final agonizing scenes during and after the ship wreck, the rest of the cast holds up just as well (Scott Wolf, Balthazar Getty, Ethan Embry, a really good Jeremy Sisto in an unpredictable 'rich kid' role, and John Savage as the older 'intellectual' type).It goes without saying sometimes White Squall does run into some hokey or just some territory that is almost put in as an intentional INSPIRATION scene (in caps), like when the boys are at the remote island and run around up the hill to sign that buried book. Yet it's not what doesn't work but what does that makes the film impressive, and it holds up extremely well against its counterparts that don't have a keen eye for the facts in the story as well as making the characters not simply cardboard cut-outs. It's pretty conventional, but in the finest way imaginable, and has a pretty amazing climax out at sea with the title event (maybe not Perfect Storm but without computers all the more impressive). "},{"Title":"Over-acted, heavy-handed, two-dimensional","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  We all know that Ridley Scott's standard visual signature is of fabric caught in the wind and so this film must be his ultimate dream. It is set on board a sailing ship and we are treated to many shots of the wind filling the ship's sails. Sadly, like the sails, the film as a whole is rather over-blown. The plot revolves around a dozen or so spoilt little rich brats spending a summer on a sailing ship under the tutelage of martinet Jeff Bridges, whose job is seemingly to make them confront their fears and emotional turmoils. And by god, they have emotional turmoils aplenty. Each teenaged boy has an easily identifiable trauma to deal with one kid wets himself (literally!) at the thought of heights, one has dyslexia and is thus at war with everyone, one hates his father etc etc. The central brat is a budding writer and he is the 15 year old who, towards the end of the film, claims that I still don't know who I am... But then who does at 15?All the troubled lads - some of them virtually certifiable - spend lots of time losing their tempers, fighting with each other and then, once they realise how unreasonably they have behaved, they immediately burst into cathartic tears, hug everyone in sight and are one step closer to spiritual enlightenment and manhood. For me this is the film's downfall.White Squall is based on a true story. Jeff Bridges plays the ship's skipper who, during the Sixties, took a boat-load of teenaged lads on a summer's voyage around the Caribbean, only to have the ship sink in the eponymous storm, with the loss of life. The potential is there for a great action film with plenty to say about responsiblity and personal growth but sadly Ridley Scott over-inflates the human interaction to Jerry Springer-sized proportions.At least Jeff Bridges is reliable as always. He must be one of the most underrated yet outstanding actors there is. At least, I thought, Jeff won't start blubbing at the drop of a hat. Sadly, in the final scene (and watch out for it, the bell ringing is pure ham!), he succumbs to the director's dictates and has a group-sob with the surviving members of the lachrymous brats. D'oh!Plus points are Jeff Bridges, the ship and the photography. Minus points are the rest of the actors and the script. Still, worse things have happened at sea... "},{"Title":"Another Jeff Bridges movie","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I had never heard too much about this movie.  I wasn't sure if I should watch it. But based on Jeff Bridges being in it I decided to take a look This DVD was about unruly boys becoming men and standing together through thick and thin.  And how they came to face the turbulent 60's Bridges role as Captain Christopher 'Skipper' Sheldon made me remember that he is one of our premier actors today If you like adventures on the high seas films you will like this one  "},{"Title":"It's hard to create a compelling character story with such badly written characters","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" What happens when you throw together too many uninteresting characters and try to make something way more dramatic than it needs to be. You get Ridley Scott's White Squall. This film is based on a true story from 1960 when a group of schoolboys took to the open seas to learn about discipline and becoming a man. The ship is called the Albatross and the captain is the hard boiled Christopher Sheldon, played by Jeff Bridges. The boys learn about what it takes to become a man and the self discipline needed to be an honorable and respected individual. But it is a tragic storm that teaches them some difficult lessons about life and death.This film is, for the most part, a character driven story. This is a real problem when you could care less about any of the characters. Character with daddy issues. Check. Macho man who can't read or write. Check. Highly intelligent character that, despite all his book smarts, still has a lot to learn. Check. One dimensional narrator. Check. The list goes on, but my point is that this film has all the necessary stereotypes for your most typical coming of age story. Thus this film permits nothing new or interesting. Another problem could be that there are just too many characters. The film tries to develop all of the boys and they are subsequently underdeveloped. You don't have enough time or information to develop a connection with any one character and so everything that happens with these boys is incredibly uninteresting. There is also a very flat dynamic between characters. They are all pretty white boys that come from upper class American families making the characters devoid of any kind of diversity.The biggest issue here is that the film truly believes it possesses everything I just said it didn't have. It tries so hard to be a gripping drama but its character development completely missed the mark, making all of these dramatic scenes silly and moronic. I could care less about one boys success at learning how to read and write from the help of two other boys because his character is obnoxious, underdeveloped, and flat. Yet the film tries so hard to elicit an emotional response here that I want to ignore it even further.Aesthetically this film is a different story. Ridley Scott is in no way a bad director, it just seems like he had a serious string of duds post Blade Runner. He makes the most out of White Squall with an epic scale ocean scope. The climactic scene of the film is the terrible storm that hits the Albatross and Scott shoots this scene magnificently. He manages to make this the only truly dramatic moment of the film and the scene manages to be as riveting as is possible for such a lackluster film. In a way this makes the film more of a disappointment. If I had cared more about the film before the epic storm scene, this scene would have been more powerful than it already was. It really makes me wish more effort had been put into the first two thirds of the film because the last third, even after the storm scene, is pretty decent. The film also concludes very well, making the film a would be satisfying experience.White Squall is an overall mediocre cinematic experience. Not nearly enough effort was put into developing the array of characters who were the most important focus of this film. Ridley Scott directs as well as he can for such a poor script, but it doesn't save White Squall from being a major disappointment. "},{"Title":"I liked the movie a lot","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Probably, many will say that movie was nothing special, as I already read such comments, but in my opinion the movie was great. As I am a sensitive person, I was very touched by the final scenes, probably if I were younger, I would let my tears free. I was really deeply touched by the death of Gil Martin, as I sympathized him most, not only because I liked his play most, but also because I like the actor himself a lot - Ryan Phillippe. I felt very miserable to find that exactly my favorite actor and character in the movie was the one to drawn in the storm. I wish someone else to drawn instead of him, or a happy end of the movie, but unfortunately nobody asked for my opinion. Nevertheless I liked the movie a lot and that is why I voted 10 for it. "},{"Title":"Solid, entertaining movie up until the very end","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie sans the ending about a dozen times, and just recently caught the final 25 minutes.  I really enjoy this movie  the build-up of characters and plot from the beginning up to the intense storm that wreaked havoc for the boat and its members on-board was moving and believable. There's nothing you can do but have sympathy for the skipper, played extremely well by Jeff Bridges (by the way, if you like him in this one, you'll love him in 'The Big Lebowski').  He's a fair, friendly but stern man who teaches his crew of spoiled teenage brats discipline and responsibility on a demanding voyage through the Caribbean.  Jeff Bridges' character loses not only members of his crew but also his wife in the storm and shows convincing emotion to it all.  The boys are shaped into respectable young men by the situations they face together and lessons they learn while on and off the boat.  Even the son of an aristocrat who is kicked off for killing a dolphin comes around in the end court room scene to show his loyalty.  But it's this final scene that leaves me disappointed.  I've been entertained with the movie every time I've seen it up until the ending.  The parents who lost their sons out at sea look for answers and point blame at the skipper in this final scene.  It is filled with melodrama and overacting, particularly by the lead boy in the film, Scott Wolf.  He plays a fifteen year old who has gone through a traumatic experience and is there along with the rest of the surviving crew to show support to their skipper and some even to testify.  He gives a monologue to the entire court room about how accidents do occur, the skipper is not at fault, and that everyone aboard the ship made a pact of unity, blah blah blah, real sappy stuff that continues for about 5 minutes.  And it all ends with a great big group hug with Jeff Bridges in the center with tears streaming down his face.  All this melodramatic nonsense bothered me, but I was pleasantly surprised to see the end of the movie take a turn with more development in the plot. After never having seen anything past the ship wreck, I wasn't expecting to see the skipper on trial to save his boating license.  I kind of just guessed a sad and emotional ending soon after the White Squall hit and destroyed everything.  But after being rescued and brought back home, the excitement picked up again and a new issue emerged.  It was nice to see some story going on off the boat, but I would of rather watched pirates of the Caribbean come through and show no mercy, at least then we would of seen really what these little snobs were made of. "},{"Title":"Good! Embrace the style and enjoy this gem of a 'sleeper'!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For at least 3 years I picked up this film at our local video store - and passed it up, groaning to myself that I was not interested in seeing a family style flick about a group of adolescents. Getting desperate to find a video one evening, I decided to take a chance. My wife and I really did enjoy this movie! Good solid acting, acceptable script, and an interesting story that happens to be true.     If you are so addicted to the usual action or sex film, then maybe you will not like this film. But if you can appreciate good wholesome qualities, then this flick should be tried. The suspense is quite good - better than I expected, and the special effects are excellent. "}{"Title":"Water","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Some things are inherently cinematic explosions/fireworks, cars, architecture... and  water.Water is a challenge though. Some projects are built around the opportunities that water  provides `Perfect Storm,' `Master and Commander,' `Hard Rain,' `What Dreams May  Come...' and this.I resaw this today because Peter Weir's project was so conventional and ordinary, I  wanted to remind myself how Ridley did it. This is an overly long, too heavily storied  movie. But the shipboard sequences are pretty masterful. Ridley really understands the  energy of the sea and how it builds architecture. See it for this (and the Dutch  schoolgirls).Except for the insipid `find-yourself' wrapper, this is a fine water film.I'm particularly interested in Scott compared to Weir. Weir made possibly the most  terrifying moments of transportation disaster with this very same actor in `Fearless.' It  was a relentless buildup with a metaphysical tinkle. This is wholly different,  architecturally based. All the shipboard shots, interior and exterior are framed with  reference to a plane of the ship, except when the ship begins to die.Then, notice that the left-right rhythm of the camera ceases.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"This is a message to any family still alive in any connection to albatrous","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ship wreck...Albatrous...this is my quest from desert plains...i bring you love..day drag.home.going.drifted..t he engine roared...and thunder...my body aches in the lighting..my passion my heart bleeds...i love ...i bring you love . dam chest have the sound! Emptiness the end ..fan..seeking these are the words i cant (ffisheye) see me in the end...the name has brought me broken dreams....bust down the salt...or she will snatch your soyl away...say...temple safe! For all..the sound of emptiness...your wreck i will not falter i will not fail..silk covered..the pressure fuel cell across consume me! In a cage pat the walls the cage.consume me fire burn threw me......please if anyone understands this contact me asap ..oldsoulyaee@gmail.com... . "},{"Title":"bogs down with the melodrama of the boys","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's 1960. Chuck Gieg (Scott Wolf) decides to attend school on sailing vessel Albatross instead of going to an Ivy League school. He joins other boys like rich kid Frank Beaumont (Jeremy Sisto), fearful Gil Martin (Ryan Phillippe) and Dean Preston (Eric Michael Cole) who struggles with school. The ship is run by skipper Sheldon (Jeff Bridges), his wife Dr. Alice Sheldon (Caroline Goodall) and McCrea (John Savage). The skipper intends to make the boys ship shape as they sail around in the Caribbeans.I don't really feel for any of the kids. There are just so many of them and everybody has their problems. It gets bog down with their melodrama. It's too long. Jeff Bridges is powerful. I wonder if the drama would be more compelling if the movie starts with the ship in the storm and then flash backs to the beginning. Around midway, the drama tries to pump up the tension but I never feel for them. The storm scenes look well made. "},{"Title":"A Voyage to Remember","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The two hours I spent on the couch, doing nothing other than watch White Squall, ignoring some tasks longing for my attention, didn't go to waste. I never thought this movie would turn out to be such a touching story of boys out in the sea, at best capturing the emotions of young men amidst the turbulence of the sea where they find inspiration from. Two hours of a movie is a lifetime voyage to remember. I couldn't agree more to those whose comments were focused on the technical side, because truly there are loopholes, so to speak, in many parts of the movie. But let's remember, it all boils down to how much effect it had on its audience, enough to sink its strong message of bondage and camaraderie, of convictions and disipline, of determination and strength of character -- on us. There couldn't be better option to take than embark on a voyage to find your way, your self. Surely, White Squall is a movie I would remember because it somehow gives definition to the voyage which I am taking now.To critics, don't be too hard on yourself. Just admit it you like the movie. (My rating 9 was not so much on the movie's technicality but on the gravity of its emotion which in no way is felt by the viewer. "},{"Title":"This is a really great movie!!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really thought this movie was really good. Although I have only seen it twice, I would recommend it to anyone who thinks their life is hard. The whole movie is great and the scenes are so realistic. It's almost like you are there with the crew and feel their every emotion. It makes you want to actually go out on the ocean and experience it. It really makes you think what life might be if you were out there with them. This is definitely one of Scott Wolf's greatest movies. I would insist on watching it with my girlfriends or an get-together or party. It could be thought of as a chick flick, but I don't think it is really a family movie, in that it does have some sex scenes in it. But still it is definitely on my top 10 favorite movie list!  "},{"Title":"A Great Movie! Warning contains spoilers!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Overall I thought this was a really good movie. My favorite character was Gil Martin who was played by the gorgeous Ryan Phillippe. I felt really sorry for this character, and thought that the captain (Jeff Bridges) was way too hard on him. I sobbed when Gil died in the storm. It was very sad. I give this movie a 10/10. "},{"Title":"White Squall was awesome!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER!!!!!!!!! I loved it! I cried when the ship went down. The movie built up the characters really well so you knew what they were going through and really liked or really hated them by the end. The cast was brilliantly put together.  "},{"Title":"amazingly done, ****!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When this movie first came out in 1996, I was only 9. I ended up seeing the movie when I was 10 when my mom bought it for just $5 at the movie store. It's now 2002, and ever since then I couldn't get my eyes off of it. I still try and watch it once a week. I've read reviews bashing the movie and undermining the actors who worked so brilliantly in this film.Scott Wolf, Jeff Bridges, Caroline Goodall, Balthazar Getty, Ethan Embry, Jason Marsden and Jeremy Sisto all had amazing roles. In 1960, the Albatross, a school ship which would sail halfway around the world and back, sets out for the adventure of a lifetime as these boys become real men and show the true test of courage.When a meteorlogical phenomenon takes the Albatross to hell and back, these men return home to find that the man who led them to survival would be at risk of loosing his boater's license. It is their job to make sure he can keep it, while keeping each other together.Everytime I see this movie, the 3rd time or the 200th time, I can't keep myself from crying. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who needs to curl up with an amazing story that will leave an impact on you for a long time to come. * * * *It all comes down to one thing. You can't run from the wind. You face the music, trim your sails and keep going. "},{"Title":"Good Film, but a little bit longer than needed","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really like this film, first the story was interesting, characters were some what interesting, very emotional at times and the theme I just loved. It just makes you feel for the characters. It also is just one of those movies that makes you feel good at the end, with high drama court scene. Ridley Scott, proves that a is one of the best directors out there. He just is very strong and unique visually. However on the down side I think, there where just a few boring scenes that needed to be removed or edited, because some time I felt like I was waiting for something to happen.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully made","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is emotional, thrilling, action packed, and even funny. The whole entire cast does a fantastic job and the special effects and scenery just had my eyes glued to the screen. Almost as good as Titanic! This movie is just plain Wonderful! "}{"Title":"There is nothing like it","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching the movie.  It's a movie with not only action and other b*llsh*t in it.  There really is a story in it.  I liked it very much because it made me think about a lot o)Just go see it and you'll understand. "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not one of my favorites, but I liked it. I really didn't like Scott Wolf, for some reason I never feel very attached to the characters he plays. But most of the other boys were great. I loved Ryan Phillipe, his character was so soft and vulnerable I always wanted to give him a hug. I liked the guy who played Dean Preston too, he did well. I was surprised to see the rich boy, who I knew as the overboard activist in the 60's TV thing. Fairly good, though there was some parts I could have done without, (including Scott Wolf's whole role) but if you like those coming of age stories, you might like it.  "},{"Title":"great flick","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie based on a true story. The imagery is awesome in this movie and is a must see for all movie fans. This is one of those movies that i had to buy i highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Very intense!","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was very good. Scott Wof was great. It made me cry.  "},{"Title":"An honest look at the past","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ridley is an interesting director for one simple reason, he tells the story as it is. He doesn't try and reinterpret the story. This worked brilliantly for Alien and Black Hawk down. With white squall we see America looking at its 1960s self without trying to dress it up and find the cool.Based on a true story it tells about a school ship sailing around the Caribbean. It deals with many issues about this boys, who happen to live in the 1960s. The story involves personal triumph as the boys learn how to become a team. There is a also tragedy when the ship is caught in a sudden storm.Ultimately a little stilted, but that is the appeal. A lazy Sunday afternoon movie "},{"Title":"Beautiful...","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The imagery in this movie was fantastic. I can even remember the scenery from the first time I watched it when I was a kid. This movie made me love the ocean and have a desire for adventure. Watching it again, I can see the story behind the moving pictures. Very well done in my opinion. Sometimes living in this world is the hardest, and I think that was the message they were trying to create, which came across well.If you have the tension span greater than a two-year-old, then I would recommend this movie. No, it is not the big action blockbuster, but it is a gem of a movie that deserves more credit than it gets.  "},{"Title":"Tragic Bittersweet Tale of Friendship and Growing Up","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is Ridley Scott's unwanted great film.   Around the time this was released it was not long after when GI Jane was made which was just the kind of film you have at the bottom of your shoe where White Squall was a very meaningful film and was Dead Poet's Society at sea.   A lot of unknown actors had a big part to play in White Squall. You had Scott Wolf,  Ryan Philippe and also Baltazar Getty who was well known anyway but this added to his list of very good films.   Jeff Bridges was not miss cast in the slightest as is Jon Savage.   Young men with problems in their own family life are all sent on an educational trip around the world in the aim they try and work together as a team but more important as sailors at sea.   They bond, each main teen character has a problem in their life whether it be frank who can't stand to be around his father, Chuck who doesn't know who he is, Dean who can't read or write and Gil who cannot let the death of his brother escape his past.   Jeff Bridges is the ships captain who shows no weakness to his boys.   He plays the hard ass very well and sometimes becomes quite irritating by doing so.   Ridley Scott likes to make epics whether they be in Space, in the Future this is his sea epic apart from 1492 of course but he does it with such elegance and grace and manages to create a bittersweet and tragic tale of friendship and coming together as a team. The sinking of the ship is very well choreographed and missed out on Oscars for Jeff Bridges who I can fairly say have never seen a bad film of his. One film that is not brought up when talking of Ridley Scott but should. "},{"Title":"Ridley Scott does it again, a beautiful movie","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so beautifully shot, you could enjoy it for the direction alone.  It also has the compelling true story of a ocean sailing school for high school boys.  It's a bit of a Dead Poet's Society goes to sea, but it stands well on its own.  Jeff Bridges turns in another great performance as the captain of the ship.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Sob story","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was based on true events that must have been horrifying and very traumatic for those involved. Unfortunately, like so many times before, Hollywood has turned it into a stereotypical and predictable sob story. They could have done so much more of this amazing story. "},{"Title":"Life, Death and growing up at Sea.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  An under-rated movie. An excellent cast. An amazing story of one way for young men to grow and mature- if you survive. One of the best adaptations of a true story I have ever seen. Very emotional to watch the Squall and the final Court scenes. It made me research the story after seeing it. Would not hesitate to see it again.   "}{"Title":"Excellent Under-rated Movie","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The fact that this is based on a true story makes it all the more amazing. This character driven piece is extremely poignant and well-done from the technical aspects of the cinematography and special effects to the excellent direction and ensemble acting by the whole cast.The ever talented Jeff Bridges, who amazingly gets better as he gets older, is terrific in an intensely contained role as Captain Christopher Skipper Sheldon. Virtually all the young actors are terrific and offer us very textured, characters with full inner-lives. They were an amazing young ensemble who obviously bonded together in this film. These young men really make the film work. Also turing in fine performances as their teachers are Carolyn Goodall, John Savage and Julio Oscar Mechoso. David Selby and Zeljko Ivanek are also quite good in in two antagonist roles.The story-line is of course a coming-of-age film at a time when the world was really changing in the early 1960's and presents a microcosmic view of the radical change between the generations that so marked this decade. The parents are depicted as upwardly mobile, post-depression/WW2 folk who are striving for material success and gain while putting the same hopes in their children. The irony is that the parents' pressures cause most of these young men to feel overwhelmed by their parents' expectations and in turn they feel ignored for who they really are. Between the parents and the young men are the instructors on the school/ship the Albatross. In their own unique ways these teachers present an environment where these young men are challenged to find themselves as individuals entering adulthood. to re-qain their innate excitement for learning and above all-- the recognition that in the ship of life we are all interconnected and need to and can learn to work together. Just as a ship functions in unity, so we learn to realize the same in life. We also learn the delicate balance between the rites of the individual and our need for one another. Bridge's Sheldon is a man driven above all to accomplish these goals by challenging these young men to face their fears. This is so even against the judgment of his wife and fellow-instructors. But Sheldon's hard-line eventually wins the love and respect of his young students even those he drives the hardest.This is a fine, fine film and deserved much more recognition than it received. It seems quite often these days that when films like this are made that the tone is seen it; it's been done before and better. Ironic to me is that this take is so when it comes to films that have a story and some substance. Ironically many of these same critics will applaud some of the formula action or horror films that seem to come out of a cookie cutter. The irony here is that this story was a based on somethng that actually happened and people like Sheldon and the rest of the teachers and crew of the Albatross are rare gems in the world. "},{"Title":"Tense Past","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, this is 'Dead Poets' on water (as I think 1000 other reviewers have commented).  What difference does it make?  They're both Disney movies and Disney is known for re-using the same idiotic themes.  So let's get to the interesting stuff.Scott catches on trends quite often and then supersedes them with his own.  Think of it, we go from the 'Jaws' ripoff to the 'Alien' clone.  'Legend' came in the 80s fantasy craze.  '1492' was a historical cash-in.  Now he's spawned the epic-craze of which he is still master (Petersen will never improve).So it's interesting to see this as one of his less derivative works.  Unlike 'Blade Runner', this hasn't acquired as successful of a following and it's kind of obvious.  Most likely it's because Scott was experimenting here unlike 'Blade' and it didn't work too well.Anyway, we do get some interesting pieces.  The titles are absolutely superb.  The views of the ship are enthralling.  Heck, even the beauty of the dolphins is made almost angelic.  Too bad the whole stupid bully cliche had to barge in.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"maybe, useful","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" it is far to be original. or one of great films. it is decent. and, maybe, for a part of its public, useful, touching and a form of lesson about life with few pink ingredients. it could be a good occasion to discover few actors at young age or Jeff Bridges in a bitter role but, in same measure, to remind old fashion values and few cultural references, the spirit of teenagers and a good guide who transforms theirs in men. it reminds many other films about the same theme but the manner is almost a virtue. because it is a right work, with not the best end but the tension, the drops of soap opera, the pieces from the epics about the man against nature, the importance of duty and the metamorphose in contact with a great challenge are the solid good points. "},{"Title":"Manly Manful Men","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The captain of the Albatross tells his crew, mostly boys of high school age, that the ship is not a toy, and sailing is not a game. But that is exactly what they are. They are not sailing for some practical purpose like earning a living by fishing. They are going sailing for the fun of it. Of course, the fun masquerades as a rite of passage for the boys that will turn them into men, but whom do they think they are kidding? If they want to play sailor instead of staying in school and then getting a job, fine, but don't insult our intelligence with a bunch of macho malarkey. When the title storm comes along and kills a bunch of them, I suppose the ones who survive get extra manliness points, but they still need to finish school and get a job. "},{"Title":"Spoiler movie titles","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's an entertaining movie about the friendship forged among a group of teenagers who sail throughout the world in a ship/school. The story is developed dynamically and it is filmed in really beautiful landscapes.The only reason of my review is this the importance of choosing the title. The events occurred through the film do not forecast the incident that will happen eventually i.e. the white squallIn my opinion, the story could have had several different endings although the unfortunate movie title makes you watch the movie with another perspective. More or less, in the middle of the film the question you are asking yourself is When is the squall going to take place? Instead of, what is it going to happen next?Like I said, the title of this movie was an inappropriate choice. "},{"Title":"Boys At Sea","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" White Squall gives us a kind of coming of age story, wherein nave boys encounter the real world of sailing on a schooner ship, run by a hardened sea captain, played by Jeff Bridges. Through the adventure, the boys make mistakes; they display fear; they face their fears; learn valuable life lessons; enjoy the perks of female company, etc., en route to manhood. It's all fairly predictable. Yet, we can't fault the film for being predictable, given that it is based on true events.I liked the McCrea character, played by John Savage, an actor who has never given a bad performance in any film I have seen him in. But Chuck Gieg (Scott Wolf) is a bit too goody-goody for my preference; unlike the others, he never smokes or drinks alcohol, and only consumes orange juice and soft drinks. The casting of Scott Wolf helps not at all; if he were any more Disney-ish, he would have been out of place here. The other boy actors seem too old for their roles. And everyone is a bit too photogenic. They all look like they're straight out of central casting.Some of the dialogue seems hokey. And the Chuck Gieg narrative voice-over, while evocative and philosophical, seems a bit contrived for someone that age. On the other hand, it does add emotional and thematic depth, so to speak. Indeed, the ending credits and song, Valpariso, suggest an old man who is reflecting back to a long ago childhood; hauntingly nostalgic.A physical adventure film like this does not require a lot of acting skills. And not a lot of acting skills is pretty much what we get. But it's a beautifully photographed film with interesting interior lighting and expansive outdoor camera shots. More pop songs from the 1960 era would have been nice. Sound effects are impressive.The film looks good, visually. That's one of the two really good elements of the film, the other being a story premise based on real events, which makes the climax more meaningful and gripping. The weaknesses are the script and casting. White Squall is worth at least a one-time viewing, especially for those who enjoy outdoor adventure films. "},{"Title":"Fun, Adventure-Filled Film!","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" White Squall is a fun, beautifully-shot film that is essentially Dead Poets Society on water. That is not necessary a bad thing because this movie has the main themes about bonding and growing up. This movie deserves more credit that it gets. The story is interesting, the themes are essential, there is the usual solid and visceral direction by Ridley Scott, the special effects are good, and the editing is fast-paced.Scott's film is about a bunch of high school seniors who decide to finish off high school on a ship that's mastered by the strict Dr. Sheldon who requires much discipline. Little do they know is that their voyage to South America is bound to be ill-fated.Jeff Bridges, as usual, delivers a strong performance. We have to come to care and respect for his character even though he may not be the nicest. This may not be his biggest role, but it's one of his many effective ones.Overall, this is a vastly underrated film that speaks of courage, growing up, and a sense of adventure. This film reminds me of both Dead Poets Society and Scent of a Woman but in good ways. My only problem is that the film tends to be a little too fast-paced which makes things a little murky at times. But, all-in-all, this is a very good film. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"A good story of the Albatross is yet to be told.","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Few of the principals of this story remain today. A year after the sinking, a book was written by one of the crew, called The Last Voyage of the Albatross. The book provide little information, but was timely. The movie was made 30 years after the event, but early on gets into weepy over-dramatization. By the time of the ship's capsizing, too much is taken away from the tragedy by the tedious script. A good film or book would follow the career of Chris Sheldon, whose misfortune at sea was not limited to being skipper of the Albatross. Such a book could also follow the life of Alice Strahan Sheldon and her experience as a member of the Girl Scout Mariner program. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" If your tastes in movies are like so many audiences that like movies that are loaded with sex and violence, you won't like White Squall. That is the only reason I can think of why this movie failed at the box office. It is just too truthful and too full of real life experiences. Young men everywhere can learn from this story.Really fun to watch now as most of the cast of young boys on the Ship are mega stars now. The story is a true one and I know many young men would love the opportunity to do what they did spending their Senior HS year on a working ship.The bonds they form are a little clich but the emotions seem real. Very well cast. Bridges looks his best and Ms. Goodall is believable as his trusted wife.I did not realize it was a Ridley Scott movie until the second time I watched. The scenery/camera work is amazing, the story is sound and it takes you full circle. "},{"Title":"Don't Rock the Boat","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Mystic, Connecticut high school student Scott Wolf (as Charles Chuck Gieg) goes to sea for his 1960-61 senior year. He joins the crew of Skipper Jeff Bridges (as Christopher Sheldon) on the amusingly named ship Albatross. While not acknowledged in the script as such, the name turns out to be a bad omen. Of course, you knew that going in. There are teachers on board, but the real lesson is adventure on the high seas. This is where boys become men. They fight, cry and study together. They bond while smoking, drinking and taking penicillin shots for venereal disease...Our narrator and star is Mr. Wolf, who gained popularity as a small screen look-alike for Tom Cruise on the TV series Party of Five (1994). Top-billed co-star Mr. Bridges gained his sea legs on his famous father's syndicated series Sea Hunt (1958)...Wolf and the boys look more like male model college graduates than high school teenagers. They have shaved chests, plucked eyebrows, pouty lips, and perfectly trimmed hair. Wolf is first drawn to boyish Ryan Phillippe (as Gil Martin), who clings to a picture of his dead brother and has a fear of heights. Made obvious for his lateness and snobbery is Jeremy Sisto (as Frank Beaumont). He commits a despicable act due to domineering daddy David Selby (as Francis Beaumont). In a lesser storyline, initially obnoxious Eric Michael Cole (as Dean Preston) goes to the head of the class...This is based on a true story. Having age appropriate actors play the parts might have made some of the behavior look more inappropriate; herein, they appear trimmed, tempered and tamed. The photography, by Hugh Johnson, is a strength.****** White Squall (2/2/96) Ridley Scott ~ Scott Wolf, Jeff Bridges, Ryan Phillippe, Jeremy Sisto "}{"Title":"Jeff Bridges is Outstanding!","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Jeff Bridges is Outstanding in 'White Squall'. He delivers from start to end. I loved his performance & even as a film, this Ridley Scott Directed Adventure is superb! 'White Squall' Synopsis Teenage boys discover discipline and camaraderie on an ill-fated sailing voyage.Based on the fate of the brigantine Albatross, which sank on 2 May 1961, allegedly because of a white squall, Ridley Scott directs this Adventure with remarkable skill. He's a legend at his craft & he proves it once again. The Screenplay is highly efficient. Jeff Bridges rules this film. He's exemplary in his portrayal. A Versatile, Oscar-Winning Actor, who never fails to mesmerize his fans. Watch 'White Squall'. Its Really Good! "},{"Title":"Great ensemble cast","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a great film about teenagers learning about themselves and facing a challenge together. It is very interesting that this film avoids the usual clichs of an action movie and develops characters more than just stereotypes. I would describe this film as a drama with a magnificent backdrop of uncontrollable natural events...storms and rough seas. Sort of a parody on some the difficulties that these young men were facing. Ridley Scott directs a film which is unique and pushes back the boundaries of genre as have some of his other films such as ALIEN and GLADIATOR. Both of these films are landmarks in their own way. It's hard to think of a film before ALIEN which had similar qualities. The same with GLADIATOR except perhaps its character development which makes a comparison with KUBRICKS Spartacus. As for homo-eroticism, seeing beautiful young male bodies may subjectively be deemed homo-erotic by some people. Does it really matter? Just enjoy the film on your own level as you would other works of art!!! "},{"Title":"A solid 8","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" As far as cinematography goes this film is definitely a 9, the film just looks good. The story even though based on true events had some parts which were exaggerated to the max but overall deserves a 7. The actors is a mix of good and bad here we have a Scott Wolf who actually delivers a solid performance compared to his crappy TV persona on party of five, Jeff Bridges has nowhere near the intensity for the role like he did in Arlington Road and the movie suffers for it. Most of the other actors deliver adequate performances except for Jeremy Sisto who like his character should have been booted off the boat (before they bothered to put his crappy performance on film). Ridley has done better work with previous films and I think with what he had to work with including his talent pool of cast he deserves a solid 8 for this effort...but if u really want to see a great Ridley Scott movie try one off the list below.1. Bladerunner (director's cut...i stress director's cut) 2. Legend (yep it's a fantasy film...but then again so was LOTR and Peter Jackson actually credits Ridley for his forest sequences as the inspiration for his vision of Fangorn. ) 3. Black Hawk Down (gritty, powerful war flick) 4. Gladiator (gritty, powerful war and combat flick) 5. Alien (using H.R. Giger's artistic genius is what made this flick's look the creepiest of all the alien-type films) "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" i have noticed a lot of people have been bagging this movie out, but i think what everyone needs to remember is that it is a true story, so you cant say that the plot line is boring, because they are just portraying what happened, plus it is a really touching story, especially at the capsizing moment. The actors are incredible, as they can really make you feel like your back in the 50's/60's. It is a fantastic movie because it is really gets everyone on the edge of there seats, also, its a true story! i hope everyone enjoyed it as much as i did. -I'm watching you "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Since most people seem to post reviews for this movie that are almost as long and boring as they claim the film is, mine will be quick and the the point. I saw this film in the theater during its original release, and I've seen it probably about a dozen times since. This is a great film. The acting is impressive (and proof that Jeff Bridges is one of Hollywood's most underrated actors), and the special effects and cinematography are astounding. Though the story has a moral (why this is such a HUGE thorn in the side of most people is beyond me), and it may be just a bit too long, this is one film not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly one of the saddest movies I've ever seen!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Good movie. If you are in the mood for a truly tragic movie, with one of the all-time most heart-wrenching scenes in cinema, you'll love this movie. I own this movie because of that one scene alone. And the rest of the movie is pretty good too. Some beautiful sailing scenery, etc. I thought this movie should have been more well known. "},{"Title":"Macho version of The Ancient Mariner","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is an interesting showcase for some rising young stars like Scott Wolf, Ryan Phillippe, and Ethan Embry. The entire cast does a good job, the scenic settings are beautiful, and the bare-chested young men are used to full advantage in this cross between Coleridge's Rhyme of the Ancient Mariner and LORD OF THE FLIES.Some of the plot, however, doesn't make sense unless the viewer recognizes the connections to those two works of literature. For example, if the viewer doesn't catch the allusion to Albatross (the name of the ship) or is not familiar with the Ancient Mariner's story about killing an albatross with an arrow, one of the supposedly more dramatic moments in the film doesn't make much sense other than as a dramatic moment. Despite the fact that the story is based on true experiences of the character played by Wolf, the film comes off a bit too much like DEAD POETS SOCIETY, especially with the mawkish courtroom melodrama.I enjoyed the scenery and the adventure aspects of the film, but the macho theme of men against the sea seemed forced, especially in the concluding sermony narration.  "},{"Title":"You're the glue that keeps us together.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm a fan of both Ridley Scott and Jeff Bridges, but this movie didn't meet their usual standards.  I felt zero empathy for the characters, and the story was disjointed.  Basically, it was a real let down.  "},{"Title":"A great coming of age movie!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a great coming of age movie. It's also based on a true story, which makes it even better in my opinion, with Jeff Bridges starring in one of his better, yet lesser known roles. If you liked Stand By Me and other such movies, you will love this one. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Even if it was a totally different cast of uglier, less defined bodies, I would still have loved this movie...I thought the story was great....however, the movie could have done without that scene in which the whale is killed...I cannot watch it, I always fast-forward that part....two thumbs up for White Squall! "}{"Title":"Very good movie. Excellent character development","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  White Squall is a very good movie, and I thought the development of the characters was excellent.  Jeff Bridges does a great job as the tough but caring captain.  The teenage boys seem very natural and convincing (I felt like I was back in high school). I thoroughly enjoyed the first 3/4 of the movie, up till they encountered the storm.  The storm is extremely violent and it is distressing to see people you have come to know go down while you are hoping for some sort of miraculous rescue.  From that point on the movie took on a very heavy air, and its entertainment value is much lower.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" A great movie. Point blank. Everyone loves this movie (yeah, us poor people who realize the elite is out there ). Yeah, its about rich kids whose parents probably had to work their asses off to get money... and realized their kids needed more supervision and insight to get up with real life (work). It's a great movie. I loved it. Real life is that everyone is still a person... how can you not sympathize with these kids ?? Rich or poor, they are still just kids. It's hard to grow up, no matter what walk of life. Everyone has their own demons to deal with. This was a great movie. Please watch this Movie ! The acting is 100%. Phillipe and Jeremy are just great. I was very moved and cried my eyes out, basically. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but has it's moments","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What this film is, is basically a hybrid of Dead Poets Society, and The Poseiden Adventure.  Jeff Bridges leads a group of boys on a ship where they learn, as well as do vigorous physical exercises.  Of course every boy has some problem, let it be grades arn't high enough, or fear of heights, or problems with parents.  The cast is very good, but the script is rather weak, leaving the film rather uninvolving.  Still its usually entertaining, and all of the ocean water is refreshing to look at.  I'll give it a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"All look the same to me.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 129 min.Maybe I'm getting dumber in my old age but for most of the movie I had trouble putting a character to the faces on screen maybe it's because much of the story takes place off screen. The characters behave in ways unexplained by the story with apparent rivals helping each other as if deep bonds formed within the clips on the cutting room floor.5/10 catch it on TV. "},{"Title":"Why a 3 of 10?  Don't economize on the script writer.","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  So i gave this movie a 3 out of 10, and that's a pretty low grade.  Why? - i keep asking myself.  Why didn't i like it?  If you take it apart, every part deserved at least an OK.  There are good actors, and they play well, so for acting it deserves at least a 6.  The scenery is very beautiful, i must say, this i really enjoyed, nothing beats the 'sun and sea atmosphere'.It all comes down to plot.  Maybe because it's a real story based movie, maybe just a bad script write job, it's hard to say.  But my main complaint here, is that i knew what would happen after first 15 minutes of watching it.  Maybe not the exact detail, but the outline of the plot is perfectly clear.  It is done in the classic American tradition, setting - drama - resolution.  But i cannot watch a movie that doesn't offer any surprises, and this is exactly the case here.  There are very few movies that i actually would want to see for the second time(that is, if i know the plot beforehand), but these movies have some exceptional brilliant trait, be it the camera work, or the dialog, or something else yet or all things combined. The White Squall is done well, but there is nothing brilliant about it, and since the plot becomes clear very soon, why watch it at all?I must also confess that i'm very tired of this greatly overused father-son conflict, there has been zillions of movies about it and here is yet another one.  In certain situations, it maybe fine to use it, but only if there is something new to be said about it.  In this movie it's perfectly trivial.  I must also note that the situation is similar with control issue.  Part of the drama comes from the fact that the skipper, a man who is used to having perfect control of everything is being shown that this control is no more then an illusion when it comes to forces of nature.  And haven't we seen this before, be it the mob, the police, a storm or a flood, it always looks the same.If you like this kind of drama, that comes from strong men being put to stress, then this is a movie for you, but don't expect any surprises, or clever plot turns.  "},{"Title":"Washed away","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A clean miss and financial flop for Ridley Scott, which is unusual. Jeff Bridges is terribly miscast. The intentions were good-- coming of age in an adventurous setting. But the script is weak and the tragic and harrowing events cannot save the movie. Kevin Costner and Steven Spielberg should have counseled Ridley Scott Don't make a movie on the water.  "},{"Title":"Blows Titanic out of the water!","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion, this is the best movie ever made about a ship having trouble out on the water.  I feel this because there is so much more to this movie. In Titanic, there was a ship that went under water.  Not much more.  A mediocre script and average acting tried to manipulate more feeling into it, but in the end, it was only a boat that sank.The Perfect Storm was also lacking.  The whole movie was the storm. That's it.  But in White Squall, there is so much more.  There is the adventure they take, the conquering of fears, the bonds of friendship, and good acting.  Jeff Bridges plays his part especially well.  So knowledgeable, so in charge.In all, this movie is definitely in my movie collection as a prized possession.  Definitely worth taking a look at. "},{"Title":"Oh, the adventure!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what an adventurous film.  I admit the first time I saw the film, after getting over the initial shock of those cuties, I realized how beautiful the picture itself was.  Such wonderful place and things to see.  The entire thing was well done.  I also have to confess that I did cry during the storm. Overall, this was a good film with a smart  cast.  Wolf's narration is hard to beat.      "},{"Title":"A little corny, but I kind of liked it","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought White Squall (***) a pretty good armchair escapist adventure with magnificently photographed scenery (Grenada, Malta, Bermuda, the West Indies, etc.) and a gripping climactic storm that is as good as any I've seen.  (The widescreen laser disc looks and sounds great.)  The boys are good too, although the somewhat cliched script gives only a few of them enough room to stand out from the crowd (e.g., Ryan Phillippe).  Jeff Bridges seems stiff and lightweight in the role of an authority figure (John Wayne he isn't).  He scrunches up his face into a scowling expression and keeps it there for most of the picture. Bridges also shares the hokiest dialogue with Cruise look-alike Scot Wolf as the narrator and central protagonist of the picture.  (It's billed as a true story, but I notice there's still a fiction disclaimer at the end.)  The anti-climactic trial sequence could probably have been wrapped up in a couple of sentences and put with the other summations that run before the final credits.  Still, despite these flaws, I kind of liked it. "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Caught this on tv the other day and only because Jeremy Sisto was in it. It really was the Dead Poets Society of the High Seas. Bunch of misfit over-privileged kids with emotionally absent parents sent off to learn about life. I was in and out, because the movie is fairly boring. It was alright as a family film and learning from life experience, but not much more than that. Jeremy killing that dolphin was the high point of the film. This movie was all about the young talent of the time. Movies like that are generally good, but it was really lacking. The climax was supposed to be the squall which looked like water swishing around in a glass magnified. It was just trying to hard to be a film. I don't get the big deal about Ridley Scott. What's so great about his movies? I'm always suspicious of someone with mass appeal. Just means all the idiots are on the same side. I've seen a lot of his stuff and gotta say, not too fond of you buddy. Anywho, it's watchable if you wanna learn a lesson and see supposedly young talent. "}{"Title":"White Squall was underrated.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  White Squall was underrated, yet not brilliant. It could definitely have been better with more character development. My favourite characters were Gil and Shay. Ryan Phillippe really surprised me with his fantastic acting ability as Gil, and once again the acting talents of Jason Marsden have been overlooked by other imdb users. He's the character who jumps off the 'yards' *first*. One thing about this movie is that it is hard to tell how much time has gone by therefore comprehension of the plot is marred, there is little emphasis on the boys' schoolwork making it seem like they are on a holiday and other than about 6 characters there are simply stereotypical young men on the ship, with no real identity. Okay, so that's 3 things. A very good thing about the movie is the setting and the way that it is portrayed. Full credit to the cinematographer and Ridley Scott on that account. A good movie. It did make me close to crying.  "},{"Title":"An excellent but very underrated movie!","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" White Squall is my personal favorite, not just because of the story and the characters, but also because we seldom see movies that tackle male bonding so deep you even can't help but cry while watching it. I could relate to the story because some parts have resemblance to my life. Great cinematography, great acting, very heartwarming. Ridley Scott just became one of my favorite directors after watching the movie. How I wish I was one of the characters. I particularly liked the role played by Scott Wolf, Charles Chuck Gieg, because I see myself in him. Genuine FRIENDSHIP, teamwork, and unity are best portrayed in this excellent but underrated film. "},{"Title":"A very good movie, the ending wasn't too good.","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have heard about this movie long time ago, but I have never got a chance to watch it. I finally did it tonight. Even thought it was released in 1995, that was 13 years ago! wow, those actors surely have grown older by now, but it is a timeless classic. So many things happened during that trip, I don't know which is real, which is dramatized. They are all good.The sound effect is very good, I felt as if I was right there on the boat riding the big waves, hearing the sea pranging against the boat. The sceneries are beautiful. The music was good, but it was not impressive. When I was watching the production note on the DVD, I thought that the music sounds a little familiar to music of the pirates of the Caribbean, and indeed, it was the same composer. If he composed a better score for this movie, it could have made this movie even better, such as the scenes for the last moment of Alice and Gil.Even though it is more than 2 hours long, it is worth of the time. The white squall scene was very intense. However, the ending felt a little affectation, especially when the guy rang the bell. Also, Jason Marsden was already 20 at that time, but in the movie, he was supposed to be 15. I don't know how old the other characters were at that time. The actors were probably all older than the ages of the real life boys who were on. this trip. "},{"Title":"The bell ties it all together","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" White Squall is one of the best movies I have ever seen. The bell's inscription, Where we go one, we go all! ties the whole movie together. It is a tragic story because of the deaths of all the crew members. But the group that began as a bunch of individuals unsure of why they were there became a tight knit crew that stood united in support of their captain and their fellow crew members.Chuck Gieg said, I finally understand Homer, 'The journey's the thing.' We are not in control of the tragedies that befall us. The captain had to learn this lesson the hard way. But through the journey, he learned that he had others to lean on - the crew he trained. "},{"Title":"Re","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I think the movie was just that good i even wonder why the academy ignored it. To its critics, just appreciate it.I do love Dead poet's Society also, and I don't think white squall is an imitation of it.Oh captain my captain is dead's. Where we go one, we go all is for White squall. I appreciate the performances of Scott wolf and Ryan Phillipe as much as i appreciate that of Jeff bridges. Wonder again why he was not even nominated for the golden globe. The song of sting Valpariso adds to the beauty of this film. It just so dramatic, i even cried while i was watching it.The best part of the movie is when the boys supported bridges when the court was about to revoke his license as a skipper. I really love that part, i watched it several times. Ridley Scott is really good.peace out "},{"Title":"AMAZING","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film was simply AMAZING. I have seen it at least 30 times, and I love it with each viewing. White Squall is about a group of boys who set out on an incredible journey half way around the world and back. The boys are on a school ship and they find that the ship's captain, Christopher Sheldon (played by Jeff Bridges) is strict but is always teaching them the importance of unity. After many heartfelt speeches and events, the boys must face the horrendous White Squall. This movie was visually stunning as well as incredibly acted. Jeff Bridges does a marvelous job at playing Sheldon. He has the right amount of sentiment and stictness in his face. The actor that I was most impressed with was Ryan Phillippe. Phillippe plays Gil Martin, a very shy boy with a fear of heights. Phillippe makes me cry in many of his scenes. He was absolutely INCREDIBLE!!!!!! The one-two-three wake up scene is so powerful, and it is all due to the talent of Phillippe. Go and see this movie. IT IS FANTASTIC!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Ridley Scott's Visceral and Occasionally Powerful Sailing Film Could've Been Wiser and More Personal in the Way It Develops Its Characters.","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Herd a crew of fledgling white guys, apportion good and bad characteristics among them, and have them learn through tough examples that it is best to stick together and adhere to command. Women provide a supplementary function. The intrinsic outlook of the movie is that boys grow up to be men who do cool things together and then go out on Saturday night looking for compliant enough girls.Nearly all movies in this genre have one kid with a wealthy, contemptible father who appears without notice, humiliating his son and requiring unreasonable things of him. And also a kid with a closeted neurotic fear. And a kid who is fearful that he doesn't have what it takes. All such characters feature here, although they are a little hard to tell apart since, rather than conveniently button-down casting, Scott has furnished the posse with brawny, sun-tanned young sorts with contour haircuts who seem like they hang out in Dockers ads. The dubious altruistic goal, the arbitrary crew members and the mandatory array of particular conflicts keep the movie from zooming in more on individual characters and the objective of cultivating superjock confederates. Nevertheless, there are some fine qualities to this film. There is the dimension of the ship itself, the more often than not opulent cinematography, the sumptuous atmosphere of release over nights in port, and the storm sequence near the end.The most powerful sequence though is one that obliges more respect than the movie surrounding it. It is the death of a dolphin at the hands of one of the shipmates. We understand this boy's need to inflict violence in the state of mind to which he's been driven, but Scott lets us know full well how bewildered and betrayed the dolphin feels, one moment playing with the other shipmates and the next being put out of its misery on the dry deck of a ship as its family flees the unpredictable humans. It is an extremely difficult scene to watch, but it is a deeply honorable one, because it brings out the truly humanistic sides of the characters and us, the audience, when confronting the reality of the truly benign maligned.As for the storm I will not say much, save to note that the title refers to a sudden and violent windstorm phenomenon at sea which is not accompanied by the black clouds generally characteristic of a windstorm, but instead white-capped waves and broken water, a meager warning to any unfortunate seafarer caught in its path. And so it does, in storm footage of extravagant wrath, and of the true dwarfing effect the sea has on any man-made power. Indeed, the man-made consequence of the storm is a trial presided over by the Coast Guard, at which sides are taken and diatribes are performed that will ring quite common to anyone who remembers the main feature of most any late '80s-90s mainstream American movie.Scott's anamorphically shot sailing film could have been wiser and more personal in the way it develops its characters. Its inherent ideals are preferable the less you contemplate them. However, I enjoyed the movie for the headlong visceral vitality and unexpected, almost incongruous humanism of its adventure. "},{"Title":"Utter Hokum","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The story, as I understand, is based on real events. That can be either good or bad, depending on what sort of license is taken with those real events and how they are rendered.In this case, the results are enough to gag a maggot. I wasn't expecting much going in -- anticipating a story of rich high-school kids taking an ocean cruise under a stern skipper. That is, what I figured was a coming-of-age movie along the lines of something about boot camp or basic training, the kind in which the drill sergeant says, My duty is to snap you out of your winsome civilian ways. Well, it IS that, in a way. The kids start out as kids and end up as an organic group. But this is far hokier than any boot-camp movie I've ever seen, outside of a deliberate comedy. Who WROTE this thing? The air is filled with slogans that belong, not in high school, but in the third grade. The dialog offends the ear.Jeff Bridges usually does a better-than-average job but in this case his performance is mediocre. He brings nothing extra to the part, although given his lines, it's hard to know how he could do much with them. The rest of the cast is undistinguished and a few of the kids are painfully inadequate. There's a lot of tearing up, and considerable crying. The best scene involves a dolphin.The immature clichs continue to the very end. The Coast Guard is cast in the role of the hard-hearted court at the hearing that follows the disaster. The interrogator does nothing but hit Bridges over the head with his misinterpretations and misconstruction of events. You let the crew drink alcohol, didn't you? (A couple of harmless drinks.) And you didn't punish them, though you punished them for killing a fish. (The dolphin business.) The technical details surrounding the sinking are left murky. What is a white squall anyway? And if it's as dangerous as Bridges claims, why weren't the whole crew alerted and wearing life vests? But why go on? If The Albatross were a Dreadnaught, it would still be torpedoed and sunk by the ludicrous comic-book script. "},{"Title":"Best watched with sound off","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" As a person who knows the filmed ship and some other ships, too, I cannot see the movie as a movie, only. As a movie is has some great, wonderful shots of the ship, most of them done on an existing vessel - apart of the ones in the disaster scenes, of course, and a certain room under deck. But regarding the story and dialogs I only can call it big crap. Nothing of that would happen like this on a real sailing vessel. No wonder, the film had bad impact on the existing ship - if I didn't know better, I wasn't tempted to do a sailing voyage for sure. Definitely, for Europeans I recommend to switch off once the ship ran aground. After that, the over-emotional, very American part begins which I couldn't bear. The pics are really, really great, no wonder in a Ridley Scott film, but if you can avoid listening to the text, it will become much better. "},{"Title":"Saw this at a free screening..","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" It STILL wasn't worth the price of admission! I love Jeff Bridges and Ridley Scott, but this had to be the low point for both of their careers. I didn't believe it for a second. Terrible script..we have seen it a thousand times. Every single film clich was utilized with tragic results. I have never screened a film where not even ONE of the scenes were believable. The storm sequences were so poorly shot that I was looking for the wind and rain machines to sneak in frame. It appeared that much of the movie was filmed inside a studio water tank.The film critics cut Scott WAY too much slack in their reviews for this garbage. Simply AWFUL!!!! "}{"Title":"Falls short of the mark","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This could have been a very good movie. To Sir with Love meets a disaster movie! -) But something with the timing and pacing is not right. The movie is too long - or rather it has not got enough action to fill up more than two hours. Someone should have tightened it up.Also, I cannot really decide if I like the Captain or not. He was quite irresponsible and sometimes too hard. As when he forced the boy who was afraid of heights to climb the mast in front of all the other boys, and when he expelled a boy only for using a harpoon on a dolphin. It would have been funnier if one could have admired the Captain whole-heartedly! I do not think that the boys developed enough either - and that is the point with this kind of super teacher-versus-wild kids movie. At least you were not allowed to see enough of this development, or the result of it.Another problem was that several of the boys looked a lot alike so that it was difficult to keep them apart. (Or maybe it is a sign of my getting old, that I think that all young people look the same! -) ) I also think it would have been enough if only two or three of the boys had been presented in detail, with their respective characters, backgrounds, personal problems, and development. The rest of them could all have been small bit parts, foil. Now there was too much to remember about them, and trying to keep them apart, in just a feature film. If it had been a long TV series it would have been different - then you would have had time to take it all in.Still, this movie is quite good enough to watch at home with your older children/teenagers on a rainy day! "},{"Title":"Good movie but slow in spots","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The film is entertaining, and the White squall part is excellent. However, the film is slow in spots, and drags it down from a 7.  Jeff Bridges is a good actor, and I like him in this film.  The end the film is a bit of a downer, but where would the interest be if no tragedy occurred.  Worth watching on TV. 6 or 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pathetic.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is probably one of the worst three films I have ever seen. The themes have been explored so much better in so many other places. The use of the voiceover, the overacting and the cliches combine with the lack of substance to make this film one that you can only cringe at. Two out of ten as I am feeling kind. "},{"Title":"so bad it was funny","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that are so bad you laugh at them.  I remember watching this movie with a large group of people and we ended up making fun of it, MST3K style, because it was so bad.  Terrible dialogue, stupid plot and laughable characters make this movie one to rent only if you're in the mood for a really really really bad movie.  "},{"Title":"Wind, rain, and some damn big waves!","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Insipid story from Felix Sutton's book about young boys in the early 1960s who sign onto skipper/teacher Jeff Bridges' ship to hopefully build their characters (do teenage boys of any era really feel concerned about their characters?). Everyone naturally gets more than they bargained for once the ship is ravaged by a tropical storm. Teeth-grinding formula right off the assembly-line, saddled with inert juveniles and Bridges' hamming about. Pretentious, portentous and deadening. Directed by a slumming Ridley Scott, who may have overdosed on a late-night double-feature of Dead Poets Society and Lord of the Flies. * from **** "},{"Title":"Absolute waste....","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Rarely have I heard such a terrible narrative. The story line is 'washed out' and the dialogue is utter rubbish; it's totally unbelievable. I couldn't sit through the entire video in one setting it was so bad I watched another film in hope that something better might happen in the second setting hardly likely. A total waste of time.  "},{"Title":"You shall be a man my son.","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" At first sight,this is an entertaining movie.But what lies beneath is a very obnoxious moral,and the final lines on the screen before the final cast and credits are a dubious proof that this voyage made men of the youngsters.Far from his beautiful character of fearless ,Bridges portrays here a macho man -he does not even share a tear for his wife ,who does anyway?-the way Scott introduces him is ,so to speak,worth the price of admission.This is the umpteenth version of you shall be a man my son in the grand tradition of captain courageous ,but that was then and this is now ,and time has taken its tollsuch a manly story has become obsolete today.That said,the storm scene is wonderfully filmed ,which is the least we can expect from Ridley Scott. "},{"Title":"Boring and Laughable *SPOILERS*","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was very, and I mean very, boring. Like seriously, get on with the action. At the end when the captain was leaving the hearing and Guy got up and made that emotional speech, it made me laugh, a lot. The actors and actresses were right for the role but I always kept forgetting who people were because they were all in the movie for like 5 minutes, and Guy was barely in the movie at all. Also I didn't know the captain was married to that woman on the ship until the end. The only positive point was when the ship was hit by the white squall, the cinematography was pretty good. This movie is very boring and should only be viewed by those that want to go to sleep.Rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"What`s The Plot ?","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  ***** MILD SPOILER *****Made during Ridley Scott`s career doldrum between THELMA AND LOUISE and GLADIATOR , WHITE SQUALL  is a rather shapeless story . It first starts off as a sort of DEAD POET`S SOCIETY on the high seas then becomes a disaster movie where several characters die during a shipwreck and becomes a courtroom drama at the end . Three quarters of the film are dedicated to the rites of passage tale while only the last quarter involves the shipwreck and court case . Considering the title of the film you`d have thought the shipwreck would have made up the bulk of the film . WHITE SQUALL isn`t a terrible film but it wasn`t a good one either and it`s difficult to have either anything good or bad to say about hence this bland review   "}]