[{"Title":"Interesting insights into boundaries, and what is going too far.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"40 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson is superb in this hard look at the pressure that American Teachers can face. The story begins simply enough, but soon leads us into a jungle of what is right and what is wrong. It encompasses the themes of machismo, gangs, respect and the fallen and tainted profession of teaching. Jackson plays the destroyed Teacher, whose life is torn apart after a serious stabbing by one of his own pupils. It follows his fight to cling on to the only thing he has left in his life, Teaching, but soon that too is torn away from him. Watch for this amazing insight into the state of some American schools and for the complex discussions of right, wrong and what it takes to exact a change. "},{"Title":"The substitute","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kevin Reynolds, the director of One Eighty Seven, a film written by Scott Yagermann, supposedly a teacher himself, shows he is a man that clearly understands today's problems in the inner city schools.Some of the children, of mostly immigrant parents, are lured to join gangs in order to survive the hostile environment. These are the same children who could benefit from the free education in their new adopted country. Instead of making something out of themselves, they create their own problems and will end up doing menial work, or in jail because of the choices they make.This is the basic premise to this story, in which, a decent man and an excellent teacher, is stabbed at the beginning of the film, and not only is his body injured, but also his spirit. The relocation from Brooklyn to L.A. proves to be the wrong move. If Trevor Garfield thought he had it bad in New York, he is not prepared for a school system in California that seems to be a disgrace.This particular school, where Trevor is hired as a substitute teacher, has some of the most dangerous teen agers of the city. It appears that kids have the upper hand in whatever is going on because its principal is more interested in avoiding being sued by the students than in educating them. In fact, they rule the school. The worst thing that comes out in the film is how Cesar, a teen ager, who is a bully and a criminal, can't even read! There are a few other aspects the film is trying to explore. Teachers who are corrupt, like is the case with Dave Childress, who admits to having had sex with one of the students. The young woman who is being helped by Mr. Garfield turns against him, only to redeem herself at the end, after it's too late for her to recognize a valuable lesson Trevor taught her.Samuel L. Jackson gives an intense performance portraying Trevor Garfield. Mr. Jackson shows in the film another dimension to his method of acting. He is never boring. John Heard is the corrupt Dave. Kelly Rowan is Ellen, a teacher who judges her fellow teacher and is repulsed by what she finds out. Clifton Collins is good as Cesar, the ignorant young man, a product of the gang mentality. Karina Arroyoave is seen as Rita.One Eighty Seven is an eye opener about why some students aren't learning in school and a tribute to the teachers that are trying to educate them in spite of the horrors in the classroom. "},{"Title":"A nice, thoughtful alternative to all those countless DANGEROUS MINDS clones made during the time.","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Reynolds' 187, although billed as another straight-laced-teacher-turns-troubled-urban-highschool-teens-into-well-rounded-individuals movie, goes above and beyond this tired premise.  The provocative story (which was apparently written by an actual highschool teacher) breathes new life into the otherwise stale highschool-drama subgenre.Samuel L. Jackson's performance as Trevor Garfield is fantastic, and his many emotional scenes and powerfully delivered lines of dialogue work well at allowing the audience to sympathize with the disenchanted Garfield and relate to his humdrum life.  Also, the characters are much more dynamic and developed here than in most movies of this kind.  The student as well as the faculty roles are all given unique personalities, backgrounds, and adequate motivation for their actions, which is a refreshing departure from the typical the reason they're bad kids is because they grew up in the 'hood-style characterizations.Although a few of the supporting performances are somewhat stilted (mainly because they are overshadowed by Jackson's excellence), the highly original story is clever enough keep anyone's interest piqued until the heartrending (although arguably contrived) ending.  187, aside from being smart, touching, and one-of-a-kind, really shows off Reynolds' ability to successfully convert a good, solid screenplay into a good, solid film.  And since this movie was made directly after his abominable WATER WORLD, we should all by doubly impressed by his efforts! "},{"Title":"Good treatment of fascinating subject, and with a strong ending","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Violence in schools is the subject of this bleak, hard-hitting, drama, starring the always reliable Samuel L. Jackson in another great performance who plays a teacher who moves from a tough Brooklyn school after being stabbed repeatedly by a student in the back to an even tougher LA school. 187 is a vastly underrated thriller, intense and gripping throughout, and the ending is powerful and satisfying. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"A review on 187","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson is not only one of the coolest guys alive, he´s also a great character actor what this film shows very impressively. I don´t know how bad the circumstances at some American schools really are, but I think 187 is much more realistic than liars like Dangerous Minds. Kevin Reynolds also did a great job as director. In the whole film there are no spectacular things happening, but it is suspense-packed and dramatic from beginning till the end. Also the photography and the score are excellent, because they reflect the depressive and hopeless situation perfectly. The Deer Hunter-like showdown and the desperate speech of Rita at the end will keep you sitting on the chair, left deep impressed and considering, while the whole film is already over for a long time. (9/10) "},{"Title":"What, no comments on the allegory?","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I just finished watching One Eight Seven.A great film -- I went into it expecting a fluffy action flick, and got the wind knocked out of me.I read the remarks above and was struck by the notable lack of comments about one of the defining qualities of this film -- it is a modern, Hollywood treatment of an old, old story--  A story that was already ancient when it was packaged a couple millennia ago as the New Testament.(Uh, I guess I should mention that some spoilers will follow, although I doubt that any significant details that folks won't see coming themselves will be given up.)This is the story of a Good Teacher who is moved by compassion to sacrifice his own life in order to demonstrate the folly and absurdity of man's inhumanity to man.This story has been told and retold again and again, with varying degrees of success.  (The Green Mile is at one end of the spectrum, and Cool Hand Luke is at the other.  Which end is up is, I suppose, a subjective thing.)What makes this a good movie is it's subtlety and ambiguity.Okay, it's not always -that- subtle.  The introductions were a bit of a groaner------------------------------Childress Roosevelt high?  Isn't that where that teacher got stabbed to death? Garfield Actually, he survived. Childress No, there was this gang-banger, had a ten-penny nail, he stabbed him about a dozen times in a hallway, and....   (LONG PAUSE) ...you're him. Jesus Christ.  You're him.  It was you.-----------------------------But at least his initials weren't J.C.  Giving him the surname of an assassinated president is a little more elegant, although points come off for finding it necessary to reinforce the synchronicity of it by having him glance up at the list of AMERICAN <dead> PRESIDENTS when he realizes he's accidently walked into Childress's American History class.One thing's for sure, Samuel L. Jackson sure knows how to Give to Cezar what is Cezar's.  (Not a misspelling of Caesar -- Cezar is the name of a Severely Emotionally Disturbed student.)A great screenplay, brilliantly photographed, excellent sound design.The ambiguity of Garfield's moral character is interesting to me--  He is never *shown* to do anything wrong, (with the exception of yelling at someone in a road-rage incident,) but there are some *implications* of wrongful behaviour.  (Don't wanna give anything away, so I'm treading carefully.)  Even these *implied* actions are ambiguous--  Do the circumstances justify them?  The writer clearly wants us to think about it. Hard.  "},{"Title":"Now I work as a sub and I watched the film again...","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film a bunch of times years ago, back when I bought it. I liked it a lot. Now I am older and I'm working as a sub, just like Mr. G. So I came to think of this film again, and now I've just finished watching it again. It is excellent. Even though conditions are not _that_ extreme here in Denmark, there are still a lot of similarities, and I feel with Mr. G. I'm a little bit closer to understanding what is going on in his head. I think this film does an excellent job in portraying its characters. The conflict and the subject of teacher/student relationship are brilliantly described. Furthermore, all of the actors, and Samuel L. Jackson in particular, are doing great jobs. What I also notice watching it again is the absolutely beautiful camera-technical and lighting effects. "},{"Title":"Kept me riveted","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I actually stumbled across this movie on premium cable.  At first I was only mildly interested in watching it.  But before I knew it, I couldn't take my eyes off the screen.  It is unusual for me not to figure out the punchline to a movie very early on, but this movie didn't allow my mind to even go there.  I was very pleasantly surprised by this movie and would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"A school story to think about !!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This great movie makes us thinking how to manage school problems and violence in the family or in our society. A very realistic film well packed as a thriller and with excellent actors . Why didn´t won Samuel Jackson the Oscar for his top performance? I was not bored from the start to the end. There were many plots and I recommend this film to everybody. I saw it already twice so don't miss it. I gave 8/10. "},{"Title":"What are you gonna do?","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After a vicious assault on him, Trevor Garfield, a teacher, moves cities and works as a temp. However, he finds that things are even worse at his new school. Dealing with an important subject, this is immensely engaging and tense. While not based on any specific case, this was written by an actual teacher, and, frankly, it does feel terrifyingly authentic and realistic. The psychology is completely accurate, and this is not black and white. This is well-paced, and never boring. The plot is compelling throughout, and though you can figure some things out before they occur, this most likely *will* surprise you. Every acting performance is spot-on, and all roles are marvelously cast. Jackson is impeccable, and his particular knack for playing someone who holds anger and may lose control at any moment is excellent for this. This has a great soundtrack, with music that fits the environment(which is very nicely established; they found perfect locations and types of people), without making it appealing. The editing and cinematography are incredible, if dangerously close to being flashy. There is a bit of brutal, bloody violence, a lot of disturbing content, moderately frequent strong language and brief nudity in this. I recommend this to anyone mature enough to handle it. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Tight, well-directed, well-acted","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Capturing just a glimpse of the threat and dangers of gangs in schools, 187 provides a chilling story of survival in public schools. Samuel Jackson portrays all the levels of emotions and we get behind his crusade to clean up the useless waste of human flesh.A jewel in this movie is the performance of Clifton Collins as Cesar Sanchez. He shows the depth of anger and (at the end) the desperate need for identity that only his gang can provide.The climax scene, although shocking, makes perfect sense. There is no alternative that wouldn't be a cop-out and it couldn't be portrayed any better. "},{"Title":"Violence breeds violence","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie offers good insight into the culture of violence that is prevalent in cities like Los Angeles, especially its eastern part. Samuel Jackson plays a teacher who survived a brutal stabbing in a NY school and moves to L.A. in order to start again in a new place, trying to get away from the traumatic memories connected to his old working place. But it turns out to be just the beginning of a new nightmare for him he gets the worst class imaginable, where some of the students are real thugs and hoodlums. The worst of them are Benny Chacon (played by an unknown actor) and Cesar Sanchez, played by Clifton Collins Jr in one of his first major roles. After Chacon kills a graffiti artist for spoiling one of his masterpieces, he goes on the run and is later found dead. Garfield (Jackson) is left to deal with Sanchez, who proves to be enough for him to handle.This shows how violence, psychological violence itself, can make a non-violent individual get more violent and retort to violence in order to solve a problem. Jackson's Trevor Garfield is a traumatised veteran who gets pushed too far by the school bullies and starts bullying back, in his own way. At the same time, this film also lays the blame on the school itself, its principal's tolerance for the bullies' antics and lack of understanding or sympathy for Garfield's plight clearly underscores that. The gangbangers get their way more often than not and Garfield has to fight a lone battle, one which also changes his personality.It is a pretty strong film which has a sort of sleepy film-noir quality, reminiscent of some older films. Samuel Jackson makes a very good performance, same as Collins Jr and the beautiful Kelly Rowan and John Heard make good supporting performances. Rowan's character seems to be the only one which is clean in all this mess. Her role is that of a moral guardian who questions Jackson's actions when he retaliates against the bullies. Other characters are all pretty much despicable, except for Rita, who is just a victim of her own environment. This is the gangland, where only law is the law of the strongest and the most intimidating. It shows how hard it is to fight against this law. "},{"Title":"Deserves a Good Grade","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie rings true and deserves a good grade. It is very difficult to portray classroom and teacher student relationships authentically and accurately. The scenario has been done many times with varying degrees of success. It must also be mentioned that TV shows have overdone this genre to the point of dumbed down numbness.Unless experienced, the difficulty in reaching and educating in the big city schools today can only be imagined, and fiction usually results in flights of fancy.The students and educators are presented here without much hyperbolic drama, although some encounters are heavy handed but the situations seem real. The ending is abrupt and really takes it to another level, but until then it is a scary and tension filled semester.As this film demonstrates teaching is one of the most underrated, undervalued, under-appreciated, and underpaid of the public service sector. That is unfortunate for our children and the progress of our society. "},{"Title":"Slice of 90's L.A. that still looks good.","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the world of 'teacher takes revenge' flicks, we have tons of flops. I think 187 is certainly not one of those flops. It is a film that has held up well since its release in 1997.Samuel L. Jackson turns in one of his good performances here. The setting is perfect a hazy, smoggy east Los Angeles in the 90's. Films like American Me and Falling Down also captured that 'L.A. thing' well. 187 does that. It makes you feel like you are there.Some of it definitely plays like an after school special, but most of the plot here is gritty and believable...this is no Class of 1984. Awesome soundtrack with lots of good Massive Attack too.7 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"gangs in schools","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" what a powerhouse of a movie,, this one really rocks you to the core, especially if you have kids in high school. A dedicated High School Science Teacher get's brutally assaulted in New York,, 15 months later he moves on to L.A. and decides to give it another try to teach again,, and again he falls into teaching in the ghetto, he doesn't even get to be in a classroom with air conditioning,, he get's a trashy dump bungalow, there he meets a couple of teachers who are on his side,, one he get's involved with romantically and tries to help,, the other turns out to be a gun loving psycho. there are many cliques in this movie, unfortunately most of them are true in today's world. this is one of those movies where i think that you can take away from it that you learned something from it useful, "},{"Title":"Teaching.","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Eight Seven (1997) is one of those films that you want to hate because of it's gritty reality but can't ignore because it presents a serious problem in today's American school system. Samuel Jackson portrays realistically a substitute teacher named Trevor Garfield who had good intentions in going into teaching but in the process was pushed too far. John Heard also puts in a stellar performance as the corrupt and alcoholic teacher Dave Childress who acts as an example for Mr. Garfield as to what it means to go too far. Kelly Rowan on the other hand acts as what it is to be a good teacher Ellen Henry, in essence the other side of Mr. Garfield's conscience. In the end this story proves to be a tragedy, which may be necessary to make the audience think about what's wrong with the school system as portrayed in this film. Love it or hate it, watch it. A 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Grippingly Realistic","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is fantastic.  PSUEDO SPOILER  I love happy endings and definitely did not get one here.  But it was a great movie nonetheless.Actors don't get much better than Samuel L. Jackson&#133;that is a given.  It is emotionally moving (and draining) to see a character portrayed by Jackson so well  A teacher that wants to do nothing other than teach as a profession, even at the sacrifice of his own life.  A previous viewer paralleled Jackson's character to Christ.  For those who found the movie unrealistic and predictable, now hear this&#133;some students DO threaten teachers and mean every bit of it; some students DO attempt to demean substitute teachers; some students DO initiate physical confrontations with teachers; the administration DOES NOT ALWAYS back up the teachers the way it should.   Now of course there are teachers who abuse their power too.  It just seems that the `wrong doer' (whether student or teacher) is often more successful at twisting things in their own favor because they do it so much and have the practice that `on the level people' lack.One does not necessarily need to look at New York City, LA or even any metropolis schools to see similar situations.  These types of situations occur across our country in many schools (inner city, urban, middle working class, suburban, etc.).  Remember Columbine Colorado High School in 1999 and other similar incidents? And might I add that the Trench Coat Mafia was not a Chicano gang. The good thing is that this sort of thing does not occur in every school or all of the time.  But it happens enough to be recognized and explored on film.I've always believed teachers to be miserably underpaid. Consider the part in  the beginning of the movie (in the NYC school) when Trevor first receives the threat of death and goes to the principal who only laughs and dismisses him as being a paranoid man who thinks his teaching is actually received!  What a BIG slap in the face for someone who has a passion of his or her job.  Truth be told  supervisors can be this unsupportive and uncaring too.   "},{"Title":"Pyrrhic victory?","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This story about a teacher challenged in a school full of dangerous and bored delinquents is set in Los Angeles, which is fast becoming for urban misery what New York was twenty years ago. See L.A. and die. Except that in this movie's panoramic views, you can't quite see the city because it's encased in a smog that approximates the true color of nitrogen dioxide. If L.A. were a duck, it would be duck a l'orange.I didn't expect much from this sort of tale. It's been done many times before. The teacher who is devoted to his job, the sexy colleague, the rude and foul-mouthed students, with one or two good ones sprinkled among them. The constant challenges, the humiliations, the keyed car, the gangs, the girl with the crush, the embittered colleagues who see their charges as beyond salvage. Watching all this familiar stuff play out on the screen is actually reassuring, comforting. It's like going to mass as a child, knowing exactly what rituals to expect. Here come the censer.I suppose the original, Blackboard Jungle, back in the 50s, provided the framework that has now turned all but inescapable. High school movies that don't have the threat of violence are kind of dull, Up The Down Staircase. The central problem for most of these school movies about deprived and depraved students is, How can I reach them? This one is different, though, and it kept me engaged throughout because the question here is, CAN I reach them? The answer is yes, but not without a price. Jackson's victory is Pyrrhic. It wasn't worth the price.The direction is perfectly ordinary and without distinction. The script at time stumbles all over the place, like one of those Chicano kids on tequila. At the climax, it drops dead with a speech.Jackson is a wounded saint, having been stabbed in the back in a Brooklyn school before moving to L.A. He never loses his temper, no matter whether provoked by some teen-aged moron, betrayed by his principal, or accused of murder by the blond colleague who has previously groveled at his feet and practically denuded herself in his presence.The blond, Kelly Rowan, is almost perfect in the part, though it's overwritten like all the others. She's not quite Hollywood pretty and she's at the age of near desperation. There have been a couple of truly fine black actors since Sidney Poitier and Samuel L. Jackson is among them. He's a magnetic presence. And his range as an actor is expansive. He can be a thoroughly believable savvy street gangsta, as in Jackie Brown, or a straight teacher with glasses, as he is here. Morgan Freeman is able to do the same thing, but his age now restricts the variety of his roles. He can't be the perspicacious pimp who kicks a client in the balls anymore, as he did in Street Smart. Now he's got to be Jung's wise old man. I won't give away the ending because (1) it's silly and (2) it's unexpected. "},{"Title":"We've got a 187 (good movie) in progress","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Shot in sear brown, this one stokes up the fire. Here's a more intense gang movie as to the Boys In The Hoodz, types. This one really has you involved right from the start. Playing the more introverted types, out of the norm, for Jackson, it's just an excellent performance, among many fine others. He plays a teacher who's finally pushed, beyond breaking point, by a trio of homeboys, at the new L.A high school he's attended, after surviving a knifing, by a disgruntled and failing homeboy, Jackson's character, before this, as a more brighter, cheerier teacher. He makes the transformation well. As the movie furthers along, he becomes more pushed, may'be so much so much, he's exacted violence on these troublemakers, or worse, driven to kill one of them. Getting with the times, the movie, written by an actual teacher, turns a different corner of plot, into a sort of thriller, where as to the teacher being on trial. This realistic movie, gets a proper grip on the teachers situation, as to what these poor souls endure, like living in fear, subjecting to taunts, threats and ridicule, where others are driven into madness, like the John Heard character. It's easy to see how some people can say it's a morbid and biased telling of story, where everything not as bleak as this movie shows, but I don't agree. The same could say about River's Edge, how it all wallows in the mire, it's all so depressing, but the truth be told, some tales are, and you can't hide from the truth, especially when written by someone one, who has first hand knowledge of he subject. The inevitable showdown between Jackson, and three thugs, who invade his home, where he's forced into admittance, regarding a dead homeboy friend of theirs, is the film's real moment of sweating intensity. The leader, Caesar is one fearful bad boy, a bust out performance by Clifton Gonzales Junior, a professional new star in the making. They have Jackson, play Russian roulette, Deer Hunter style, Caesar watching a bit too much t.v. We are witness to him yelling expletives to his long suffering mother, and when his homeboys friend turn on him, as Jackson informs them, of his physical abuse towards his mother, Caesar's the one who turns scared for a pith, as Jackson makes his getaway. 187 has great music, and we learn a bit too, in the classroom, not just out of it. The performances excel, like Heard, Rowan, and the versatile Tony Plana, as the headmaster at Jackson's new school. Of course, no one can hold a candle to Clifton Collins, blistering performance, one you'll remember for years to come. May'be this film could act as a teaching tool, for bullied teachers, whatever, and curb this madness, but fat chance. You really need to cut teachers a break, cause bad things shouldn't happen to good people. Tight compact drama, all the way. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth a watch...","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Samuel L Jackson excels in this movie as do all the cast. The script is well penned setting the scene perfectly.Some of the cinematography is excellent displaying some fantastic views of the streets of Los-Angeles neatly inter-spliced with subtle atmospheric music. In fairness seven out of ten is a touch conservative as I don't think there is any area where this movie could have been improved. Certainly one of Samuel L Jacksons finest underrated gems.I would definitely watch 187 again if for no other reason then to see some of those sumptuous camera angles once more. "}{"Title":"The only thing you respect is stupidity.","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Teacher Trevor Garfield survives a stabbing by a student, moving from New York to Los Angeles, with a different perspective on life, he resumes teaching as a substitute. But Trevor finds that the same old problems still persist, only now he's going to do things his way......One Eight Seven, directed by Kevin Reynolds The Count of Monte Cristo and starring as its lead, Samuel L. Jackson Pulp Fiction, is another in a long line of teacher and unruly students based plotters. Trace a line from Blackboard Jungle to The Principal, to Class Of 1984, The Substitute, Dangerous Minds and you get the picture. It's a shame then that as a formula, it's now looking a bit frayed around the edges. Because Reynolds' film does have a couple of things up its sleeve with which to make it a time worthy viewing.Firstly there is Samuel L. Jackson himself. By his own admission, he's someone who will work for food. However he is capable of the odd flash of excellence, regardless the quality of film he is appearing in. He may be adored by the MTV generation for stints in Tarrantino pulpers, but it's with film's like Changing Lanes, and this here Reynolds piece, that he really puts down his marker of ability. As Garfield he is asked to go thru a character makeover during the story, not complex as such, but in a sanity breaking point kind of way. Something that Jackson really gets to grips with and in spite of the bad acting around him shame shame casting director. Secondly is the ending itself. No it's not shattering in the pantheon of genre pieces emotionally, but on the intelligence scale it scores rather high. We may have been fed a pre-empt earlier in the piece, but the outcome is no less dramatic for it. Some standard genre stereotyping causes a roll of the eyes, and pet peril and sexy teacher under threat is a touch too tiresome for the older, experienced viewer. But this one deserves a better reputation because it at least tries to offer something different. It doesn't succeed across the board, oh no, but at least it's got enough about it to roll its credits knowing at least it tried to veer away from its genre restraints..and it's got Sammy Jackson on prime form. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The greatest unknown movie around","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off, Samuel L. Jackson is always amazing. He definitely does not disappoint in this movie. Second, this movie was not hyped or run down your throat, yet it might be one of the best unknown movies around. It's basically set in a super hard core school, where Jackson is a teacher.The drama is nonstop and the plot line isn't boring and predictable like most movies of the genre. It's not overly feel good like many teacher type movies but it keeps you watching. There is violence in the movie so be forewarned but nothing excessive. Definitely worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"This fascinating sometimes flawed film is far from perfect but benefits excellent performances by the cast.","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" An dedicated science teacher Trevor Garfield (Samuel L. Jackson) nearly dies from the attack by a student in New York City. Garfield decides after the near-fatal attack to move to Los Angeles. But Garfield finds himself in the same situation but possibility much worse. Since Garfield has problems with a ruthless student (Clifton Gonzalez Gonzalez) and his gang. Garfield decides to take justice into his own hands. While things gets out of hand for his sake.Directed by Kevin Reynolds (The Count of Monte Cristo 2002, Robin HoodPrince of Thieves, Waterworld) made an fascinating drama with intense performances by Jackson and Gonzalez (Now credited as Clifton Collins Jr.). The film features good supporting roles by John Heard, Kelly Rowan and Karina Arroyave. This provocative movie was an box office disappointment in the summer of 1997. But it went on to be a cult film. This is a hard hitting drama you soon won't forget. Stylishly photography by Ericson Core (Daredevil, The Fast and the Furious, Payback). Written by a then real-life teacherScott Yagemann. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Little known, but one of Jackson's best","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A powerful story about urban violence and how it can affect inner city schools, this is an excellent little film. Samuel L. Jackson shines as the teacher fed up with his class who eventually begins exact his own kind of justice by bumping off the problem pupils. An atmosphere of simmering violence is built up along with a lot of suspense in a tale that had me hooked. The reliable Jackson puts in an excellent performance as the bitter teacher who has been driven to the edge.The rest of the cast do their jobs well, especially the actors playing the loathsome pupils. What I liked best about this film was the surprising ending, which sees Jackson and his adversaries playing Russian Roulette round a table. A superb ending to what is an interesting, sometimes difficult to watch but still important film. Forget the watered-down crap that most television stations show, this is raw, forceful viewing which asks questions. In fact it reminded me of some of those gritty '70s films, as it has the same hard edge. "},{"Title":"Written by a teacher...who needs to go back to school","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first hour of the movie was effective, the acting and direction were solid.  Jackson was good, and the supporting cast was intense at times.  The setup was mostly believable, unlike similar movies such as 'The Principal.' But as the story progressed the script lost all touch with reality with all characters behaving uncharacteristically.  What might have been a good movie lost focus at the end by applying an homage to a classic movie in a situation that wasn't applicable.   "},{"Title":"A Variation On The Usual Formula And A Portrayal Of A Pyrhhic Vctory","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The very last scenes of this movie deal a lot with the subject of a pyrrhic victory. And that's a very appropriate bit of reflection, because this movie does present what seems to me to be a classic pyrhhic victory - where the battle is won, but at an outrageous and unjustifiable cost.When this started I was expecting it to be a pretty formulaic type of movie - following what in some ways has become a very tired formula. How many stories have their been about the dedicated teacher who goes into a troubled school full of seemingly hopeless kids and manages somehow to turn everything around. I can date the formula back as far as the 1960's with To Sir With Love. There may well be earlier examples; that's just the earliest example I can think of. Here, the teacher is Trevor Garfield, played by Samuel L. Jackson. As the movie opens, Garfield is teaching at a troubled school in Brooklyn, and ends up getting knifed by a student he was going to fail. Surviving that attack, he moves to Los Angeles and becomes a substitute teacher, whose assignment is at an even more violent high school, where of course he becomes their target. The formula seems to be working its way out through the character of Rita, whom Garfield begins to tutor and who become more and more confident as a result. So far - nothing especially shocking or original. You figure you know how this is going to end. Except that it doesn't end that way. It ends with a classic pyrhhic victory. Garfield, indeed, motivates Rita (who ends up addressing the graduating class on the subject of - guess what - pyrhhic victories. But the cost involved with motivating her is huge - Garfield first loses his soul in a way, descending to the level of his troubled, violent students, and then eventually loses his life. In the end, unlike most teachers in this kind of movie, Garfield isn't a figure you either sympathize with or admire.So, it's different from most of these kinds of movies. That spark of originality - which, once it began, threw me - is worth some credit to Scott Yagemann, a former Los Angeles high school teacher who wrote the script. But that spark of originality (that variation from the formula) didn't save this movie for me. It was OK, but nothing more than that. One thing that threw me was that it suffered from what most high school movies suffer from - actors who just look too old for the part. These just didn't look like high school kids to me. Take Rita, for example. She was played by an actress named Karina Arroyave - who would have been in her mid-late 20's when this was made. That's the same age range as Clifton Collins, who played Cesar - one of the main protagonists among the male students. I realize that they couldn't very well use high school age actors and actresses - Arroyave has a nude scene - but it took away a bit from the realism of the story. As, by the way, did that nude scene. Not so much that it happened. I could understand a suspicious Rita assuming that since Garfield had invited her to his home for tutoring, what he really wanted was something else. It just, to me, didn't make sense that Garfield would be naive enough to invite a female student to his home.If Scott Yagemann based this at all on his own experiences as a teacher, then it's certainly a grim picture of life in inner city LA schools - and the closing captions presented a sobering picture of the problem of student violence against teachers. Still, though, I didn't find it an especially great movie - although it did capture perfectly the essence of the pyrhhic victory. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson, as a teacher, faces extremely difficult teens","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Eight Seven holds your attention and entertains. It's also an unusual story with unexpected twists and outcomes. In these respects, it's above average.Samuel L. Jackson teaches in a rough school in Brooklyn, and he is an excellent teacher. However, he is viciously stabbed by a student. The film, written by a high school teacher, lets us know in no uncertain terms that teaching in many city schools is now a dangerous job. He shows us students who are so unruly that they are not fit for classrooms. The film also suggests that these students have legal advantages, such that they can constantly challenge teachers and disrupt classrooms and get away with it.Movies don't provide deep social analyses, and so there are no deep explanations of how these dire conditions in the schools have come about. With this social breakdown as a factor permeating schools, the film explores Jackson's attempt to deal with the stabbing. He leaves Brooklyn and gets a job substituting in a system that is just as bad, which is Los Angeles. Why does he do this? He is still trying to be a TEACHER. He thinks of himself in that social role. He still maintains a degree of hope and faith in the system or in his society. He buttresses this with prayer. He hasn't reached the point of giving up on his chosen profession. He's committed to it.But the society and the school rules and a certain number of rebellious young men in his class all conspire to let him down again. He finds himself again a target, despite his goodwill. He still doesn't give up on teaching. Instead, he gives up on social rules and his expectation that society can handle his problems. He goes for personal control of his situation, even to the point of punishing students outside of class for their bad deeds. He becomes his own law.We can only conclude that he is a very confused man. He is getting clear signals to abandon his job, but he tries to stay within this system by controlling it with his own personal and secret violence. This creates an unstable mixture of his own personal law and justice embedded into the societal system, which is itself deeply flawed. The system is paying his salary, but he is going outside it. There is a deep contradiction in this, which is why he is ultimately confused.He attempts to rationalize this confusion. This occurs in the climactic scenes of the movie. (SPOILER AHEAD) He confronts his primary antagonist (Clifton Collins, Jr.) in a duel. It is a suicidal duel. He hopes to alter the values of Collins, even by risking his own life. This action is hopelessly naive, and it does not work. The value he is trying to alter is machismo, but he has really made no effort to understand machismo. Collins in fact tells him that machismo is all he has got. He cannot give it up anymore than Jackson has been able to give up on his profession.Society is offering no healthy outlets for the young men who believe in being manly to demonstrate it or feel it. So instead the machismo manifests in rebellion, disruption, graffiti, drugs, guns, needless violence, fights, and so on. Jackson is clueless about this, and he shouldn't be. But that's the story. What he does is challenge the machismo head on, attempting to prove to Collins that it's stupidity. But it is not stupidity. It is something deeper, cultural, social, and even perhaps part of the aggressive potential in male human beings.Hence, in the end, although the movie is clearly hitting on very important matters that affect all kinds of young people and teachers, the script does not fully rise to the challenge of elucidating the issues behind the problems. "},{"Title":"To Sir With Hate..To Students With Blood !","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" At the end of 1960s the ideal teacher faced his students' disturbance by good understanding and sympathy, then at the 1990s became the only way for the ideal teacher to face his students' savagery is a more wild savagery. So it's not (To Sir With Love) anymore...It's (The Count of Monte Cristo) or (Psycho) ! (187) is the satirical movie in a form of a horror, or it's the case of our nightmare factual life already, or maybe it's one of the most melancholic what if movies ever. But anyway its highest point was that concept of (meet violence with violence) whereas the chaos will bring nothing but chaos, the blood which leads to more blood, and the ultimate havoc will be definitely for the both sides (The teacher and the student) as long as the previous side (the system) is absolute free at decision and insanity ! This is the message of this movie, its good premonition, and its discrete antecedence despite its own exaggerations and its too melodramatic ending.Actually (Kevin Reynolds) made solid, turbid, and dismal atmosphere out of this story by using a lot of elements to express such a dreadful experience. For instance you'll find so many red (blood) and blue (grief) all over the screen, or varies between sick yellow and gloomy black with a hot image in a sweat all the time like they're all (teacher and students) in one cell and no one will let the other live, but that desire was importunate to the extent that you may feel &#x96; especially with the drastic events and that Russian roulette's end ! &#x96; That the movie nearly sunk under it. Although I believe that not all the movies must be dreamy with happy ending but I believe also that the exaggeration of a message can powerfully destroy it, so I think the main problem here is that the well meaning statement became unintentionally overstatement. "},{"Title":"ultimately serves its purpose","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There has been quite a number of movies made on this particular subject, some like the Sidney Poitier one, are classics, some like the one with James Belushi is just plain repetitive and there are some that are mocking the above, like the one with Jon Lovitz, for example. I thought I had seen them all, but this one, I believe in the just purpose of making a point that there is an ever growing part of the civilized world that society has completely lost grip of, manages to almost transcend the genre. Almost because after a gritty opening this one completely loses it's voice in the roaring noise they call score, which is inappropriate, and cheap stylistic bravado like the slow-mo. The accentuation of ever growing anxiety and build-up of retaliative power of the main character, however, plus the gratification of, admittedly this viewer's, too, desire to see some sort of retribution, on the other hand, proves it made its point. "},{"Title":"Not the standard Hollywood fare","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson, in this film, like many others, carries a low-key, dignified charisma which is perfect for his character. I caught most of this on cable a couple of years ago, and I had never heard of the film in its theatrical run. But fans of Jackson must see it. This movie starts out like it is going to be yet another Blackboard Jungle clone. But it's not. Kelly Rowan was quite good, if a bit miscast. Perhaps a black actress might have fitted this role a bit better. And excellent work was turned in by Karina Arroyave. I don't want to spoil the ending, but let's just say that it isn't the standard Hollywood fare. "}{"Title":"Its pretty extreme","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie with great interest. It really has some truth to it, the way kids act in school, and the way they treat their teachers. It also shows the effects a teacher can have on their students, by the way they treat them. Samuel L. Jackson is the over conscious teacher Garfield, who tries to make the lessons interesting and funny for the students, until one day he suffers an attack, which brings him to near death, and from that day on things change drastically for him. It is an interesting movie, but not at all breath taking, and it is a little too extreme, the way the teacher changes in his behavior. The students are played very good, and it gives a sort of gang banger feeling, but all in all it has some flaws. Like the behavior shift, the overly aggressive students and the story is somewhat murky. But, if you wanna watch another movie about schools and teachers and students that act crazy and violent, then go watch this, you just might enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Music & Acting make this great","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The thing that made this movie so great was the fact that even though it was a bit over the top at some moments, it was still able to get its point across.  Whether it was the fantastic acting performances from Samuel L. Jackson, Clifton Collins, or John Heard, or the brilliant cinematography, this movie was able to not only keep my attention but leave me amazed by the end. Jackson gives the most convincing performance especially in the Deer Hunter re-enactment.  The other thing that made this movie amazing was the tantalizing music that fit perfectly in every scene.  This is an easy 8/10. "},{"Title":"one of my favorite Jackson films!!","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this may not be a pulp fiction type jackson film, but, i really enjoyed this movie. it was   gritty, intense and realistic. this film follows  Jackson as garfield, a man who is  critically injured in a  new york school, and decides to move and work in a dangerous, unsafe school environment in los angeles. where he confronts, student gang wars, and then finds the students themselves hard to deal with, and finds a few who just want attention from there teacher, garfield. John heard plays a very riveting/insane role as a violent/homicidal like teacher.  jackson then trys to help them out. the only thing i found a bit of a disapointment, was the women who played the teacher who fell in love with garfield a short time. i thought she ruined certain strong points to the movie. i enjoyed clifton collins jr's role, as an aggressive student who is very hard to garfield, and start's to play mixed mind games with him, that was very  fun to see him that way. i thought the female  student, that found jackson's character, garfield  attractive was very good in this movie too. very taught suspenseful thriller is one of jackson's best.  "},{"Title":"Intense and dramatic","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  On the one hand, this movie gained a lot by the sheer presence of Samuel.L.Jackson but, on the other hand, the community of the students was represented in a perfect way. So to speak, full out of life.The gap between the two sides and the life of the teachers was displayed in an uncommitted way. No questions left. Except opening the whole discussion about aggression in schools and how to educate a problematic generation. The show of brutality was unnecessary. We have seen the scenes before in action and other movies. Or was it, to emphasize the conflict? "},{"Title":"This film addresses real life struggles of teachers in problem schools","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Speaking as a teacher from an inner-city school district,  I think 187 is a very realistic portrayal of what many teachers face on a day to day basis. The disrespect of students, the lack of support from administration, the portrayal of good and bad teachers in a bad situation are all realities. As far as the plot goes, I thought that this was a good story with great acting.  I have heard a lot of people criticizing the end of the film, but I don't know that it could have ended any other way.  All in all I think it was well done.  We need more films showing a realistic portrayal of the problems facing certain American schools, because movies like Dangerous Minds sure as hell don't do the job.One final thing I would like to say is that 187 brings up some very good questions such as what makes a good teacher turn bad.  The best line of the entire movie is when Garfield screams with sincerity, I was a teacher, I wanted to help you near the end of the film. This one line hits it on the nose.  Most teachers do go into the profession because they want to help kids but we have created a system which makes this almost impossible in some schools. Consequently a teachers day is not structured around teaching but simply surviving the emotional turmoil of what the profession has become. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have not been so moved by a movie in a long time. My attention was never drawn away for a second. The characters were totally believable and that was the most heart-wrenching part about it. It is pathetic that a teacher has to suffer this much to do his damn job. And I found the female teacher that befriended him just as reprehensible as the gang bangers. She comes to him for help when she is scared for her life and then condemns him for doing something about it.Samuel L. Jackson is one of the finest actors around today and this movie has to be one of his finest moments.I highly recommend this to everyone. The tension never lets up and will keep you glued to your seat.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good flick!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard of this movie, but I never got a chance to see, but I finally saw it and it was impressed.  I thought that it was going to be another Stand and Deliver and/or Dangerous Minds movie, but it wasn't.  It was more than that.  It was the struggles of the teacher, played by Samuel L. Jackson and his wanting to help these kids, but nobody is doing anything about it so he does things his own way.  How he deals with it, I didn't see it coming.  That is what I think made this movie pretty good.  Some parts of the film get you angry and some parts get you happy, but it's the ending that's pretty shocking.  Rent this movie and find out.  This film is a good eye opener about what some schools are like and how many teachers are treated. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and thought provoking, if somewhat flawed","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  187 hits hard in all directions. Upon first viewing, the viewer believes that he or she is about to watch another one of those school movies. You know, the one where that awesome teacher goes into that rotten school and turns it around? 187 takes a different slant. It is not praise for a great teacher nor is it a pure attack on the system. In contrast, 187 attacks the unsympathetic ears of a bureaucratic education system that drives characters like Trevor Garfield into a psychological breakdown.Through some great filmmaking, 187 almost hits all of its marks. Kevin Reynolds helps create a distorted worldview for Garfield. As he slowly settles himself into a classroom after a year's absence, Garfield is presented as the careful, clean, fearful type, who shows his fears on his initial return. He doesn't see or hear things as those around him do.Paired with Garfield's fear is the school's bureaucracy. This helps contribute to Garfield's breakdown. He sees a system that is powerless or does nothing to help the teachers when dealing with delinquent students. His experiences coupled with typical school politics drive him to the edge. This is where the writer makes his criticism.The criticism does not stop there, though. By the end of the film, as we see Garfield creating a rationale no different than his adversaries' for his unforgivable actions, we can no longer sympathize with Garfield. There is also the stark contrast between Jackson's character and Kelly Rowan's character. The difference between the two is that Garfield creates his own rules in a system he feels will not work with him. Rowan's character works within the system to make things work. This is subtly exemplified when she is faced with a racially charged email from one of her students.There are other interesting things that pop up throughout this film that make it an interesting social commentary. There are the elements of school that we all see. We see the teacher who puts up with all the garbage in schools and lives in fear, but learns, through use of the system's resources, can make it (Rowan's character). We see the teacher who is broken after so many years and just goes through the system, angrily, giving little attention to the students (John Heard's awesome performance), and finally, Jackson's character, who is forced to choose which direction to take. He does neither and instead goes to another extreme altogether - taking matters into his own hands. In the students, we witness that these events that we see on television - gangs, weapons at school, school violence - they have stories behind them. The makers of the film do not spare the humanity of the characters, giving characters such as Benny, a seemingly heartless gang member, extra dimensions to personify who they are. When Benny loses his life, we are not greeted with cheers from any ends except Garfield's, and we are soon greeted with Benny's mother. This allows us to see that there is good or was something good behind any of these evil visages that are worth fighting for. Adding this dimension makes us feel for the characters we don't like, as they can be changed.187 suffers one major flaw. Many of the actions are unbelievable. As a picture written to be satirical, that would be okay. 187 does not make any overt jabs at society or light comic criticisms to make it worthy of being a satire, yet it dares to step the line of over exaggerating many of the characters' actions to make a point. It would come off better if the focal characters were more believable - making it a more realistic depiction of problems in urban schools. It would also work if perhaps all aspects were overtly exaggerated to create a surreal, darkly comic atmosphere - this would create a full-fledged satire. 187 does this sometimes, while at other times taking itself too seriously. This is confusing, and makes the overall message less effective. In all its flaws, however, 187 is still remarkable. It's well acted and makes at least some good points about problems in schools. It's also one of the few films that recognizes the plights of teachers - even if it is in a rather precarious approach. The actual filmmaking - the acting, cinematography, direction, and the powerful music - help to aid the sometimes muddled script.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie But Its Been Done Before","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While I was watching this movie i couldnt help but think i'd seen it somewhere else before, then, when the scene came on with the guy sending the teacher the e-mail teacher fu*** ni**ers I then knew that it had been on tv before.But lets reviewOne Eight Seven is a great movie with very few flaws, the acting is excellent, the plot is superb. Samuel L Jackson should have been nominated for at least One Oscar for this movie. 9/10good points actors, actresses, plot bad points can get a little boringif you like this movie i recommend Whiteboyz, The Wood, High School High "},{"Title":"The story is about how teenagers were, their teacher and how gangbangers killed and disrespect their families","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think that the story was pretty good because it seems that everything was realistic. My personal thoughts about the movie areIn the streets there's a lot of hated and jealousy and also there are things that are going on like, students killing their teachers . I think that that if a girl is pretty and she recognize it is very sad seeing  that she's sleeping with guys that they are just disgusting because they are treating her liked a toy that everybody has and grabs.Also I think that if you are a gangbanger you don't have the right to fight with people that don't know anything and also killing them. Also went they are gangbangers they don't have the right to be disrespectful with their parent because there's going to be a time went you're going to need them  and also they have to remember that they are always with you.     "}{"Title":"About a teacher who tries to help some kides.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a 17 year old single mom currently attending school. In Chicago Illinois. I love to read and write. I like to watch movies that are based on everyday life, you know reality. I enjoyed watching 187, it was realistic. This movie is about a teacher who was traumatized. He goes and teaches at a bad school. He tries his best to teach the kids and get them out of trouble, but then again it's up to them to receive help. It shows you how this teacher tried his best in every way, and how he tried to get through to the kids. I give rate this movie at a good 5. It was in between.  "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson confronts the violence of young Americans.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having been transferred to Los Angeles after being seriously injured by one of his pupils, a New York teacher is again confronted with violence. Unlike previous film-makers, who were interested in the development of violence in the American high schools, Kevin Reynolds avoids any simplification to offer a bitter, lucid and particularly disturbing analysis. As for Samuel L. Jackson, he is perfect. "},{"Title":"deeply moving...","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  187 is a film that still plays on in your mind long after watching the film and there is one reason for this.. Sam jackson i mean he is quite simply the man he's an actor you just cant take your eyes off.  187 is unquestionably like dangerous minds but d minds was just a fantasy about a teacher that comes out of no where and makes a difference but 187 shows the realisation of a world like that the grittiness and violence and doesn't have a happy ending. the strangest thing about this movie is it made me think something i have never before  i felt sorry for him as a teacher what he had to put up with, i mean my teachers think they have it bad they should spend a week in a school like the ones in 187.  it took guts for garfield to walk into a class like that and say 'I'm gonna do my job' his passion overuled he tried to make a difference and he did but doesnt go so smoothly like in dangerous minds,                                   so if want my advice forget dangerous minds and get 187 and see Sam Jackson do his job "},{"Title":"A point of view of a student who deals with these issues","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When i first saw this film i can remember certain feelings it drew out of me. Watching this as a school student myself, i found it believable and real, it demonstrates a lot of the situations that young people find themselves in nowadays. The acting from the young cast was exceptional and moving. I especially liked the actor who played Cesar Charlez and as always Samuel.L.Jackson was a controlling presence on screen. I loved the soundtrack some great pieces but also the filming was very good. It felt like you were on some kind of trip, angled shots and strange lighting created an interesting enviroment. Although in the scale of things i might be the only person who remembers this film in ten years it doesn't bother me i loved it. AS an adult looking back on your school days it might seem a little distant but this kind of stuff does go on you can't turn a blind eye. "},{"Title":"Very good film all over","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very suspenseful film, with good suspense and realistic acting.  Complex at times but good twists and conveys emotions well through the camera work and use of light.  Thought provoking and deep as well, a good watch but really something that isn't for those looking for a light movie.  I personally enjoyed it a lot and felt more the wiser for watching it. "},{"Title":"This movie has a great plot and an amazing ending.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who wants to see a good movie with good actors and plots should go out and see this movie.  While teacher Trevor Garfield (Jackson) takes the law into his own hand, the rest of the school is becoming stronger. "},{"Title":"One of the best, if not thee best, school movie ever","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so so good, not because I say so, but because it is. Forget about Dangerous Minds, that movie is too fake as it is. What makes this movie way better than that one, or any other school movie, is its realisticness. I chose to write 'realisticness' even though its not a word, I think, but I wrote it because everyone else who has been writing comments use such long words, that I felt obligated to write down long words of my own. But anyway, back to the movie. This movie is so good. It has a realistic story line, solid acting (like always) by Sammy, great visual feel, and most importantly, I starred in the movie. I'll let you guess who I was. I wasn't one of the main actors. But, okay, back to the movie, I was impressed of how realistic it came out to be. The part where Bennie shoots down that other guy really kept my mouth hangin, of how cruel he is, and how cruel many gangsters and other people really are in this world, me being one of them. But still, watching other people do it, is amazing. The ending was really really mouth dropping too, damn the whole movie was. Watch it! I reccomend it fully. Id give it an 11, but it only goes up to 10. "},{"Title":"Scary because it really happens--a haunting triumph","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I rented 187 I was expecting something like Lean On Me or Dangerous Minds.  What I got was 0% of what I expected.If you think by my previous comment that I'm trashing this film, you're wrong.  This film was excellent.  I just was not prepared for the brutal honesty of the portrait it painted.  It scared the %$#! out of me.  This isn't eXistenZ scary, where your brain gets toyed with, or Hellraiser scary, where your basic elements of horror and gore are put to use.  No Way. 187 is scary because of the fact that the events in the film can--and do--happen.  And this wasn't some rich pompous screenwriter sitting on a pile of cash that wrote this film.  This film was written by an actual teacher--someone who had already treaded the territory, so he knew what he was talking about.  Not only did this film scare the hell out of me, it also gave me a major sense of respect for teachers everywhere.  I remember raising hell in high school, but I'm glad that what I did was nowhere as bad as what happened in the movie.  I couldn't imagine if any of the teachers I had in high school had to teach under such stress and anxiety.In a nutshell, 187 is an excellent film, hands down.  A shining--and brutally honest--urban high school flick.  Ten out of ten.  It should NOT be missed. "},{"Title":"Great movie because of dark atmosphere","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has struck me because of the dark atmosphere throughout the entire movie. Even during the day, the director knows how to create the darkness Garfield feels inside. Great acting, great music. The casting of the love interest (fellow female teacher) could have been better, but no problem at all. Kevin Reynolds has shown with 187 he can do quite a different movie (think of Robin Hood, Waterworld). This low-budget movie is great to watch!! "},{"Title":"5 out of 10","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After being fired by his old friend Kevin Costner from the editing room of his last film WATERWORLD (1995) commercial director Kevin Reynolds, who never really convinced critics but scored a big box-office-hit with ROBIN HOOD KING OF THIEVES (1991), returned to his low-budget-roots with this strongly acted, sometimes absorbing, visually dark, narratively complex, controversy-rising and hard-hitting but wildly uneven and slow-moving drama about a terrified high school teacher who after being almost killed by one of his students fights back with disturbing consequences. Samuel L. Jackson shines as usual in the lead role of this always interesting, but never really original drama. "}{"Title":"Another good Samuel movie. Fightin` against school gangs.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not much to say really. A very different role for Samuel L. Jackson comparing to Pulp Fiction or The Negotiator. That movie shows that Jackson is a brilliant actor for all kinds of movies.Trevor Garfield (Samuel) is a teacher in high school in L.A. He quits after being atacked be his pupil and becomes a substitute. He enters to the school where normal things dont happen very often, nobody wants to learn, nobody has respect to his teachers. Samuel meets a woman, she is a teacher in that school and she's got a problem with one of her students - Benny Chacon. He is a member of one of the gangs. One day he vanishes - noone even thinks that Garfield is responsible for that. In this moment the movie really begins...This movie showes that sometimes you can't win with everyone, that sometimes good will is just not enough. The tragic end for both sides makes the movie even better. You should all pay atention on the atmosphere which is build in this film - music (Massive Atack ), the light - even during the day there is darkness.For all fans of Samuel L. Jackson!  "},{"Title":"Confused movie","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The premise behind this picture was that a high school teacher could be pushed too far that he forsakes all his much cherished ideals.An impressive idea which goes horribly wrong in this attempt. "},{"Title":"This is to dangerous minds what Godzilla is to Barney's movie!","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A brilliant, if exaggerated, or the opposite, I don't know, I only live in the british countryside, but it is gritty without being gratuitous in the violence department. It is genuinly shocking in parts (the graffiti scene left me open mouthed) but a shocking ending, and everything turns out in favour of the realistic, as opposed to the stupid ending to dangerous minds.  "},{"Title":"Standing out in a populous genre","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'll just add my few thoughts and commendations to the well-observed comments already posted.  I thought that, although this movie does have to exist alongside other public schools gone bad movies, it does so with a mythic dimension that is well represented in line and form by Samuel L. Jackson, a truly brilliant actor.  This movie did everything that *Falling Down* could not, taking a geekish, idealistic teacher and throwing him into a totally depraved hell.  His reactions and transformations, though extreme, are understandable and moving. This film, unlike so many others like it, doesn't insult the audience. Instead it provokes us, and I think meaningfully.    "},{"Title":"The Apocalypse Now of School Movies","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie itself is good and at least a 3 star effort with great acting and all but the real element of the film is its photography and soundtrack. The shots of the school mixed in with the music give it a sort of urban jungle feel and the colors are very good. The gritty blue at the start is very good and the movie doesn't really exaggerate about how bad its students are. Like other teacher movies it doesn't try to show the teacher reaching the kids and them finally loving him or some corny unrealistic stuff like that. It is a very good film and should be watched because of its story and its uniqueness "},{"Title":"Samuel and a twist ending save this Stand and Deliver/Lean on Me wannabe","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jackson is superb and can seemingly save any film in which he has a part (a la The Negotiator, Eve's Bayou).  The script is nothing that hasn't been touched on before.  Inner city kids are bad, yet there is always one smart one who tries to break through.  What I thought was interesting was the Death Wish twist.  Now while this aspect is not necessarily new either (The Substitute 1 and 2), 187 does it much better.  The ending, while not exactly happy, was a good one and is what ultimately keeps me remembering the film. "},{"Title":"True grit","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was a well performed movie. At first I was aghast at the end, but after the thought it is a movie about real life. It does not soften the end or the plot just to give it a happy ending. The movie opens your eyes and really pushes an important ides of what is happening in the public school system. "},{"Title":"one of my all-time favorites","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've always known Samuel L Jackson to be a great actor.  This movie was a strong reminder of the fact.  Aside from the performances (all were brilliant), the plot is intelligent and raises a lot of moral questions rarely addressed by the almighty Hollywood.  I like everything about this film.  Obviously, it is not a particularly cheerful flick, but definitely worth watching.  It's just too bad so few people know about it, which is the case with most good films. "},{"Title":"Great and Disturbing Film","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel Jackson has done it again. Another strong performance. Very well done. You could say a 'darker' and 'pessimistic' Dangerous Minds.The only thing that I think spoilt it for me was the ending, where the film tries to say that everything was not lost, a bit too Hollywood for me.If this is half the truth about inner city US schools, then it's really a scary place. I wouldn't want to find myself teaching there...Go and see it!A previous Teacher...Kam.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, what a ride!","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not only by the fact that this was a great movie but also by the fact that I somehow never heard of it for almost 20 years! I consider myself a movie collector and I love sam L Jackson and love gang related movies. (Blood in blood out, boysndahood...) When I saw this movie at the video club I bought it for eight bucks without even knowing what it was. What a surprise. My first impression was that the cinematography was beautiful and the acting was great. Then after a while I felt like it was a bit more concentrated on the teacher side of the story and not enough on the students whom were made to look like evil people who are bad 24 seven.Spoilers Then the whole finger cutting scene and the Dead body found in the river scene came and I was like' WoW!' For a bit there I thought that the white teacher would turn out to be the killer and I was like 'oh no don't bring me that twist, that's going to be disappointing' And they didn't! Superb movie! 8/10 "}{"Title":"The Real life","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"      Not only does Samuel L. Jackson adds another great charecther to us in his film history,but also gives a scary performance showing what will happen when a good person goes bad in a good way.    Trevor Garfield has given up teaching in a way,after horrible killing attempt againist him.Now in a diffient city he is call back to teaching,where he hopes he at least reach to some of his students.But feeling what happen to him and seeing what's going on will not only change he's beliefs,but also himself into a world like the students,but beyond that to a point of no turning back.    This film came out at a time where people would say,Now that can't really happen.Now in a new age people are starting to look back at what there saying.This film that hooks up to the real life should be shown at high schools everywhere. "},{"Title":"great camerawork, convoluted message","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  187 is a well done, almost beautiful film that has some major flaws. First of all, it is nearly impossible to sympathize with any of the characters. Jackson's is an admirable man who goes psycho.  His love interest's is not developed enough to have any kind of emotional impact on the audience. And all of the students are portrayed as ignorant, depraved, and downright evil.The film perpetuates racial stereotypes and instills a fear of the urban poor, without offering any solutions or any deep investigation of the root of the problem.  Also, some of the dialogue is a little trite.That said, 187 is fun to watch.  Jackson is always interesting, and the dynamic camerawork combined with the smoggy, yellow light of East LA creates a steady mood and eerie feeling.  It's probably the best of the dedicated teacher in a bad neighborhood genre of the 90s.  But that's not saying much. "},{"Title":"Are you done yet?","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson stars in this movie about a teacher that becomes disillusioned by the system. As I watched the movie, I couldn't help draw parallels with Taxi Driver, especially the cathartic ending. The message was right on target, if not the scene that provided it. The dingy cinematography evokes the trapped feeling we get when we see the classroom scenes; these kids will remain trapped long after high school. The things that I find a turn-off in these kind of movies, such as Dangerous Minds, The Substitute series, etc., are the 30 year old actors they get to play high school students. However, it might not be surprising to find 30 year old high school students these days. Overall, I felt the movie had little direction. You didn't know where the movie was leading to, right up until the end. The controversial ending was not exactly satisfying either. Surely the same point could have been made while being consistent with Jackson's character. As it is, he made a comment here that was antithetical to everything we'd seen up to this point. It kind of negates everything he was. Character issues are left unresolved also, especially with the female teacher, who seemed to disappear from the movie near the end. We are also left with the ambiguity of the main plot resolution. Or maybe that's the point. Is anybody ever going to solve these problems in our schools? **1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Solid intelligent film that carries it's point a bit far but takes the audience with it","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  High school teacher Trevor Garfield is confronted by the words `Garfield 187' scribbled in his book minutes before he is stabbed in the school corridor.  A year later he is physically recovered and is working as a substitute teacher in LA.  He takes a tempt job in a violent school and immediately comes up against a gang mentality.  Unsupported by the school (who are more worried about law suits from the pupils) and threatened by violent pupils, Garfield begins to change his game and abandon who he once was.I have seen this film several times and it carries enough weight for me to watch it every now and again.  It is a subject that has come up in several films but this is one of the better ones because it has a more intelligent approach even if it pushes it's point further than I expected.  As opposed to Dangerous Minds having gangbangers brought round by poetry, 187 has the gangbangers bringing the teachers to breaking point where nothing but the most drastic action will make an impact.  The film (written by a teacher) takes it's point to the extreme but does so in a way that is acceptable.  It's central points about lack of protection for teachers in dangerous classes and schools that are out of control are well made and well served by a good thriller/drama storyline.I suspect many will feel it went too far and is a bit unrealistic but if we take the character of Garfield as an extension of the frustrations and feelings of teachers Yagemann has encountered over his years then it makes a bit more sense.  Jackson leads the film very well and plays it just right throughout &#150; he never lets his character become crazy, pathetic or unsympathetic, but keeps the audience with him if not totally accepting his actions.  The support cast are alright but many of the pupils are clichés that could have walked in from any inner-city movie without any trouble &#150; some are individuals but many just fit a mould.  Heard is OK but really Jackson carries the film and he does it well.Overall this is a good movie that takes a different look at inner-city high schools.  Instead of teachers preserving and winning gangsters over with the poetry of Bob Dylan, here teachers are worn down by violent, threatening pupils and a system that doesn't protect them.  It may take it's point to the extreme but the situation here is a lot more realistic for some schools than some idealistic nonsense that has been served up. "},{"Title":"Sombre, depressive, unentertaining and mainly dislikeable.","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"                     POSSIBLE SPOILER187 is as bitter and unwatchable as films come. Its gritty take on the average gangland high school sure isn't a pretty one. The real problem here is that there isn't a trace of hope throughout the movie. While similarly themed movies such as Dangerous Minds followed the same plotlines, they left you feeling moderately satisfied. 187 just leaves you depressed and the dim-lit backdrops don't help the film either. Samuel L. Jackson slowly turns insane throughout the movie and about half way through, you stop routing for him and just hope the movie will end on a good note. The supporting cast isn't very likeable either.Overall, you'll probably think 187 is one of two things. An unglamorous, but humane portrayal of the American high school. Or you'll think it's dull, unattractive and loathable. I chose the latter, 4.5/10. "},{"Title":"Dangerous Minds with a strange twist","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  187. One word can describe it. Excellent. One of the best drmatic movies ever made in my opinion. Far better than any other gang-related movie. It starts off when a teacher, Mr. Garfield (Samuel L. Jackson), finds 187 written all over his textbooks. He takes it to the principal of the school but gets no response but, If I could have a dollar for every time a student threatened faculty.... Samuel L. Jackson plays a wonderful role in this superb drama.  "},{"Title":"Kept me riveted","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I actually stumbled across this movie on premium cable.  At first I was only mildly interested in watching it.  But before I knew it, I couldn't take my eyes off the screen.  It is unusual for me not to figure out the punchline to a movie very early on, but this movie didn't allow my mind to even go there.  I was very pleasantly surprised by this movie and would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"One of the best in 1997","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the 1990's there were a lot of movies like 187. Movies that displayed students who had no conceran with there education or what was going on in there lives. However, this movies often ended up with a happpy ending with the kids seeing the light and becoming stright A students by the end of the film. In my opinion this movie gave a very good view on what some high school are really like in today's world. Both Samuel L Jackson and John Heard did great acting through the entie film. Some may say that the ending for 187 was unclear and did no send a message. It's ending is what I think makes this film stand out from all the rest. 9 out 10 this would be a great movie not to just rent but to own also. "},{"Title":"Music & Acting make this great","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The thing that made this movie so great was the fact that even though it was a bit over the top at some moments, it was still able to get its point across.  Whether it was the fantastic acting performances from Samuel L. Jackson, Clifton Collins, or John Heard, or the brilliant cinematography, this movie was able to not only keep my attention but leave me amazed by the end. Jackson gives the most convincing performance especially in the Deer Hunter re-enactment.  The other thing that made this movie amazing was the tantalizing music that fit perfectly in every scene.  This is an easy 8/10. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, wonderful.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I hadn't heard of this movie until my husband brought it home from the video store.  While it was very gritty and disturbing, it was one of the best movies I have seen in a long time.  The story was riveting, the performances very realistic.   "}{"Title":"Vivid revisitation of the Blackboard Jungle premise.","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Every now and then a movie is completely ignored or misunderstood by audiences AND critics alike. 187 contains some of the most dazzling, precise, ingenious, brilliant, inspired filmmaking in decades. Truly experimental in for, it re-elaborates an old premise with unexpected freshness, great sincerity and both earnestness and precision in its storytelling. I am only saddened to think that so many saw so little of it. Reynolds finally establishes in my book as the fulfilled promise of the man that shot THE BEAST. "},{"Title":"watchable, but doesn't provide much new insight","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Trevor Garfield is an intelligent, devoted teacher who's never wanted to do anything in his life but teach. He's an innovative and well-respected instructor in the harsh N.Y.C. public school system, until a violent stabbing at the hands of a troubled student robs him of his passion and dignity. He transfers out to a public school in L.A.'s San Fernando Valley where he faces the same type of violence and hostility, and a school board administration that seems unwilling to help. Well-intended drama has many engrossing moments, and is acted with strength and conviction, but the central message is obvious and the finale goes overboard straining credibility. **½ "},{"Title":"pretty forgetable","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't really have much interest when I went to see this, and I wasn't over thrilled by the final result.  Jackson is solid as the man on a mission, but he can't carry the whole thing. I might have considered this a higher brow movie for 97, but in the long run..its a sub-par effort. "},{"Title":"A 90's 'To Sir with Love'","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although Jackson could not be regarded as a 90's Sidney Poitier (even if Denzel Washington could), 'One Eight Seven' is a kind of modern variation on 'To Sir with Love' and the previous Morgan Freeman film set in an urban school carrying a baseball bat. The film does display Jackson's talents as an actor, and you engage with him from beginning to end. A good film to have in your video collection. "},{"Title":"A bleak, intense movie, with a stirring performance by Samuel L Jackson","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While this movie starts looking like another bad school-good teacher feel-good movie like Dangerous Minds, it soon degenerates into a hard-hitting look at todays schools, complete with gang-related killings, an indifferent faculty and one teacher trying to make a difference. Reynolds uses interesting camera effects, and a decent hip-hop soundtrack to make this film unforgettable. Samuel L Jackson does an extremely good job as Trevor Garfield, a teacher who loses his will to teach, and eventually gets his own back. Overall, strong acting from the leading man, interesting cinematographic effects and a moving plotline. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Weak finish, but very strong film (Minor Spoilers)","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw 187 at the theatres around August 1997, I had really no clue what it was about and only read Owen Glieberman's C- review in Entertainment Weekly. I was still excited on seeing it since Samuel L. Jackson is an amazing actor and can make a lousy movie (look at Long Kiss Goodnight) worthwhile. When seeing this at the movies, I was really impressed with how great I thought it was. I told friends all around to go see it and even went to see it again, thought it died out fast from the box office. When finally debuting on video in December, I rented it several times until getting ahold of a copy. I finally put it on again since it's been a while since I've seen it. The film still is pretty impressive. Jackson is perfectly cast as the p.o'ed teacher and it surprised me that the oscars missed him. He's amazing to watch and you feel his characters breakdown the whole way through. John Heard is also strong as a burnt out teacher and Clifton Gonzales-Gonzales is excellent as the troubled teen who tries to make Jackson's life a living hell. The screenplay by Scott Yagemann, who was a real teacher, is realistic, tough, and never holds back even when going over the edge. It isn't quite your standard Dangerous Minds like movie. Kevin Reynolds works better on a low budget and seems better working on stuff like this better than he does on Waterworld. Ericon Core as the cinematography uses a cool, grainy look that goes real well with Jacksons breakdown in the film. The score, taken from Massive Attack songs, goes real well with the films urban atmosphere and sounds great. The Russian Roulette finale is pretty shocking too and Jackson and Gonzales really show their strong acting muscles in this scene. On the down-side, there were a few things that bugged me from enjoying the movie as much. Kelly Rowan is miscast as the frightened teacher who Jackson falls for, though I didn't understand why she is disgusted at Jackson when (WARNING SPOILER) she figures out that he kills Benny, the obnoxious kid who keeps on harrassing her (SPOILER FINISHED). Karina Arroyave (Lean on Me, Dangerous Minds) as a pupil of Jacksons who looks forward to him for help is another actress who seems miscast since she seems ten years too old for the role. The finale with Arroyave's speech seems forced, being both preachy and sentimental. If you can get past the small things that bugged me, 187 is a very tough and riveting drama that really impresses me the more I watch it. It deserves a look. "},{"Title":"A lot like Falling Down","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you (like me) love Falling Down, you will love this. It's kinda the same. Someone gets pushed over the edge so far, you kill. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Fine Performances, Depressing Movie!","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel Jackson turns in his usual fine performnce.  He is a multi-talented actor, as good at showing pathos as he is in action movies.POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD This movie relates the story of a good teacher from an American inner city school who gets stabbed by a pupil he fails.  His life as a teacher is ruined and he finds himself doing supply teaching work.He is allocated to another school with a similarly disruptive class and a gang element, who set out to make life hell for him.  He fights back and gives them some of their own medicine.The performances throughout are excellent, from Samuel Jackson as the teacher to Kelly Rowan as the young lady teacher, equally afraid of her class.  The final scenes are quite dramatic and extremely well played with powerful acting by both Jackson and the gang members.Ultimately, however, it is a depressing film (are American Schools really like that?  It is claimed to have been written by a teacher!!!).I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Jackson's solid performance can't make up for uneven film","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson plays Trevor Garfield, a New York teacher who possesses a great passion for his job.  However, after he is nearly killed by one of his students, Garfield relocates to Los Angeles and continues to teach as a substitute teacher.  There, he's assigned to teach a class at a school, where a Latino gang controls the classroom.  The gang even intimidates the administration by threatening them with lawsuits.  So, when Garfield is terrorized by the gang, he is forced to play by his own rules.Jackson is quite good, but even his performance alone can't save this uneven film.  There seems to be a lack of direction within the script.  During the first half, director Kevin Reynolds allows the audience to sympathize with Jackson's character and respect his integrity.  However, the film crashes during the second half.  The plot begins to lack sense and the script loads up on cliches.  As a result, what started out as an interesting take on the violence that teachers face, quickly turns into average fare. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Strong start, but in the end very disappointing","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I won't write down with many words here what Ebert and Berardinelli described very precisely this is a movie that could have been great, if it wouldn't be for the last third.Check out their reviews, they took the words right out of my mouth.I liked Jackson very much, and the music was good.Being a teacher myself I was interested in how he was dealing with the situation, if there would be some kind of message for teachers and/or the kids.Well, unfortunately there was none.So I can't really recommend this film, though I liked the first half very much. "}{"Title":"The following comments were written by a real movie patron.","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  187 is all about Jackson as a teacher who is driven to taking matters into his own hands when confronted by a class full of gangbangers in an L.A. high school. The film offers good stylistics and Jackson does a stand up job given the stupid character he has to play. However, this flick 187's itself with nonsense heaped upon nonsense as it tries and fails to build that bloodthirsty desire to see the street punks off'd by the teacher which made the likes of The Principal or The Substitute series popular. Instead, 187 outsmarts itself and veers headlong into la-la-land as its characters follow with obviously scripted behavior to a very unsatisfying conclusion. File this one under D for desperate. (C+)Note - 187 tries to cement its credibility with a dumb Johnny-threw-his-Crayon-at-me statistic and advising it was written by a real teacher suggesting the producers may have been more concerned about the film's credibility than anyone else. "},{"Title":"A cross between Dangerous Minds and Psycho.","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had no idea what I was getting into when I switched to a broadcast of One Eight Seven the other night. Having grown up in a quiet Canadian suburb, I was absolutely shocked at the hellish portrayal of East L.A. and the sex and violence inherent in that area. At first, I couldn't believe that things could possibly be that bad. I mean, look at Dangerous Minds! Granted, things got bad, but they glossed over most of it and made everybody Hollywood pretty. Not so in One Eight Seven. I'm not sure which is closer to the truth, as I am determined to stay FAR away from East L.A.Samuel L. Jackson was fantastic in a role that can only be described as completely, insanely psychotic. The caring, compassionate teacher by day, who would suspect Mr. Garfield of killing one student and seriously maiming another? But as soon as the first student disappears, the viewer immediately has a horrible, sickening sense of the truth.The end had me completely floored (yes, I saw it coming, but still. HOLY GUACAMOLE!) I was, and am still, totally shocked by the fact that an environment like East L.A., and a school like One Eight Seven can actually exist in today's world. But I'm afraid that it's oh so true. Maybe not where I live, maybe not where you live, but definitely here in North America, where we're supposed to be enlightened and aware. Scary stuff - NOT for the faint of heart (or stomach). "},{"Title":"Another Movie Where Samuel L. Jackson Plays A Good Guy.","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson plays teacher Trevor Garfield in a rough NYC high school. He was a dedicated teacher who felt threatened by a student. Why didn't the principal do something? He gets stabbed several times by the student after leaving the apathetic principal's office! Fifteen months later, he ends up in LA. The sub line called him to sub in one of the most rundown, worst high schools in LA. Subs do not make a lot of money! The average person would have walked out of that school and never returned. But Mr. Garfield stayed for a while until another apathetic principal fired him! Why did Mr. Garfield cry in front of the principal? Embarrassing! And why did he let a female student come into his house anyway? She ended up naked on his sofa! It is obvious that the administration let the students walk all over the teachers in that school. Caesar and Bennie should have been expelled and sent to a detention home! And the history teacher who had a gun in his desk should have been fired on the spot and have his teacher's license revoked! There was one thing that was never proved in the movie. Did Mr. Garfield kill Bennie and cut off Caesar's finger? "},{"Title":"Serious error...","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The teacher who is attacked in New York find a yearbook with the number 187 written in it. This leads him to believe that his life is being threatened because penal code 187 is supposedly murder. The problem is, in New York, penal code 125 is murder. In California, where he moves, penal code 187 is murder. Using that code in New York is a serious factual error that detracts from the overall quality of the writing and research that goes into a credible movie.Aside from that,the movie is OK, but some of the acting is extremely weak. Even from Hurt and Jackson. The student gangstah parts are particularly weak and cliché. It's a disappointing attempt at an American version of To Sir With Love, and it doesn't quite make it. "},{"Title":"187-the number of death","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" First when I saw the cover I thought Hey, a movie with Samuel L. Jackson. It could be a quite interesting and amazing film. After watching the first few minutes of this film I thought that it was one of those typical American-Gangster-High-School-Films.Nothing against these, I love such movies, really, but I thought it. Doesn't matter.Why I had this thought? Because in these movies are black or Hispanic pupils. In this one they were Hispanics. Well. The second significant thing is that in all these films there are the gangster rappers, the shy ones, the brutal ones and the nice ones together in one class. So in this film. The teacher is a black guy and his class is not really the best and nicest one.After watching the movie it was a kind of/a bit of watching one of those characteristic films, but not really. Why? There's the question one more time.Because the teacher is a little bit mad and completely crazy. Well, he is mad since he was stabbed by one student in another resp. his old school. Now he isn't any longer the teacher who wants to change the world. Not really. No, now he wants to get his methods through however he cans. He shows that he is the boss. He helps those ones who need the help and show his anger to those ones who frighten him and show him a certain hate. I mean he cuts off the finger of one of the pupils and kills another one. In the most other films the teacher wants to help them and this more or less radically. In most cases this film genre is funny, brutal or a true story. "},{"Title":"I was shocked","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before I saw this, I thought it's just a school drama like Dangerous Minds. But This is totally different.You should see it!!  "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie!!!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There really isn't enough good things I can say about this movie.  I really can't say why I liked this movie so much, cause if I did, it would ruin the movie for you.  I thought this movie had a great story with a great cast and a great point to make.I like comparing this movie to Dangerous Minds because these films are very similar and very different at the same time.  They both have to do with a high school teacher in an inner-city school trying their best to better the students.  But here's the difference, in Dangerous Minds, Michelle Pfiefer's character actually reaches the students and befriends them.  In 187 Samuel L. Jackson's character tries to reach the students, but the bulk of them refuse to be reached despite his best attempts to help them.Anyhow, I thought the movie was excellent, and I would definitely recommend seeing this film.  I have to give props to Kevin Reynolds, he's a great director!  I've loved every movie I've seen of his so far Waterworld, Robin Hood Prince of Thieves, The Beast, and the Count of Monte Cristo.  Do yourself a favor and see this film.  Hopefully it'll give you a new respect for teachers and professors.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"Great film thanks to Samuel L. Jackson","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  187 is a great film.  Samuel L. Jackson was great in his role as a hardened teacher who wanted to do nothing but teach.  I liked this film particularly because it shows what kind of bad things can happen to a good person.  I also liked it because it these things really happen in real life. Teachers getting attacked or harassed by students.  A powerful film, not to be missed. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great! No more sugarcoated inner-city school stories","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie 187 really got to me because of its ending, which I will not give away. Samuel L. Jackson did a brilliant job of portrayed a mentally and physically abused teacher. Clifton Gonzalez Gonzalez also did a good job as Cesar, the young kid would probably be better if he had been raised in a safer enviroment. You don't feel pity for him until the very end, the showdown between him and Jackson. The music is haunting and fits the movie perfectly. Throw DANGEROUS MINDS and THE SUBSTITUTE in the garbage. This is a great, underrated film! "},{"Title":"Makes me think about teaching","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have spent the last year working to get my teaching certificate. Watching this movie makes me wonder if I really want to keep going.Teaching in the inner city is a dangerous profession. Yes, I imagine there are a lot of teachers like Dave (John Heard) who are just in it for the money.I can understand why someone like Trevor (Samuel L. Jackson) can give up on the dream.Watching this film will cause you to question just what the limits are and whether you can deal with them. It was a strong performance by Jackson. "}{"Title":"Lame Morality Tale","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Samuel Jackson is a teacher who's subject to violence. He starts at a new school straight out of el barrio and the kids are not OK! Is Jackson gonna stay on the straight and narrow as a teach or go all Charles Bronson on em? This film latched on to the 'Dangerous Minds' wave, I suppose. Where 'Dangerous Minds' had some shred of intelligence, feeling and realism to it, this thing just comes off all lame. It tries to come at the subject in a provocative way, but ends in nothing but another morality tale. With violence sprinkled on top. There is a war going on between teachers and students as Jackson tries to bring order to a school full of gang members, killers and rapists. The insights provided here are on the level of lunch room rants from a teacher with a severe case of post traumatic stress disorder.In a socially disrupted neighborhood, of course you are going to have bad schools. Its not about the students, or the teachers. Its about having your life destroyed by socioeconomic forces. Then you can talk about how people need to take responsibility for their own lives all you want. That is not the point. People will take responsibility for their lives if indeed they do have lives. Not if all that is left is a torn apart dead end existence. So to end bad schools, you need to end bad society. Pitting teachers against students in this way, making their interaction the problem, is just dumb. The film also has got a hint of that at the end. But its not enough, and adding 'a teacher wrote this' to the credits really does not help much. Worst The Teach Knows Best film since James Belushis 'The Principal'. "},{"Title":"187 Dead on Arrival","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" OK, so this is not going to be Lean on Me with Morgan Freeman or even Dangerous Minds released just a year earlier. It's much darker and I have no problem with a film not following a conventional plot, in fact, I encourage it. But what should have ended as a halfway thought-provoking film fails miserably with a script and dialogue so paper thin you could shred it and horrible acting throughout from just about everyone except Samuel Jackson and John Heard. Also, for a drama film based on reality, there are some unbelievable circumstances throughout. For example, if a teacher was to appear in court as a material witness against a student who committed a crime, do you really think public school administrators would allow the student and teacher to stay at the same school, more less the same dang class?! And yet the principal of the school is always overly sensitive to the possibility that any student-teacher conflict could cause a lawsuit. Yet nobody thought to advise him on how bad of an idea that was? Someone tell me the logic in this.Anyway, the ending will leave you scratching your head while your jaw is still hanging throughout the long ending. You'll be thinking What just happened? Was there a lesson learned? Did this ending (or film) have a point; a story to tell? Yes, it does. The story is There is a reason why this film has been forgotten while great films like Dangerous Minds and Lean on Me have not. Spare yourself the misery. "},{"Title":"this movie wasn't that bad","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have seen a lot of films similar to this from Stand and Deliver to Substitute to Dangerous Minds, but this one was pretty good and I liked it.A New York teacher is stabbed by a gang member because he failed him, so he relocates to L.A. and becomes a sub. There he finds its chocked full of gang members as well. He tries to make a difference, but sees that some of these kids are making it difficult so he becomes a vigilante and wipes out one and tortures others. The kids retaliate and although he helps some students, ultimately its questionable as to whether or not his methods were worth it.The production was pretty good and it was basic, yet it all seemed to somehow stand out from the rest. The acting was great Samuel L. Jackson was perfect for the role, he is one of the coolest actors ever, and it was nice to see him acting scared and being more human and realistic as opposed to being all Bad A**. I thought Method Man did good in his first film too.It's not a gang movie, its a drama about problems being faced in areas that have many gang members. It's always a nice topic to discuss and make people take notice of. A lot of the problems in these areas in and out of the classrooms have to do with the fact many of these kids cant get the educations they need and deserve.I recommend it it to anyone wanting a good drama..4 out of 10 stars.. "},{"Title":"Sequel to 7? Definitely not a prequel for 1984.","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Great, I thought, Samuel L Jackson. And he's definitely stellar. But he's also the disappointing tip of an incoherent iceberg of a flick. There are so many ideas still-born and undeveloped, and so much time wasted padding out these anecdotal parasites on the narrative that the film just gets boring. You feel like shouting 'Get on with it!' (I did, I watched it at home). The jingle-style ideology statements inserted into every classroom scene (of the classroom 'This place is a Sanctuary!'), mixed focus, slo-mo, rocking shots and filters (blue for NYC, ochre for LA, geddit?) are all excessive. Alas this patronising film-making is a likely corollary to the prejudiced way in which the 'failing students' featured in the film are treated.At the end we are told 'A teacher wrote this movie'. Well, there's the problem, the studio should have employed a screenplay writer. 2/10 "},{"Title":"The dependable Sam Jackson saves an otherwise average film.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  187 is a film that attempts to capture the pot-boiler intensity of urban high schools. I emphasize attempts, because much of the film comes across as heavy-handed. It flirts between being an urban drama, an exploitative thriller, and a revenge film. All the while, director Kevin Reynolds (he of the dehydrated mess that was Waterworld) aims to generate a sense of atmosphere through camera tricks and a trip-hop soundtrack (which pretty much works, thanks to the likes of Galliano, DJ Shadow, and Massive Attack). The main saving grace comes from Samuel L. Jackson, delivering a solid performance as a tormented, weather-beaten man who misses the passion he once had for his job. The scope and intent are present, but the ending is disappointing, and the emotions that are there seem manufactured and don't ring true. All in all, an admirable effort that should have been (and could have been) so much more. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'll make this short, like my interest in this mudpile of a film. If you enjoy watching a movie that features awful production design, a lousy soundtrack, the tiresome inner-city-teacher-versus-the-tough-students plot, cruelty to animals, and young Mexicans in stereotyped (as usual) roles, then this dud's for you.The only thing I liked was the ending, because it does contain an interesting swerve...and it also meant this junk was over.Pretty much all the inner-city school films are bad, but 187 is easily the Hindenburg of the genre. If you want to see the best films in this group, then I recommend Lean On Me or Stand and Deliver.1/10...because I can't go any lower than that. "},{"Title":"Awful, just awful","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What ever Samuel Jackson got paid to appear in this potboiler was way too much. There must be a better use for celluloid than this film. If not the worst film I have seen it is up among the top ten. Just the premise is plain stupid. A teacher survives a brutal and almost fatal attack in a New York School and what does he do after he recovers; he moves to California to become a substitute in an even more brutal environment. The rest of this trite formula film is so obvious it hurts. The film would have been better off if all of it had ended up on the cutting room floor. Life is short, don't waste it watching this trash. "}]