[{"Title":"a hidden pearl in the cheap movie bin","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" My friend bought this movie out of the $5 bin at Walmart for a laugh. I was just expecting a stupid, mindless romantic comedy. What I found was a brilliant piece of work. The script is quite impressive. The story actually focuses on the Best Men like it says, not on the bride and groom. The whole film is chock full of lovable (and not so lovable) vibrant characters from nerdy little Teddy to Billy, the classical romantic hero, to Buzz the top-notch soldier with a heart of gold to Sol the lawyer you don't want to trust. Why had I never heard of this movie before?!? This definitely deserves a place on the shelf for anyone who loves comedy and good writing. "},{"Title":"A love story with enough action to keep the guys happy.","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Great movie..it has comedy, drama, unexpected events, love and real interaction among friends..people you know slightly and total strangers who interact and mesh well in the storyline. Good cast; and for all of you Dean Cain fans, he shows a buff chest. Drew adds an interesting twist to the bride-to-be. Luke Wilson is again great in his role, he gives real depth to his role. The male stars interact like they actually know their roles and the little quirks in their relationships just seems to draw you more into the story and Drew is believable as the bride to be and has a friendship with each of the 5 male stars. I seldom recommend movies, but this is definitely one I plan on seeing a few times just because it was written so well I know I probably missed a few things the first time. "},{"Title":"Quite good","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie started out very promisingly and I thought that it was going to be a hilarious comedy. But it turned out to be better than that. The characters of each person have been acted out flawlessly. The setting is good.I can see why some people did not like it. They expected a comedy and got a drama instead. It has a bit of comedy in it, but I guess people were expecting more.  The lines recited from Shakespeare are extremely well chosen and just right for the movie. This, by the way, encouraged me to read Hamlet.The role of Drew Barrymore is small, but significant. It was quite funny seeing the whole public against the FBI. The ending was quite unexpected.Anyway, I think that this is a beautiful movie and should be seen with an open mind.  "},{"Title":"One of those rare near-perfect movies.","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Never heard of this movie, but it was the best bet on the box. Had a thoroughly good time! Excellent writing, direction and performances. Nothing unpredictable - the Hamlet tie-in says it all, even the characters know they are playing out a tragedy and tell each other. But the predictability of the plot comes from the inevitability of the scenario, which in turn comes from the characters. If the resolutions are a little trite, its because its basically a tragedy played out on an action comedy set and there isn't time to beat about the bush. If you liked the wit and love of life in Strictly Ballroom, you'll like this. "},{"Title":"Not what you would expect...","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I was thinking that it would be a comedy. Instead, this movie turned out to be more of a drama.  I was very surprised with this movie and even a little curious as to why I had never heard of it before seeing it at the video store.  Perhaps it is because it isn't a comedy like most people would expect.  I really liked this movie.  It isn't a vehicle for Drew Barrymore, if that is what you are expecting, but her part is one that she does well in.  Dean Cain also turns in a worthy performance.  I think most will be surprised at how touching and even moving this movie is if they give it a chance.   "},{"Title":"A surprisingly complex and satisfying film","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I too rented this movie because I am a Drew Barrymore fan, but wasn't sad that she had a relatively small part.  That's not a dis on Drew (she did just fine), but more a commentary on how good a script it was.  The acting was all around solid with Dean Cain leading the pack... and surprise, surprise, Andy Dick giving his comic character some interesting depth.Did this movie get a theatrical release?  If not, it's a shame... it's one of those small indie films that could really find an audience. "},{"Title":"Contains elements of M*A*S*H","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An entertaining movie from beginning to end. It delivers a clever story line with a blend of humor, drama and tragedy reminiscent of the TV series M*A*S*H. I was a bit surprised by the relatively low average score, but the statistics indicate that a healthy percentage of viewers found the story compelling as I did. "},{"Title":"Uneven homage to 'Dog Day Afternoon'","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There is a bank robber known as Hamlet working the area who quotes Shakespeare during his robberies. Four friends Buzz (Dean Cain), Teddy (Andy Dick), Billy (Sean Patrick Flanery), and Sol (Mitchell Whitfield) have come to pick up Jesse (Luke Wilson) from prison released after around 3 years. They are all dressed in tuxedos going to Jesse's wedding with Hope (Drew Barrymore). Billy is dropped off at the bank who turns out to be the masked bandit Hamlet. Then the rest of the guys go into the bank. They are surprised by Billy's bank robbery, and join in. Sheriff Phillips (Fred Ward) surrounds the group, and turns out to be Billy's dad.This is a poor copy of 'Dog Day Afternoon'. Billy is way too pathetic. The FBI is way too ridiculous. The other people in the group makes no sense. It's trying to be a quirky action comedy. Except that it's more stupid than funny. And it's a horrible idea to have Andy Dick who is hamming it up for the camera. I think the filmmakers are attempting at a Tarantino-like DDA movie but they don't have the skills to pull it off. It comes off as a weak homage to the great movie. "},{"Title":"uneven but hard to walk away from","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie tells us an interesting, unusual, and uneven tale of angst, love, disaffection, and friendship.  The groom, and four guys in the wedding party, are on their way to the wedding when one of them (who turns out to be the son of the town sheriff) decides to rob a bank, and all of them get involved.  It is hard to imagine a more bizarre start to a story.  The screenplay could have been a lot better; the characters could have been a lot better developed; the story could have been a lot more realistic.  But in spite of all that, each time I tried to turn it off, something happened that kept me going, all the way to the end!  There's a lot of movies that can't manage that trick.  I wouldn't spend a lot of money to see it, but on the other hand, if it turns up on cable, and you want a change of pace, it's definitely worth a try.  It might just hit you the right way. "},{"Title":"Best Men Not Half Bad but...Not Half Good Either.","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are some movies so bad,that when you watch them on video or TV,you wonder, Why did they bother with this? Why didn't they shelve it? That's what I wondered when I caught this unoriginal,cliché' filled movie on late night TV.The first hour of this movie (including commercials) is truly a mess and completely unbelievable. While I can see the possibility of a man getting out of jail and going to his waiting bride, I could not buy how he and his friends end up helping their buddy Hamlet (Billy)in the bank and keeping their fellow towns-people hostage. Even more ridiculous is that because the guys are nice,they end up basically helping them too.Dean Cain is really the only convincing male actor of the five (at least in the first 1/2). Although his coming out of the bank,with guns blazing is just plain stupid,along with the fact that he's wearing guns under his tuxedo in the first place.Andy Dick seems to only be able to play one character his whole career,a strange,nerdy kind of Matthew from News Radio boy-man. He really has no place here and his tell off the wife over the phone scene has been done way too many times in movies and TV shows,it's completely unoriginal.As is most of this blatant small town rip-off of Dog Day Afternoon (which they at least acknowledge their ripping off). We get a sheriff who's the father of wanted criminal Hamlet. We also get the cliché' of the crowd cheering for Hamlet like he's some kind of Robin Hood folk hero! I went to high school with that guy! Says one of them,then they're chanting Hamlet over & over.So,we get the you we're never there for me dad plot,which has also been done in movies TV shows. Which made it hard to be sympathetic,but not just in that case,I couldn't sympathize with any of these characters. Even after finding out about their personal downfalls.The Vietnam vet is so much a cartoon that what could have been a great character is wasted. As are the acting talents of Drew Barrymore. Her presence in all this is spread quite thin. Then there's the expected FBI converging on the town,with the leader who just wants to blast the bad guys away. He and the sheriff are of course at at odds with each other and the other big city FBI men make fun of the small town's people. They should be used to shot gun weddings here. (Referring to Barrymore and her boyfriend wanting to get married in the middle of a hostage situation.) I really only got into the movie when the more truthful and real elements came into play. When Andy is the first to get shot and then the FBI shooting up Cain and Hamlet's get away bus in a scene somewhat similar to the ending of Clint Eastwood's,The Gauntlet. Hamlet and father make amends just before that and Dad let's his son get away. (Oh please!) Then the final two biggest rip off's of all. Barrymore and soon to be husband are given the stolen money by Hamlet and they fly of in the Vietnam Vet's helicopter and escape scott free. Shades of D.B. Cooper! Dean Cain and Hamlet then have one bullet each in their guns after the bus crashes and their all shot up. Just like the final scene in Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid they come running out together and Cain takes down the leader of the FBI,who he swore he'd take out. All the supposed reasons these characters have for letting themselves into this mess are contrived and flimsy at best. I would say if this movie had been made a long time ago and had there not been Dog Day Afternoon,it might seem more plausible but even the intense last half,which did hold my interest,is not enough to like this movie.Four stars for the final,intense attempted getaway chase scene and Hamlet's very well spoken Shakespearian quotes,which do fit in here and the movie thankfully taking a needed turn into reality. Otheriwse,I'd never bother with Best Men again. (END) "}{"Title":"Suspend reality for good entertainment","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Good action flic with passable comedy.Shakespearian theme is a bit overdone, but, the bad guy gets his just desserts. Drew Barrymore is actually likeable. Dean Cain is not a gay green beret but turns in a good job under trying circumstances "},{"Title":"Why so under-rated and unpopular?","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" First of all, I would recommend seeing the movie before reading any of the comments posted on this page. If you are thinking of posting a comment, read the comments of other people to get a sturdy point of view and opinion.I would definitely love to meet one of the main characters in the movie Best Men. Dean Cain played Sergeant Buzz Thomas (might I add that he is so incredibly cute!). You probably know him from his role as Superman in Lois and Clark. Best Men is about four guys who get involved in a bank robbery after their friend Billy Phillips (Sean Patrick Flanery) decides to hold up a bank to grab cash for Jesse Reilly's (Luke Wilson) wedding present. Billy uses quotes from Shakespeare's Hamlet during his robberies, earning the nickname Hamlet. Drew Barrymore plays a small but important part as Hope, the bride-to-be. Teddy Pollack (Andy Dick) adds a funny and somewhat unique twist to the movie. Best Men has it's action scenes, but is mainly a comedy that gradually turns into a drama. The characters are flawless, great performance from all the actors.I have read some of the other comments on this movie, and have to agree that I was also disappointed when I found out that Cain's character was gay. I also realized, though, that if he was not gay, he most likely would have taken the role of a sex-driven man. The movie was straight forward, and did not need a distraction.Also, some comments are complaining about the stupidity of the characters. If there weren't parts of the movie where the characters did idiotic things, there wouldn't be much suspense as to where that action would lead them.There seems to be an argument between comments about the genre of the film. A film does not have to be one type, it is actually much better if it is composed of mixed feelings, which is definitely what Best Men imposes.This movie was most likely not intended to be a really action-filled movie, a really tragic one, or one that you will laugh about for the next week. It is a light combination of all three. Watching it a couple times will also help you understand the dialog between the beginning and the end. A lot of what is said shows up in another part of the movie.Overall, a must-see. Best Men definitely gives you a new perspective on shotgun weddings and comedy/action films. "},{"Title":"It's not ordinary","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's a great movie. I enjoyed all  1'30 of the movie, but  enjoyed does not match this movie. It's more complicated and more beautiful than you thought at the beginning of the movie. Real drama which clarifies who and what is the best man. All personages are actually live people with their own life and feelings. In my opinion, it gets more Shakespeare than Shakespeare in love >  "},{"Title":"The tears kept coming","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really like this movie. The actors fit the characters perfectly and the plot was unique. It would have been even more great to find out more about the characters but other than that i really enjoyed it. What was really fantastic is how all the friends were so different from each other but the fit so well. I can understand that this movie wasn't really deep, but life isn't always like that. The movie certainly took some surprising turns, well at least in the characters they were bringing into the plot. the overall feeling of the movie was really sentimental, dealing in the fact that these guys lives had been rough but they were still willing to go on, and the end really interesting if a little sad. But it just goes to show that some people don't go down without a fight.  "},{"Title":"A Quirky Flick About Love, Death, Shakespeare & Bank Heists","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A peculiarity when I wasn't expecting one, 'Best Men' should probably be described as a black comedy. It held my attention and I enjoyed it. Basically, 5 buddies accidentally wind up robbing a bank on their way to a wedding. There are several problems in this scenario one of them got out of prison and can't afford to get in trouble again, one is a bit of a folk-hero called 'Hamlet' by the press because he quotes Shakespeare while robbing banks and gives the money to orphanages- and worse, his dad is a sheriff, one is denying any involvement in the situation, one is really a bit over-excited about the 'manly' thing he's involved in, and one is a gay Green Beret but at least isn't actually causing any problems. To further complicate matters, the crowd loves them, one of their hostages is a paranoid Vietnam vet and the bride shows up. None of these guys actually wants to hurt anyone- hell, they even get pizza for their captives. They just want out of the situation in one piece. This goal will become more difficult to obtain with the arrival of a self-serious FBI agent who thinks he's got everything under control. I have a hard time categorizing this movie. Many have said it doesn't seem to know what it wants to be, and I think that's true. On the other hand, it doesn't really hurt. It's got lots of humor, and some serious parts between the friends and 'Hamlet' and his father. It's hard to call any movie a light comedy when half the people you like die by the end, but it can't really be called a drama. It's just a quirky flick, and one of the weirdest bank heist movies I've ever seen. I don't really know who to recommend it to, but I do recommend it. Also features standout performances by Dean Cain and Sean Patrick Flannery, and more Shakespearian references than any movie I've ever seen besides 'Shakespeare In Love'.    "},{"Title":"Weird hybrid but I liked it","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this was a cross between Dog Day Afternoon, Diner and In Country with a bit of any Steven Seagal movie thrown in.  I liked it because the characters were all interesting, even the FBI, who are usually not real characters.  Out of the large cast, I enjoyed Ray Barry and Dean Cain the most.  What you'll get out of this movie is anyone's guess, but its that unpredictability that I appreciate.  "},{"Title":"An amazing piece of work","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this movie because...well to be honest it was to see Drew Barrymore, but I got much more out of it than just that. The story was beautifully written and played out. This movie shows the definition of true friendship. It's nice to see a film where everyone is not out to protect themselves, but to keep the people they care about under safety's wing.The acting was all around nice. No really outstanding performances, but certainly no one who demeaned the film and the performances of others.  "},{"Title":"A Black Comedy With A Punch","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A black comedy is one of those movie genres that is often hard to pull off successfully because it must be able to be funny and dramatic and sad without diminishing any one of them. And unlike contemporary dramadies, a black comedy truly is a art in itself. In Best Men, the balance is accomplished through comedic inference and avoidance of anything really over the top and the inclusion of serious heart wrenching pain that is both funny and sad. Thelma & Louise (1991), Bonnie & Clyde (1967), Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969) retain the comic and dramatic themes, yet Best Men is more of an ensemble effort. What is fascinating here is that Dean Cain land the starring role (noted mostly from his television role starring in Lois & Clark The New Adventures of Superman which series ended with the simultaneous release of this movie and only prolific starring roles in B-rated movies and television spots) while acting besides more well known actors Luke Wilson (whose career begin close to the release of this movie) and Drew Barrymore (who had established herself by 1992 in Poison Ivy). Sean Patrick Flanery (who also co-starred in Simply Irresistible (1999), a co-star, also has a rather lengthy acting history similar to as Dean Cain. Brad Dourif as a war veteran also turns in a slightly off character in a memorable role (and comes in with an extensive film acting career both before and after this movie was released). Perhaps the closest contemporary film that could have some comparison and built upon the smooth black comedy genre might be Tropic Thunder (2008). "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of my personal favorites. This great movie symbolizes camaraderie, and defines friendship on a new level. Love, life, and a lasting impact. This movie has it all. Dean Cain plays a bada**, who just happens to be gay. While coming terms with that, he's confronted with his friends personal demons as well. Sean Patrick Flannery invokes his Shakespearean side, and takes his role to heart. Andy Dick's 'quirkiness' adds a comical side, while Drew Barrymore graces the film with her beauty. Luke Wilson, also plays an excellent role, especially seeing as how he was relatively unknown when this movie was made. His cool demeanor, and mellowness provide 'quiet professional' aspect to the motley crew that make up these band of friends. "},{"Title":"If you like quirky comedic tragic films this is it","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Basically it's there in the subject.  When I first rented this movie I thought Oh sounds like it'll be a cute movie.  Yes, I said cute.  So I took it home, put it in and let it play.  What I got was a completely different experience than I was expecting, but very much welcome in the end. It's a movie about friendship, love, and ultimately sacrifice.  While some of the cast may not be well known to the public, what I have seen most of them in as well as this movie, has been quite impressive.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone who has enjoyed such films as Thursday, Pulp Fiction, or even Michael Mann's Heat.  One of the best ensamble casts since the recent Ocean's Eleven, check it out.  I give it FOUR out of FIVE STARS. "}{"Title":"This film is mad.","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have to admit Best Men was one of those films I had passed dozens of times at the video store - every time meaning to check it out.  But I am glad that I finally did.  In a way this is just like other off-beat, crime capers. The plot won't keep you guessing but then, that's not the point.  Instead the pace of the film matches the laid-back town where it is set.  And the movie definitely plays for laughs over any attempt at pathos.  Which is good, the last thing we need is yet another movie trying to be more than it really is.  All the audience is asked to do is kick back and enjoy the ride. However the film is not without its surprises - namely the performances of Dean Cain and Sean Patrick Flanery.  Dean Cain is a revelation - forget Superman, this guy should definitely aim for parts like these.  He brings a sensitivity to his role that belies his previous tv role.  And Sean Patrick Flanery gets a mention for his adeptness with Shakespearean dialogue. There are not many actors on the big screen today who make it sound so easy - especially when you consider that not all of the dialogue spoken is original (and therefore with no prior standards or interpretations to guide the way). Kudos to the writers too, for doing such a great job. However, don't let the Shakespeare bit put off any action fans - there's more than enough to keep the blood pumping.  Shakespeare plus shootouts and a groom who is going to be reeaallly late - this movie is mad. "},{"Title":"This movie manages to bungle two genres at once","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie starts out with some real promise. It begins as a comedic naive-criminal type movie. A theme rendered masterfully in the film Bottle Rocket. With a cast that includes Andy Dick you start to expect even an element of superb slap stick and goofy-ness. If only this movie could have reached half of the understated brilliance of Bottle Rocket, it would have succeeded. Unfortunately, it fails spectacularly. Half way through the film they decide to ditch the comedic theme and dive head first into an action film. Complete with over the top chase scenes and graphic violence that leaves the viewer wondering if someone taped over the second half of the film with an episode of the A-team. And don't get me wrong I love blood and guts action a la John Woo, but in this film it is completely out of place. This film tries to combine the sincere comedy of Bottle Rocket with the over the top action of Hard Boiled and manages to fail at both in the process. It is a shame too because if they had stuck to one or the other they might have ended up with a decent film.  "},{"Title":"Not what I expected, but a good watch all the same","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Maybe I shouldn't have liked Best Men, but I did. I watched it late last night on either HBO or Showtime, I don't remember which, with reservations and low hopes. The rating of 6 here seemed decent enough, but the comment(s) that showed on the main info page seemed rather negative. Still, I decided to give the movie a chance.I'm really glad that I did. This movie had some laughs and some teary-eyed moments. I, personally, both laughed and cried hard, and I know for a fact that it wasn't just because of the late-night time affecting my rationality and/or emotions. I missed the first 10 minutes or so of the movie, which had me a little confused, but I don't think it mattered too awfully much--I'll be sure to rent or buy (this one should be cheap if I can find it) it and watch it again to find out. That being said, I'll move on to my opinions of the individual actors/characters.I'd never heard of Dean Cain before. I vaguely recognized him without knowing from where--turns out he was the host of Ripley's Believe It or Not, which I used to watch fairly frequently. That's the only place I'd ever seen him, so I had no idea of what his acting skills were going into this movie. I was pleased with Cain's performance as Buzz. He had a perfect body and attitude for the tough military guy, although he could've been a bit softer during certain scenes. Still, he did well enough, and certainly didn't detract from the movie.I went into the film liking Andy Dick. He made me laugh my head off in Hebrew Hammer, I watch his series The Assistant whenever I can, and I've enjoyed all the little guest parts he's had in a great deal of movies. With the exception of The Assistant, I'd only seen him in slapstick settings. Although he was certainly funny--even hilarious at times--it was a different type of funny, and I really liked it. I'd like to see him in more roles like this funny, but a little serious. He did a great job as Teddy; I only wish he would have had more time on-screen. Maybe if I'd caught those first minutes of the movie I'd have seen more of him.Sean Patrick Flanery was definitely the star of the show in my mind. The only other movie I'd seen him in was Powder, and I didn't recognize him at all here--I only found out it was the same actor when I checked his bio page here. In Best Men he did a truly superb job as Billy. He delivered his Shakespeare lines incredibly well, without sounding hesitant, fake, or anything like that. The lines just flowed out, and I think I fell in love a little. His scenes with his father were perfectly believable. All in all, Billy was just my favorite character.Mitchell Whitfeld did well as Sol. I'd never seen him before this movie, so I didn't know what to expect; I wasn't disappointed. His best line in the movie is the I'm Jewish one--so funny!I've seen lots of Luke Wilson's movies before, and I've always found him thoroughly enjoyable. This held true in Best Men as well. I felt really bad for his character, Jesse--I mean, come on, stuck in a bank robbery on your wedding day? That just sucks. A good character, though he (surprisingly) wasn't on screen that much compared to the other characters.Finally, there's Drew Barrymore as Hope. This woman is one of my favorite actresses of all time, so I was a little disappointed to see that she was barely ever on-screen. For the few minutes we see her, however, she did well.Although this movie seemed a little random--unequal parts humor, drama, and action--it was still a very good watch. I'll definitely rent this, and if I ever see it for sale I'll be sure to buy it immediately. I give it a 7 out of 10--a slightly more coherent plot would have given it an 8.  "},{"Title":"A GREAT film, but not for everyone...","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The best way I can sum it up is a cross between a David Mamet movie and Starship Troopers.  Here is why...  There are two kinds of people.  The people who understood STARTSHIP TROOPERS, and those who didn't.  These are people who looked at the superficial exterior and then stopped there, failing to see the true brilliance of the satire and the other fascinating qualities it had to offer.  These are the kind of people who look at the sand on the beach, and see only dry sand.  They then assume that all the sand is dry, even though it is wet just below the surface.Best men is like Mamet in that the dialogue is not the way real people talk, but is stylized, much like Shakespeare stylized his.  The way shakespeare wrote was far from the way people talked back then.  BEST MEN actually has close ties to shakespeare, as his work plays a major part in the plot. The film is in a way a tribute to shakespeare and his work.  The script is in my opinion one of the best and most layered scripts I have ever seen or heared. Unfortunately I don't know if most people will realize how good it really is.  The acting is acceptable for the most part.  The only really great performances are turned in by Dean Kane, and Brad Dourif (who is one of my very favorite character actors.If you are going to see this movie, I would recommend seeing it with a completely open mind, have no pre-notions of what it will be, because you won't get what you are expecting.  I didn't, I expected a Drew Barrymore movie, but she actually has a rather small role, but I good one. "},{"Title":"Spliced","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Some films allow you to see how they were conceived. This one you can see the splices `Deer Hunter,' `Dog Day,' `Speed,' `Butch Cassady.' Each is rolled out in turn to remind us of some fond image instead of delivering one to us directly.I'm beginning to feel that it is now impossible to make a passable film with either a bus chase or a pickup by a helicopter from a moving vehicle. This has both. Drew Barrymore from her Green period. Early Luke Wilson.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Action/Comedy/Drama/Tragedy? All of the above!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well scripted, tightly directed.  Small town guys against the world of inequities.  Throw in Romeo & Juliet and Shakespeare's having a feast with this one.  One surprise after another..hoping that the bad/good guys make it in the end. I don't want to give away the ending, but you should see this one. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Picked this one up just 'cause I loved the actors, expecting it to be nothing more than a cheesy comedy. And, a lot of it was. The plot-line left a lot to be desired, with improbable situations and some pretty obvious 'twists'. But the characters rose well above the script. Dean Cain, Sean Patrick Flanery, Andy Dick, Mitchell Whitfield and Brad Dourif really shone, taking characters which could have so easily been one-dimensional and fleshing them out to people that we can truly understand. Drew Barrymore and Luke Wilson are underused, but great in what screen time they get. Then again, I'm pretty sure that neither of them could act badly if they tried. Certainly not a movie likely to win awards, but a great way to spend an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time 7 years after it was made. I thought this was a very cute movie. I believe they had a nice mixture of actors. Drew Barrymore was great. She is so much fun to watch. She has a great character that chooses to love rather than walk away. Dean Cain played a very handsome military soldier, that was totally willing to stand up for his friends. Even though it could be a predictable story line, it was very enjoyable to watch. It had true friends sticking up for each other. I think they did a great job setting the story and completing the story. I would watch this movie again. And one that I would recommend to others to view.  "},{"Title":"The drama and goodness of a Drew Barrymore comedy.","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Best Men - Drew Barrymore, Luke Wilson, Dean Caine, Andy Dick.The plot - Three friends rob and take hostage of a bank on Luke Wilson's and Drew Barrymore's wedding day. They are surrounded by F.B.I. and are on the life and death stage line.What I thought - Hey, it was good although the plot of robbing a bank was like OKAY? It was a little too on the edge for me.What was good -  The thing of Drew Brarymore in it but here are my calculations. 1. Good actors were in it. 2. Drew Barrymore was in it. 3. It was action. 4. The plot was funny. 5. Happy ending 6. They named their kid Sol. aww they named it after there friend.Caculations - 8/10They rules see it today. "},{"Title":"Rushed","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Imagine, you have 90 minutes to fill by means of a movie. This movie is   supposed to be a thriller, black-humoured, exciting and deep in   character. You have five main characters and a couple of supporting   characters and now, please press all of them into these 90 minutes and   include a background story about each of them.    The result is a movie like Best Men with a challenging idea standing at   the beginning and apart from that, over-loaded with characterizations   created along one of those books on 'How to Write a Damn Good   Screenplay'. The dialogues lack ideas because there is no time to   develop them, so they have to be reduced to standard phrases. If   stretched, however, they would be boring.    Another result is that the characters all have exciting and   heart-rending pasts but regarding their present situations they remain   flat. Maybe they had better not tried to realize that attractive idea. "}{"Title":"Don't be fooled by the cast","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What a train wreck.Watching the opening credits the audience is granted some manner of false hope; Wilson, Cain, Flanery, Dick, Ward, and Barrymore...not to mention direction from the talented Tamra Davis. Add in music by Mark Mothersbaugh and you might think you were in for a really entertaining hour and a half. You'd be wrong.Instead this is 90 minutes of your life you'll be wishing you had back. This movie fails miserably in spite of its passable cast. The script is miserable tripe, with each member of this derelict wedding party recounting their own unique story, one more cliché than the next.The supporting cast features a bevy of film stereotypes; the distant father, the crazy veteran, the villainous FBI agent...even a black security guard named after a ball player! How embarrassing.Beyond the bad script, sub par performances, weak story, and average direction, Best Men never really decides where it wants to go. Comedy, dark comedy, action-adventure, drama; as it flounders it never achieves any of these goals.Don't be fooled by the stars, this is grade A loser not worthy of its cast or its director. "},{"Title":"Best men, worst film.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Best Men can't seem to make up its mind if it wants to be a comedy or a drama and scrambles both while compromising each only to cap the confusion with some mediocre action. A technically okay production with a decent cast of 2nd tier talent, this film is a directorial disaster with a sloppy make-it-up-as-we-go-along storyline. Character development is not sufficient to allow the audience to summon the emotions the film seems to demand and comedic purpose is lost in quotes from Hamlet and a lot of sappy personal relationship issues. "},{"Title":"A bad, stupid movie","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Some films have it all. This doesn't. It opens quite ok, a bunch of friends gathered for a wedding. But very soon the movie hits the unthinkable level. I like strange movies, but they have to be somewhat logical, to the characters at least, but there are too many unthinkable, unbelievable actions taken in this movie** SPOILERS BELOW ** READ IT, DON'T SEE THE FILM1) The robber Hamlet has to rob the bank on his friends wedding day. Stupid, unnecessary, risky2) When Buzz comes storming in, he removes his hood, and the two guys uses their real names. Stupid.3) The other guys drop by, no other person attempts to enter the bank, only these guys, although the bank is full of people. Unlikely.4) The helicopter pilot all of a sudden gets his hands on a Lynx? My god, he is a lunatic who got fired from the army, no chance in hell is he gonna get his hands on an army helicopter!This movie sucks, and I regret staying up to see it. "},{"Title":"Started as a comedy, ended as an adventure","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Hamlet' has robbed several banks.  He wears a ski mask and quotes Shakespeare, and he gives part of his money to worthy causes, making him a 'Robin Hood' as well.  His next target  Independence, population 9,998.  And this time he has 'merry men'.Jesse is getting out of prison on the day he is supposed to marry Hope.  He and four friends who meet him are all wearing tuxedos.  Billy, the son of Independence's sheriff, tells them to go on to the church because he has to stop by the bank and get some money.   The robber takes hostages, and eventually the FBI shows up, led by Agent Hoover ('no relation'), who wants things done his way, doesn't care who he hurts, and has no consideration for Sheriff Phillips, who resents the FBI's intrusion into his town.The situation is not as dangerous as it sounds, since the robbers are not only bumbling idiots but also quite friendly, considering they are holding guns on people.  But that doesn't matter  eventually what started as a silly farce turns quite serious and violent.  Funny moments still happen, but the second half of the movie has a different tone.  At the end, an exciting chase involving a bus, a helicopter and beautiful mountain scenery make things a little more exciting.One performance stands out from the rest  Brad Dourif as a 'disgruntled Vietnam veteran' who has a screw loose and knows how to help the robbers.  Dean Cain also does a pretty good job--tough, serious but occasionally showing traces of the Clark Kent personality.  The former green beret has some serious moments with the other vet, discussing how the army mistreated them both, one of two ways the movie is given substance.  Also, Billy, who has had a falling out with his father, gets a chance to make things right, though I won't say whether he succeeds.  The Hamlet, whose identity I won't reveal, is more Jim Varney than Laurence Olivier, though both were Shakespearean trained. Mitchell Whitfield shows a take-charge attitude as a Jewish lawyer who has his own solution to the robbers' problem.It was good to start with, it went downhill, but it recovered.POSSIBLE SPOILERS FOLLOWHope arrived at the bank very angry, believing Jesse was involved (I won't say whether he was).  But negotiations resulted in the couple getting a priest to come perform the ceremony. This was funny because the priest announced the bank was 'the house of God' and that because God was present, guns should be put down.The chase scene included an escape by some of the persons inside through the roof of the bus into the helicopter.  Great stunt work.  The bus later wrecked and rolled over and over.DEFINITE SPOILERThe priest had a gun in his Bible and the ceremony was never performed. This was one place where the movie got particularly violent, though it was funny in a couple of ways  one character's reaction to being shot, and the Jewish lawyer's pulling a gun on the 'priest'--he had less reason to respect the man, after all.       "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A good set of dialogue and a nice bunch of actors do nothing with this terrible story.  Best Men never develops any of its characters deeply enough for the audience to care about them in any way.  We hear briefly about each man's troubled life and how he in one way or another has been treated unfairly or has screwed up his own life.  Yet, all of it is so poorly constructed and recklessly thrown together that you never get a sense of why these characters are redeemable.  Now I don't necessarily need redeeming characters in movies, but this is what the film was obviously trying to portray.  Further still, the film ends with a cute and a tidy ending.  A completely unsatisfying film. "},{"Title":"Very Bad Ripoffs","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a pathetic embarrassment this is to Fred Ward, Andy Dick, Dean Cain, and Sean Patrick Flahery. The situations were completely improbably, and the melodrama ridiculous, and none of the characters were even remotely believable. Too grim to be a comedy, too idiotic to be black humor, this movie has nothing going for it. "},{"Title":"Good, but needed work","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For some reason I'm finding that I enjoy a great deal of Tamra Davis' films. I was lucky enough to catch this one on HBO _very_ late at night and watched the whole thing.  Dean Cain fans need to check this one out.  The plot is skewed, but the laughs come here and there and it is interesting enough to keep the viewer's interest. "},{"Title":"Hamlet or Robin Hood?","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Best Men probably looked better as a film project when all the people behind it were discussing how to bring it to the screen at a meeting at the Polo Lounge, perhaps. Having admired Tamra Davis films before, most notably, Guncrazy, we decided to take a look. A sad mistake. This is a movie that has taken its ideas from other, better made films. The result is a mess.The film doesn't work as a black comedy. We don't believe for a moment there are people like this anywhere, but obviously, it seems to be the case. The talents of some of the actors in Best Men are totally wasted by a screen play that is as phony as a three dollar bill. The idea of watching the charismatic Drew Barrymore goes out the window because she is only seen in a couple of scenes.The DVD should be a good present to give for Christmas to all those people on your s*#t list. It certainly would make a statement! "},{"Title":"Could be this generation's Citizen Cane vs. Hammersmith is Out","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I woke up this morning with a severe ankle spasm, crawled around on my hands and knees to let the cats out. I thought I'd watch something for ten minutes while I iced my ankle. Ten minutes and I was hooked. It was interesting. Ten minutes later, I was enchanted. A few minutes more and it was lacerating every stereotype in society. It gets better, pure surface, go deep, fluff out - back to deep. The comedic moments are nuanced. There is a great Cliff's notes scene. The serious moments are often cliches. the cliches then often return to the comedic moments. The serious moments could be viewed as bathos. Contextually, they worked for me. I found I could only recommend this to one person because you need a certain level of sophistication to go with it.lamentably by the rules, almost none of the details of this movie can be revealed. A great movie. If you have always wanted to see the Murder of Gonzaga watch this, it will salve your soul. "},{"Title":"OK comedy-drama","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" BEST MEN Aspect ratio 2.391Sound format Dolby DigitalTamra Davis' OK comedy-drama toplines Sean Patrick Flanery (POWDER) as a Shakespeare-spouting bank robber whose latest heist goes spectacularly awry when a group of his closest friends (Dean Cain, Luke Wilson, Andy Dick and Mitchell Whitfield) stumble into the very same bank whilst on their way to Wilson's wedding, obliging them to join forces with Flanery and take staff and customers hostage as the building is besieged by trigger-happy cops. Raymond J. Barry is the hard-nosed FBI agent who takes charge of the situation from sheriff Fred Ward (playing Flanery's estranged father!), employing heavy-handed methods which ultimately threaten the lives of everyone in the immediate area.Narrative parallels with DOG DAY AFTERNOON are acknowledged in the dialogue (there's also a hint of THELMA & LOUISE, and a significant dollop of BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID), but Davis and her scriptwriters (Art Edler Brown and Tracy Fraim) forego heavy drama for a light-hearted examination of friendship under duress, at least until the climactic showdown, when events take a slightly darker turn. Nicely played by an experienced cast, the movie takes time to establish a roster of likable characters, particularly Cain as an ex-Green Beret whose dreams of a military career were shattered when the Army discharged him for being gay, and Brad Dourif as one of the hostages, a fiercely loyal Vietnam vet whose own Army service ended when he dared to question his superiors' ethics. Drew Barrymore gets lost in the mix as Wilson's bride-to-be, left standing at the altar following his involvement in the heist, but Flanery excels as the benevolent bank robber who steals from the rich and distributes his gains amongst local orphanages; his recitals from Hamlet are a highlight of the picture. "}{"Title":"Like Shakespeare? Hardly.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that I enjoyed this movie. It was a light way (despite a few dark moments) to spend a couple of hours, but I wouldn't nominate it for any Oscars, nor would I compare it to the works of Shakespeare as a previous reviewer has.If you wanted to, you could speak as highly of any film. All this would accomplish is to dilute the praise deserving of the real greats (if you're thinking Armageddon, stop reading NOW!)Let's call Best Men what it really is, a fun little flic. There's some gunplay, a car chase, a guy who gets the girl, a moment of revelation for a would-be lost friend, and a good helping of comic relief, with an ending reminiscent of Richard Gere in Breathless. I enjoyed it, but just because a character is endearingly nicknamed Hamlet, and there's a few (well acted) verses recited, Best Men is no Shakespearean work.Let's call a spade a spade but reserve the real praise for the likes of Citizen Kane, Lawrence of Arabia, or even Titanic. "},{"Title":"People liked this?","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  it starting off okay, but it seemed like the film had an identity crisis for the most part. i suspect that they ran out of money when they were filming and just went with what they had. a big disappointment from tamara davis (although not as big as finding out that she directed a b.spears film - what did mike d think about that?)2/10 "},{"Title":"Its an okay movie","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Summary written by John Sacksteder jsackste@bellsouth.net The film opens with 4 tuxedo clad men showing up at a penitentiary to meet a friend (Luke Wilson) who has just been released after three years in prison and is going straight from the jail to marry his girl friend (Drew Barrymore). En route to the wedding, one of the men (Sean Patrick Flanery) asks to stop by a bank to pick up some cash. As it turns out, he is a wanted bank robber who uses Shakespeare passages during his robberies and thus has become known as Hamlet. Soon all five men are caught up in the bank and involved in the robbery as they end up in a hostage situation. The hostage negotiator (Fred Ward) shows up who turns out to be Hamlet's father. As the men are all known to those being robbed, this quirky comedy takes a left turn as their hostages all work to support the men.And thats that, there is really no point in seeing this. But if you cant sleep and its on t.v, its good enough to watch. "},{"Title":"The worst kind of dimwitted, sitcom crap disguised as a movie.","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is cornball tripe at it's worse. There are enough contrived situations, types and sentiments bundled into this movie to cover a whole season of sitcoms. Tamra's movie is a mess. Drew Barrymore is a mess, as usual, also. The lead male cast should be embarrassed for participating, especially Dean Cain, who is probably the most used to this kind of crappy writing, since he's basically a TV star. This is one of those bad movies that perhaps you'll want to finish watching simply to see if it can get any worse. It does. The most pleasure attained here is watching most of the leads suffer as the laughable finale hits you right in the groin. I'm chuckling just thinking about it! Oh yeah, I sat through the end credits; and Mr. Cain dedicated his performance to his Air Force dad or something like that. Oh bah-ruh-ther!  "}]