[{"Title":"Funnier than the first one","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Brady Bunch Movie that was released a couple years prior to A Very Brady Sequel was a decent success. The movie was actually pretty funny, I was obsessed with it when I was a kid. As I grew up, there was a flaw that I found with the film, the point of that film was to show how the Brady's were so different from the world and the real life family, no matter what decade. The Brady Bunch Movie was missing one main thing, the reactions from others around them. So A Very Brady Sequel, that's not only what they did, but they did it extremely well and this movie is one of the funniest comedies that you will ever see.One evening, a man claiming to be Carol's long-lost first husband, Roy Martin, shows up at the suburban Brady residence. He is actually a con man named Trevor Thomas and is there to steal their familiar horse statue that is actually a $20 million ancient artifact. They, portrayed as naïve, believe his story about suffering from amnesia and having plastic surgery after being injured. Eventually, Trevor's ruse is uncovered by Bobby and Cindy; in retaliation, he kidnaps Carol and takes her and the artifact to a buyer in Hawaii. The remaining Brady family travels to Hawaii to save her and foil his plans.One of the scenes that nearly kills me with laughter each time is when Roy is taking Carol and tells the kids to stay back, Cindy says You can't take my mommy!, Marcia says Cindy's right, take Jan!. You rarely get comedic timing on a joke like that! Roy's reactions to hanging with the Brady family was too funny. I loved when Alice mistakes his mushrooms for actual mushrooms and as he's eating them in the spaghetti she made he realizes that he's tripping with the Brady's. Leading into a very funny cartoon of an acid trip with the Brady's. I thought the touch with Marcia and Greg having a romance was funny since every Brady fan knows that in real life Maureen McCormick and Barry Williams had a little fling, weird seeing brother and sister have that kind of chemistry on camera.A Very Brady Sequel is guaranteed to make you laugh. It's just a fun comedy with a lot of fun pokes at the series. The cast was great and really clicked well. Adding Tim Matheson as Roy was a great idea, he's timing on the jokes was perfect. His character was exactly what these movies needed. I also thought it was a great idea taking on the famous Hawaii episode, how could you not laugh at the way Greg gets wiped out again while surfing? I wish they did make another sequel, but maybe it's better to leave the movies off with a bang, keep us laughing, keep us wanting more because the Brady's can finally rest knowing that they left that audience with a smile on their faces.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Very Underrated Movie","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This satiric sequel is a rare exception--it's better than the original. Highlights include Jan's made-up boyfriend, George Glass, Marcia and Greg's awkward sexual attraction, a cameo by Zsa Zsa Gabor and Rosie O'Donnel, not one but TWO musical dance numbers, Marcia's obvious wig in her scene at the pool, Jan losing her contact lens while driving, Mr. and Mrs. Brady's hilariously obvious sexual innuendo, Alice's spaghetti with special mushrooms, the family trip to Hawaii, and the (brief) return of Tiger, the dog. There's a lot more funny stuff too!While the original was all about the Brady's living in the 90s, the sequel is more concerned with the wacky misadventures the characters get themselves into. The comedy is intensified when other non-Brady's (people of the 90s) react to the Brady family. Fortunately, the Brady's are still oblivious to the fact that they aren't living in the 1970's anymore, so we can keep on laughing at the ridiculousness of the situations they are placed in.Honestly, it is such a funny, underrated comedy...RENT IT! "},{"Title":"Groovy!","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This quick cash-in sequel to the 1995 Brady Bunch Movie is surprisingly really quite good - The wonderfully tongue-in-cheek Shelley Long and Gary Cole make this worth watching just for their performances alone and the story is quite good if a little far-fetched. Tim Matheson stars as Shelley Long's EX-Husband or is he? If your feeling low - this movie will certainly bring a smile to the face if nothing else!MY Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Uproarious!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest films I've ever seen.  Way better than the first which is very unlikely.  This movie just makes you laugh from the first frame to the very last.  Not much more to say, a perfect comedy. "},{"Title":"Groovy!","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just a year after the original comes out, they make a follow-up, which is just as good as the original. Shelley Long, Gary Cole and all the kids come back for this one. Carol's supposedly dead husband comes back, leaving the Brady household confused, so they do they only thing that will help - fly over to Hawaii (of course!)!Yet more laughs and more funny lines (ie. coming off the plane Mike Where's Marcia? Cindy She's been lay-ed by those Hawaiian boys!) Ahem, yeah, but you might wanna check this one out for yourself!The Brady kids aren't short of singing numbers either, not on a stage though, this time on the 'groovy' plane! "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you were a fan of the first Brady Bunch Movie, you'll probably find this sequel enjoyable as well.  The whole cast has now slipped effortlessly into their roles (especially Gary Cole's absolutely spot-on mannerisms of Robert Reed/Mike Brady)  The story and jokes this time tend to start petering out near the end, but on the whole there are enough laughs, satiric jabs and nostalgic winks to inspire good will towards the whole film. It's fluff, to be sure....but entertaining fluff. "},{"Title":"Well performed.","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A Very Brady Sequel is a very good movie. All the actors did well here, especially Shelly Long, Gary Cole, Jennifer Elise Cox and Tim Mathieson. The funny situations, quotes, tone and style of this movie help hide the fact that not all that much really happens and the premise of this film is absurd.One of the biggest questions that fans often had about the show was the taboo subject of whether any of the Brady kids hooked up. A Very Brady Sequel tackles this issue head-on with Greg and Marcia trying to decide whether they should give in to the urges they start to feel for each other. This whole subplot was very interesting, if not also a little uncomfortable at times. Christopher Daniel Barnes and Christine Taylor are great as Greg and Marcia.The one role that I felt was perfectly done and helped the movie out the most is Jennifer Elise Cox as Jan Brady. She does an even better job with the role then the original Jan, Eve Plumb. Almost all the scenes with Jan are funny and Jennifer just shines through.Obviously, fans of The Brady Bunch are going to get the most enjoyment out of this. For a newcomer, you might want to check out a few episodes of the TV show first. "},{"Title":"A Huge Surprise","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow. I didn't think I would like this movie at all, since the first was very lackluster. I was wrong. This is MUCH funnier than the first film, and is a fresh change. A man named Trevor (Played by Tim Matheson) claims to be Carol's (Shelly Long) long lost husband. But, Trevor's partner was Carol's husband, who had died, and Trevor is trying to get a treasure he left her. Mike (Gary Cole) and the kids must help stop this from happening.There are some great storyline extras here (George Glass most definitely.) but some things seemed tasteless, like with the Greg and Marcia incest relationship (Though technically...). I thought most of those parts were unfunny. Look for alot of cameos in here, like in the first one.A very comedic movie. Recommended.RATING *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A VERY BRADY SEQUEL(1996) Shelley Long, Gary Cole, Christine Taylor, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Jennifer Else Cox.In this sequel to the 1995 hit, the brady bunch movie, a man named Roy Martin comes to the brady's house one night and says that he is Carols first husband. But really, he wants an Asian Horse statue that the Bradys have that is worth 20 million dollars.I would have to say that this was a little bit better than the first. This was funnier, and more entertaining. But I did enjoy the original. Anyway, Even if you haven't seen the show, you will still laugh. For the first movie, if you haven't seen the show, then you wouldn't have laughed as much. There was more bad material for little kids in this one, but neither were bad PG-13's. In this one, Jan was extra funny. In the original, she wasn't that funny. But in this one, she was hilarious. This one also doesn't make fun of the show as much as the other one. The other one had more funny things in the beginning. In this one, it was funnier after halfway. Recomended to anyone who like the show or the first film.Grade for A VERY BRADY SEQUEL ***(outta 4) PG-13; some sex-related humor.     "},{"Title":"Must see for Brady fans","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another of the rare breed of sequels-better-than-the-original movies, A Very Brady Sequel continues with the idea of the 70's Brady's being stuck in the present (in this case, the mid-90's) from the first film. While the original movie was very funny (grunge music nonwithstanding), the total lack of a plot was a pretty obvious hole.This time around we're actually treated to a decent storyline (as relative as can be to the entire Brady aura, that is) involving Mrs. Brady's first, long-lost husband, Roy. This adds a whole additional avenue for laughs as we now have an straight outsider thrust directly into the everyday realm of the Bradys. As he tries to enact his nefarious scheme, he's dragged kicking and screaming through their loopy antics, breakout songs and Mr. Brady's lectures.The same Brady cast returns and they're as spot-on as ever. A bulk of the laughs continue to go to insecure Jan, as she tries to convince everyone she's a viable person. A new incest angle is introduced between Greg and Marcia (Does this mean we're not really brother and sister?) that plays very well throughout. Tim Matheson is an excellent addition as Roy Brady, and he gets some scene stealing parts as well, particularly when he ends up tripping with the Bradys.While Sam seems to have disappeared in this one, we do see a couple of other Brady icons who seemed to have been missed in the first movie, though blink and you'll miss them. Surprisingly no real-life cameos in this one.As with the first movie, the more familiar you are with the TV series the more you will enjoy this movie. If you've never watched the Bradys then you'll probably want to skip these movies as most of the laughs are derived from inside references to the episodes, but if you have, then this is highly recommended and one of my faves. "}{"Title":"What's not to love about this film?!","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I hated the original Brady Bunch--the show was totally saccharine and about as edgy as a basketball! When the Brady movie came out in 1995, I was thrilled--as the saccharine Brady family was gone and the movie had a wonderful way of making fun of itself. Because of this good-natured lampoon, I was excited to see the sequel--and it did not disappoint--being MUCH better, even, than the previous film.Here, the plot is much sillier and the film is much more daring--going some sick places that the last film never dared. Jan is back--and even crazier than before and simply a hoot. And, there is a totally sick plot involving Marsha and Greg that had me falling on the floor laughing.One of the only reservations about the film is that it, unlike the TV show, there is some family-unfriendly humor. It was very, very funny and welcome...but not for the younguns. The other is that to enjoy and appreciate the film, you really need to have seen the original show. If you never saw the show, you will miss a lot of the references and won't enjoy it nearly as much. So, as a result, here is how I rate the film 9 if you've seen the original show and hated it and 7 if you've never seen it and 2 if you LOVE the original show and can't imagine anyone lampooning this 'pure genius' (yeah, right).The "},{"Title":"A cheerful comedy that is actually funny.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A sequel that's even better than the first part is a rare occurrence, even more fun than the first film. Once again, it's Jennifer Elise Cox who steals the show with a number of hilarious moments. This overlooked actress has (or had?) the potential to be another Goldie Hawn, but, alas, the major hindrance in her career going forward is that she isn't a Spelling, a Coppola, an Arquette, a Fonda, or a Barrymore. Having lack of powerful family connections is a truly unforgivable crime, and probably a major reason why she didn't make a breakthrough. If Drew Barrymore, for example, had 5% of her talent, she'd be the no.1 female star in the past 2 decades. I don't think much of child and teen actors, but Cox is possibly the funniest teenager I have ever seen in a movie, and one of the funniest actresses, as well. Her semi-retarded, ultra-naive facial expressions, so perfectly suited to this role, and her delivery of lines are absolutely perfect. Matheson is also very good, as is the guy playing the oldest son. "},{"Title":"And still more 'Brady-ier'","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are some movies, that just do not deserve sequels, but this was NOT one of them. Again even in this, we see the family of the 70's stuck in the 90's &#150; completely outdated and completely clueless.This was a very good sequel, which was as good as the first part. There were no repeating elements, and no cast changes &#150; it formed it's own new concept, and never did it deviate from the plot. Though there was a musical number, that just seemed completely irrelevant&#133;again, that was what the Brady bunch was all about, and it should be seen as a form o sarcastic humor.Another reason for this movie being great, is that no one needs to see the first part to enjoy this- hence this on its own makes an excellent recommendation for any fan of the TV show.  "},{"Title":"Bravo!  Johnny Bravo!","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although both Brady movies are entertaining, the sequel is easily the better of the two.  The plot works in a lot of things from the old tv show that are fun to spot.  It's fun to poke fun at the Bradys, yet there's a sort of sweetness to the family unity thing too.  The talented Gary Cole is uncanny as Mike Brady.  This is a fun, lightweight film. "},{"Title":"As good as the first movie!!!","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This sequel of the Brady Bunch continues their lives in the 90's. They meet a man who claims to be carol's long lost husband. In reality he is a con man running a scam on the brady's. Eventually the family must go to Hawaii to solve their family problems. There is a couple of subplots involving the older siblings falling in love with each other(yuck!!), jan trying to find her boyfrined etc..Almost of the brady children have some problems to solve!!In Hawaii, John Hillerman (Magnum P.I) has small part in this sequel as good the first!!Also look for Rosie O' Donnell and Zsa Zsa Garbor as themselfes as a charity auction!!One of the cast of a Law and Order aslo plays a cop in this cool summer comedy sequel!!! "},{"Title":"VERY VERY FREAKY","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a mere shadow of the original TV series, however, it had its own unique and somewhat scary side.Greg and Marcia fall for each other . . .come on, we are talking about brother and sister here, they even kiss. This is incest!!!! But kids, you still get to see it as it's only PG.Despite all the sexual jokes. Mr and Mrs Brady deliver their lines perfectly, taking off the originals extremely well. The kids are great too, with a cameo performance from Kitty Careol, blaming herself for not being Barbie.On the whole a pretty good movie. *** "},{"Title":"Henriette is superb!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Henriette Mantel is just great in her role as Alice, the maid.  She is the most comical character with perfect timing and great innuendo.  Miss Mantel is certainly and under-rated actress.  The movie as a whole is extremely comical. "},{"Title":"I'm tripping with THE BRADYS....","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you liked the first one, you'll like this one as well. As with the first one, it goes with the theme of putting a slick, modern-day antagonist against the clueless Bradys, and having the Bradys consistently kick him in the balls.They go off on a few more of the themes of the original (the Jan vs. Marcia rivalry, Gary Cole's spot-on parody of Mike Brady's pompous pontificating), but it also mines some great new material. One of the best gags is the uncomfortable incestuous relationship that results from Greg and Marcia sharing their room in the attic. There's also great parodies of the Brady Bunch animated series, bad musical numbers, and the Hawaiian Vacation episode.There are some dud gags as well, but the filmmakers once again took great-- possibly obsessive-- care to replicate the costumes, dialogue, sets, editing, and cinematography of the original Brady Bunch series. Juxtaposing this with the modern themes, and the fantastic parodying of the original series makes for another fun Brady movie. "},{"Title":"Groovy and Out of Sight!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay, I'm glad that they made a sequel to the original film. In this film, Carol's first husband, Roy Martin, supposedly returns to reunite with his beautiful wife and three blonde daughters. Unfortunately, he's not who or what he appears to be. He seems trapped in Brady's world where cable television is far too out there for them and where dysfunctional seems to be the norm. Greg and Marcia get new digs in the attic with creepy sexual tension between them while Jan fakes a new boyfriend. I love the coffee house scene where Greg and Marcia are double dating and where Jan and her fake boyfriend show up. Well, the fake first husband is only after Carol to get a horse that could pay him 20 million dollars to Hawaii to the anxious buyer. Yes, the plane ride to Hawaii is one to remember. There's singing and dancing and those Bradys are at it again. It's just a fun film to watch over and over. Nothing serious! "},{"Title":"I loved it!!","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" it was very funny and light. what i found really unique and i really loved was that it had so many undertones containing really messed up stuff like sex, violence, drugs, the corrupt society of our time, homosexuality, incest and more. i LOVED that Marcia and Greg were attracted to each other - it was very cool! (i'm only sad we didn't get more information about what really ended between them *hopes they got married as well* XD XD XD) also the conflicts Carol had regarding the return of her real husband. i loved the combination of CRAZY humor with a touch of serious issues. the jokes were very funny and i loved the gags they entered which involved the original show and other shows from that time (Gilligan's Island, I Dream of Jeannie and more(?)). most importantly the actors were beautiful to look at (*loves Greg*). XDloved it.------- edit (censored version, spoilers) i now found out that there are two versions of the movie one which is censored so beware in the real ending marcia and greg kiss!! in what i saw before writing this review they didn't but i saw the un censored version some time ago so..... "}{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so  funny! It's a great spoof of of the Brady shows that were on TV in the '70s and '80s. The first movie is probably better than this, but the second is just as good, maybe a little funnier. The innuendo is great! And the ending is so clever, an award should be given to whoever thought of it! "},{"Title":"A very worthy sequel","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A VERY BRADY SEQUEL (1996) *** Shelley Long, Gary Cole, Tim Matheson, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Christine Taylor, Jennifer Alise Cox, Paul Sutera, Jesse Lee, Olivia Hack, Henriette Mantel, RuPaul (cameos Zsa Zsa Gabor, Rosie O' Donnell, John Houseman, David Spade, Barbara Eden). Funnier and more campy than the first Brady Bunch family has the clan facing Carol's long-lost husband (Matheson) back and causing identity crises as he tries to steal a valuable statue unbeknownst to them. Finally a chance to see what urges Greg and Marcia were really feeling! "},{"Title":"Groovy fun 2","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A Very Brady Sequel continues the adventures of that famous 70's clan.  This time, Carol's first husband Roy, who was believed to be dead, suddenly returns one night.  But he's over there for 1 thing--the horse statue.  He goes through all sorts of mischief just to achieve his goal.  Once again, this is absolute NBG-Nothing but Groovy.  The cast from the first one returns.  Tim Matheson gives a menacing performance as Roy Martin.  Whereas I had a crush on Jennifer Elise Cox--Jan Brady, in the first one, I am completely in love with her in here.  Everything about her--clothes, hair, etc--just turns me on.  I would love to be her boyfriend all the time!!!!!  MARRY ME YOU SEXY GEEK!!!!!!  Anyway, this is yet a very great sequel.  Once again, the Bradys rock on.  ****stars.  (Paramount) "},{"Title":"My Review","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to agree with other reviews,It is weird that Greg has the hotts for Marcia.But I thought the plot was good.I am a big fan of the Brady's But this is very different.It was very unbradyish Very sexual.Although it was good,There was some uncalled for parts.But,Other than that is was good. That is what I think. "},{"Title":"If you thought the show was weird and cheesy, you'll love the movie","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There may be some who might think that this movie is nasty in how it approaches Greg and Marcia's relationship.  Yes, they are step-brother and step-sister, although that's as far as they're related.  They are not blood related, so technically there can't really be anything sick about it. The whole idea about them having almost intimate moments in the movie is because it was an obvious way for the producer(s) to poke fun at the show. On the show, Greg and Marcia got along a little too well for step-children.  If you noticed this in the show, as well as all the other quirks with the Brady clan (not excluding Alice), then you should watch this movie.  I found it hilarious mainly because I thought the show was incredibly cheesy.  This movie also closes some of the chapters that were left open with the show.  For instance...whatever happened to that dog the Brady's had?  And there's a prequel to this movie too.  It's also a good movie.  You just got to have a good sense of humor to enjoy the jokes and low-brow fun. "},{"Title":"A very funny sequel","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Thanks largely to a considerably better plot, this sequel manages to outshine the 1995 movie.  The same terrific cast is back, but this time, they don't just imitate the actors from the original series.  Here, the jokes are often a little more suggestive, and it works well as a contrast to the innocence that dominated the television show.  Like the first, this is nothing but fluff, but it's some very entertaining fluff, and this is a must-see for Brady fans everywhere. "},{"Title":"an improvement over the first one","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the first one was almost never funny. but this one has a lot of funnier gags. i watched the re-runs of the tv series a few times,and i liked them,but never kept watching them. the second one is pretty much a lot funnier than the first one. it had the laughs,just needed to be a little more entertaining. i give a very brady sequel **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those rare sequels that's better than the first. The reason it works is because more time is spent with the Brady family, and the humor is more savage to the family (though wisely, the Bradys still remain quite likable.) The cast is great.By the way, Greg and Marcia are NOT related by blood, so you can't say their going-ons are incestuous. People protesting should read Barry Williams' memoir Growing Up Brady, where he talks about the Greg/Marcia pairing possibilities - he makes it clear that he certainly wouldn't have minded that happening! "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was the best!!! it had a great soundtrack just like the regular Brady Bunch did back in the day--also it's very very funny---__the only thing that was wrong is that it had a lot and I mean a lot of sex jokes just to push the pg-13 to a r. Luckily it didn't cause I mean they're the Brady Bunch and I hope another sequel comes out quickly.This was way better than the first movie and a lot people said it was bad--but you need to luv the Brady Bunch to enjoy the movie and even if you dont like t.b.b you will still enjoy the comedy and the groovy style "},{"Title":"A Very Brady Problem.","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A Very Brady Sequel (1996) Dir Arlene Sanford / Cast Shelley Long, Gary Cole, Tim Matheson, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Christine Taylor Every bit as dumb as The Brady Bunch Movie only far worse and dirtier. When a priceless statue is uncovered it somehow ends up in the Brady home. It seems to be a routine day. The two youngest children play detective to find a missing doll. Dad brings middle son to the job site. Mother gets her hair done. Jan pretends to have a secret boyfriend. Greg and Marcia argue as to who will shack up in the attic. Then Tim Matheson shows up claiming to be Carol's first husband but he is really there to find the statue. Ads emphasize Hawaii but only the last twenty minutes take place there. The relationship between Greg and Marcia all but screams incest. Director Arlene Sanford fails to realize the sitcom for what it was and as a result we are subject to humour that would not have in the series. With that said fans of the sitcom will no doubt find this film offensive. As for the cast, Gary Cole and Shelley Long are cardboard as Mike and Carol in all their happy flare. Matheson plays a cardboard villain who grows to detest the glee and sing-song attitude of this family. The children are reduced to horny teenage updates primped to be the next tabloid fix. The result is a pointless escapade that should be buried. Score 1 / 10 "}{"Title":"Not as fun and a little more awkward than the first movie","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It turns out that the horse statue in the Brady family living room is a priceless artifact unbeknownst to the Bradys. The gang is back with the same satirical take on the 70s TV family. Tim Matheson plays the mysterious man who shows up claiming to be Carol Brady's first husband Roy. Carol doesn't recognize him but he claims to be disfigured by an elephant. Everybody buys into the story as he tries to steal the horse.The gang is still fun satire but Tim Matheson adds nothing to the movie. The setup needs to be more natural and not so stupid. The family should be the only ones doing silly things. Also they keep pushing Marcia and Greg together. Everything is just a little bit too awkward. The first Brady Bunch movie is much more in keeping with the ideas of the original TV show. "},{"Title":"ages are irrelevant","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The ages are weird and not really relevant. For example, the lady who plays the second oldest girl was born on 1969. Yet the movie was released in 1996. She'd be like 27, and in the movie she looks like 12 years old or something. Christine Taylor who plays the oldest girl is 2 years younger. I don't know about the rest of the cast. Something tells me this movie wasn't filmed in a year. It was probably filmed over 10 years or something. Anyway,this film was pretty good except for some visual weirdness. I reckon the long lost husband is an idiot. The plot was simple, not many other rubbish and junk. But anyway, overall I give 6/10. "},{"Title":"Soooooo hilarious","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I grew up watching re-runs of The Brady Bunch. I have watched every episode, several times. Two actors in this movie were spot on, the ones who played Marcia and Mr. Brady. It's so fascinating for me to watch them. Some reviewers thought Shelley Long did a good job as Carol, to that I have to disagree. I'm left rather confused by people giving her praise. There were a few times she sounded like Carol but that's about it.And the girl who played Jan, well, what can I say? She is absolutely hilarious. She plays Jan well, sounds like her and stuff but she puts her own crazy twist to the character which makes her the best thing in the film. She could carry the movie all on her own.And for the people all bent out of shape over the Marcia, Greg love scene, oh c'mon, it's a COMEDY! Marcia and Greg weren't even blood related and it's well known they had a thing for each other during the taping of the show. So it's FUNNY! A great shock factor. I couldn't believe they were putting that in the movie when I first saw it. "},{"Title":"Guilty enjoyment","Date":"15 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After The Brady Bunch Movie was a surprisingly success in 1995, just a year later, A Very Brady Sequel was made, continuing the line of Brady Bunch movies that were paying homage to the original series, but also lampooning them by parodying their cheeriness and their persistent nice-ness.In my original review of The Brady Bunch Movie, which I did in song (I also planned to do this one in song as well, but we all need to be serious sooner or later), I took the original Television show's theme song and rewrote the lyrics to replicate my thoughts on the film. I said in the third verse, And if one day I'm strick-en with cyni-cism. And you look onto this review as not groovy. You can go on to not trust me. After I enjoyed The Brady Bunch Movie. I suppose the same line is valid in this review too. I'm not necessarily proud that I enjoyed both film adaptations, but there are times when we can not help what we liked. Again, from the first frame, I enjoyed the Brady's overwhelming eccentricities.The storyline is pure simplicity; the Brady's are stuck in the seventies while the whole world has kindly shifted into the nineties, therefore, capturing the idea that the Brady's, while timeless, are also pretty outdated. Mike Brady (reprised by Gary Cole) is contemplating what to give his darling gold-haired wife, Carol (Shelley Long) for their anniversary, but in the nick of time, a man claiming to be Carol's first husband named Roy (Tim Matheson) shows up and tries to win Carol back. In reality, he's a snaky con-man, searching for a statue of a marble horse.While the family naively welcomes Roy back home, Greg is hasty about the whole thing, yet never questions if something is really behind this alleged miracle. It is never truly said, however, how Roy managed to know all there was to know about the family, but nevermind that small little detail. The subplots follow other Brady characters, as expected, such as Jan trying to boast to the family about her new boyfriend, George Glass (who is imaginary), Marcia and Peter possibly falling in love, and the family traveling to Hawaii in the latter half of the picture.Again, much like the original film, the whole idea and premise is a little anarchic, but not to the point of utter senselessness. We do not get much in the area of outsider reactions, but we didn't in the first one either, so perhaps it wasn't the filmmaker's prime intent. There are certain pictures we can not help but like, and The Brady Bunch films are two of mine. They're silly, deranged, yet deeply, weirdly satisfying and self-aware - the best part of all.Starring Gary Cole, Shelley Long, Tim Matheson, Henriette Mantel, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Christine Taylor, Paul Sutera, Jennifer Elise Cox, and Jesse Lee Soffer. Directed by Arlene Stanford. "},{"Title":"Very Good Parody of a Very Bad T.V. Show","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First off, it should go without saying that The Brady Bunch was one of the worst, lamest, stupidest shows on television, but it goes without saying, too, that a lot of forty-and- fiftysomethings disagree. That, I think, is pretty much solely because it reminds them of their childhood, when most of them were happier, and had their whole life ahead of them, and any show that they remember watching in their youth, and that has some semblance of the styles, values and attitudes of that era, regardless of how bad the writing is, will do the same thing for them. With dialogue and behavior so brain-damaged it's almost a surreal experience to watch, it's perfect fodder for a satire. It should have been done in the late seventies, of course, a few years after it was cancelled, but better late than never. Unfortunately, these are affectionate satires created by people who seemingly actually liked the show, but they still work because the jokes are so dead-on and they string all the elements of the show together to create simple, entertaining plots. They're actually very campy, which is probably the best way to approach this immaterial material. The sequel, for a change, is the superior of the two. The first one was kind of boring, which is the worst thing a satire can be. The plot of the stolen horse in the sequel is appropriately ludicrous. Christine Taylor as Marcia bears a freakily uncanny resemblance to Maureen McCormick. Olivia Hack creates a classic distortion of Cindy. The only characters that don't quite work are Christopher Daniel Barnes as Greg, using facial mannerisms that parody straight-edge 70's nerds in general but not Greg in particular, and Shelley Long as Carol. There's always something subtly sad and pitiful about Shelly Long's face, voice and mannerisms in everything she's acted in. It works for Jay Pritchett's ex-wife and Diane Chambers, but is precisely wrong for Carol Brady. Her character seems like it thinks deeply and gets depressed, which makes the character too three-dimensional. Tim Matheson as Carol's fake ex-husband is humorously self-serving and unctuous. It's just personal taste, but I found the short-sleeve Banlon shirts he wears in almost every scene really annoying. Zsa Zsa Gabor's cameo was great. I don't see the satirical significance of having Rosie O'Donnell there though. There was one missed opportunity for a good joke. After the scene where Roy has a trip after eating spaghetti in which Alice accidentally put his stash of psychedelic mushrooms, he asks Marsha, Who put the psychedelic mushrooms in the spaghetti? She should have said, Go ask Alice. I think she'll know. "},{"Title":"A Laugh Every 10 Seconds !","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Cindy You can't take my mommy! / Marcia Cindy's right! Take Jan!Without a doubt this is the best comic movie of 1996, but one of the best ever. It got nearly all what I need out of a comedy. The pace was the real hero of it; since uniquely the talented lines don't stop throughout the whole thing. This is compared to the first movie&#x85;What first movie ?! Simply this one learned its lesson out of (The Brady Bunch Movie &#x96; 1995). This time it's brighter, faster, and took the irony to the next level. Now the joke is on you Brady people ! Attractively the matter of making fun of the Brady family Look at the hair, the clothes, the constant cheerfulness was a stroke of genius. It's like what if the Brady Bunch came out of the reruns to our present day ?! This great no-time machine matter put them as they are in the middle of our world to live one of the sharpest paradoxes ever between not only the 1970s and 1990s, but also between the polished, so idealistic, American TV once and the reality's taste after 25 years; where the Brady songs would be misplaced, too gay, and annoying ! Or how the 90s's fashions, drugs, or menage a trois would affect the family.. sorry, THIS family! To be generally a brilliant Brady movie and Brady spoof in the same time ! All of that through the situations of the main plot  a fake father (I loved the way he turns into Brady's victim !), stolen statue, kidnapped mother, an adventure to bring her back.. and so on. As you see, the comedy here works on 2 levels (the irony of one out-of-its-time family, and a tale of how this family must get together) and no wonder folks, since one of the movie's makers is (Harry Elfont). He is not a scriptwriter with too many works on him, only too interesting comedies like (Josie and the Pussycats &#x96; 2001) or (Surviving Christmas &#x96; 2004). And I believe (AVBS) is his highest achievements yet.The dialog was crazily funny. OH MY GOD, you can't count the lines that really clicked. And who might forget the dialog of the oldest boy with his fake father about girls, or the one of the mom and the airport's employee (misunderstanding at its top). Let alone the creative and original comic situations (the oldest son searching for his lost mom while surfing, the scene in which we hear all the regretful testimonies even the Brady doll's !). And the performances, OHHH the performances ! For instance  this is the most funny role Christine Taylor ever made, Gary Cole wasn't more droll or charismatic, Shelley Long IS Carol Brady and its perfect parody as well, and how Jennifer Elise Cox could walk while shaking her braids this clever and this goofy ?! I have no idea ! With the short appearances of (John Hillerman) from (Magnum), and (Barbara Eden) from (I Dream of Jeannie), in nearly their famous TV characters, it's more than obvious that it's not a homage to the TV at the 1960s or the 1970s; it's rather a homage to the classic TV as a whole, to reflect unquestionable loyalty and honoring, and refute any supposed toying or disgracing.The average length of shots without laughing = 10 seconds ! It amuses more than any big production comedy with big names. And it delivers even for anyone didn't watch the original TV show too. In one word  it is a classic in despite of any box office or any pedant critic.Finally  Roy  Marcia. Oh, Marcia, Marcia, Marcia. You have grown up to be so gorgeous! / Marcia  I know / Roy  And Jan. My dear Jan... Isn't Marcia gorgeous?! "},{"Title":"A Pretty Good Sequel to a classic spoof...","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A VERY BRADY SEQUEL was the 1996 sequel to THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE which tries to touch upon all the episodes of the classic TV series that the first movie didn't. The paper-thin premise of this sequel centers on the appearance of a shady con-man (Tim Matheson) who arrives on the Bradys' doorstep claiming to be Carol's long-lost first husband, who, according to this film's opening scene, was lost at sea. The con-man is really there to get his hands on a statue that has sat in the background of every episode of the TV show and we now learn that it is part of a set and worth a lot of money. But the funniest part of this movie for me is a subplot in which after Roy's arrival, Greg (Christopher Daniel Barnes) and Marcia (Christine Taylor) learn they may not be brother and sister and start lusting after each other. This is, of course, a knowing nod to all those who have read Barry Williams' book GROWING UP BRADY where he confesses to having been madly in love with Maureen McCormick and had trouble looking at her in a sisterly way when they were working. This movie addresses this in a hysterical scene where Greg and Marcia are sharing the room in the attic and start undressing in silhouette. This scene is cleverly shot and perfectly performed by Barnes and Taylor. The rest of the cast has settled comfortably into their roles for this sequel, especially Gary Cole, who is just spooky as Robert Reed as Mike Brady and Jennifer Elise Cox, who steals every scene she is in as Jan. The fun peters out before a truly lame finale, but for true fans, there is fun to be had here. "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel to a film adaptation of a classic TV show with smashing performances","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A VERY BRADY SEQUEL, in my opinion, is an excellent sequel to a film adaptation of a classic TV show with smashing performances. Also, even though everyone gave an appealing performance, I liked Carol's (Shelley Long) the best. In addition, I thought that Roy/Trevor (Tim Matheson) was a very despicable guy. Also, I thought that Marcia (Christine Taylor) was somewhat arrogant. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did a very good job. In conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent sequel to a film adaptation of a classic TV show with appealing performances to any fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"its okay but you will love it","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i think that its not the best sequel and its kinda stupid but its still a great movie for Brady Bunch lovers. but its a really good story. the lines could of bean not as cheesy but whatever thats what makes the scenario funny. its a movie that you could watch with kids because there's no ''bad words'' and nothing thats not proper except one little kiss but who cares ... its actually maybe not a movie for like 4 years old but its a movie for like 7 and over and its in between a general and pg movie...you and you're kids will love it !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! so you have to watch this movie its great. give this movie a chance because i am sure that you will fall in love with it !!!! "},{"Title":"Go!Brady Bunch!!Go!","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Another good movie, with a few new touches!My best part was when the maid put mushrooms into the guy's pasta, and he saw colours! Then the Brady Bunch asked what was wrong with those mushrooms she put in his pasta, and she said there was nothing, and when they all left the kitchen , the maid went into the fridge and closed the fridge door! HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!The interesting part was when we all find out Carol's first lover, who she thaught was dead!Amazing!Another funny part was when Carol was going to get a new hair style , and when they were finished, she looked just the same, and it was the same! HA!HA!HA!HA!8/10 "}{"Title":"Great comedy.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had zero expectations for this flick, and I would NEVER watch the original Brady Bunch episodes, but A Very Brady Sequel is terrific.  Virtually everything works here.  Gary Cole has brilliant comic delivery--I sure wish we saw more of him these days.  This is one of those movies that you appreciate more over time; it isn't necessarily laugh-out-loud hilarious, but it is incredibly entertaining.  Great literature this is not, but if you want a funny, well crafted comedy with some great writing and performances, give this Sequel a look. "},{"Title":"positive.","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedy as a genre is often overlooked as an art. Perhaps I am biased, but I think this film is possibly as close to Perfection as a Human can achieve. Each cast member is chosen perfectly, for the maniacally upbeat Mrs. Brady to the Oscar-cheated Jan. Sceptics may argue that it is a dumb film, but I argue that it is anything but. Witness the budding romance between Greg and Marsha, in equal parts titillating and sickening. Witness Mr. Brady's utterly incomprehensible moralistic speeches (Children are like little people. Only younger He declares earnestly.)or Roy, the modern day interloper as it dawns on him that he's tripping with the Bradys. And then there's Jan. Jan is one of the most incredibly wonderful characters ever scripted. All the best lines revolve around her. (Please don't take my Mommy! cries the youngest. Take Jan! suggests Marsha, to the agreement of the rest of the family.) I cannot convey the brilliance of Jennifer Elise Cox in that role. The George Glass storyline makes her simultaneously pitiful and terrifying. Or that walk. She can do it on stairs, while dancing...Jan has become my personal heroine, just for the driving scene. Breathtaking. Words can't express it. I can't make you love it like I do. To paraphrase, if you've seen it, you'll understand. "},{"Title":"Just as funny as the first","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Trouble comes to the happy family when Carol's supposedly dead husband Roy turns up.  However he is really a fraud who is planning to steal a horse sculpture belonging to the family that he has recognised as being worth $20million.  Meanwhile the children have problems of their own.If you liked the first film then you'll be right at home here.  Just like the TV show the plot is cheesy and silly, but that doesn't matter.  Again like the last film the self-mocking tone is bang on, even if it is a bit harder this time.  The whole semi-incest thing is funny (really, they aren't related &#150; it makes more sense than pretending neither ever though anything) even if it's close to the bone but it's typical of the great mocking humour.This film has even more innuendo than the first and is a little less enjoyable for it &#150; the first was more wholesome and had better twists, but it's still funny.  The cast are as good as before and Matheson is very good as he tries to blend in with these freaks!Overall it's not perfect.  It's a bit silly and not exactly a very substantial film but it is funny and self mocking which is really all I wanted from it!  I enjoyed it and anyone who shares this sense of humour will enjoy it too! "},{"Title":"I Believe in George Glass!... really, I do!!!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another hilarious effort here, and once again the references from the TV show spring up all over the place. Pretty creative how they made that ugly, ever-present horse statue near the staircase the focal point of the movie, with Tim Matheson (who ironically portrayed the oldest child in the Yours, Mine and Ours, the late '60s movie that inspired the whole Brady Bunch thing to begin with!) claiming to be Carol Brady's long-lost first husband so he can claim that valuable statue as his own. Heck, they even managed to incorporate the Brady Kids cartoon into the movie with the hysterical Tripping with the Bradys sequence (complete with Ping and Pong the pandas and Marlon the magic mynah bird!). If there's ever going to be a third Bunch movie, here's hoping they incorporate the short-lived Variety hour into it (featuring Greg pushing Peter into the swimming pool!) and maybe even a special appearance by Martha Quinn! "},{"Title":"A Notch Down From the Original.","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, this movie wasn't all that great. The first one was funny, but wasn't really needed. This movie was okay, but can't and never will beat the television show, same with the original Brady Bunch movie. This movie was okay. I give A Very Brady Sequel a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"For fans of the serious","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Like the first one, this is most likely only going to be funny to those who know the series. If you have no knowledge of the original television show, why the hell would you even watch this.It's a hilarious movie with lots of inside jokes for true B.Bunch fans. "},{"Title":"very very funny","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is very funny, the title suits the film perfectly. The story may be one of the worst every written, but its very very funny. The acting is first class, its what makes up for the terrible storyline. Some girl here commented and said it was nasty - where did she get that? Anyone with a bit of sense would know its a piss take and its very very funny. Example Marcia saves Greg from drowning by mouth to mouth. He wakes up, sees her (with that big brady smile) and then rushes off. They ask him why he's leaving so fast, response something suddenly came up "},{"Title":"Groovy","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really didn't care for A very Brady Sequel when I saw it in the theater in 1996, but when I recently saw it again, I had to admit, I got some good laughs. The whole cast eerily channels the cast of the TV show again, and the musical numbers are great. Tim Matheson plays such a slimy villian and he's very good at it! I'd always wondered what the significance of that horse statue was, but I guess now we know. If you liked the first Brady Bunch movie, check out this one! "},{"Title":"Anyone know Latin for Let the viewer beware!...?","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fans of the original series divide on this take-off of the show where Carol's original husband shows up alive, apparently looking for a lost treasure that could lead to a lot of money. The only good thing about it is that it would mean Greg and Marcia aren't really siblings anymore as they FINALLY realize what growing up means to their bodies.As with the first movie, some of the show's original scenarios are also played out, including Greg moving up to the attic, dating his sister's rival for cheerleader captain, as well as Marcia dating his rival on the basketball squad. Peter goes to work at his father's firm (I thought it was Greg who got the job in the original series), Jan still deals with her personal insecurities, Bobby becomes a junior detective, and Cindy is still obsessed with her doll.The only good thing that they got the rest of the scenarios in from the original series is that it means there won't be another sequel starring this clan of a misplaced family, stuck in the 70's.2 out of 10 stars is a gift, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"A very BrADy sequel","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very bad sequel, as summary states. Have not watched the first movie, and after seen this don't expect me to.Silly crap supposedly taking up a family in the states completely freaked up by clothes and stuff from the 70s. Plot is a longshot and there are poor performances by everyone and that does even include the animals in it. Junk! "}{"Title":"Greg and Marcia discover they're not REALLY brother and sister","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After the great success of The Brady Bunch Movie in 1995 the producers didn't waste time in offering a sequel the very next year that's even better. Both films poke fun at the Brady family's wholesome and unified spirit, but also highlight their early-70's outlandishness by having the stories take place in the mid-90s.I'm giving A Very Brady Sequel a fairly high grade because it's funny and entertaining from beginning to end. All the cast and guest stars are great, including the villain played by Tim Matheson. Christine Taylor stands out as Marcia, although it's impossible to ever out-do the awesome Maureen McCormick. The funniest subplot is the sudden infatuation between Greg and Marcia (when it dawns on them that they're not REALLY brother and sister and&#x85;) while one of the best sequences is the public pool scene, embellished by black versions of Jan and Marcia, lol.The film runs 90 minutes and was shot in Santa Monica & Los Angeles, CA, and Hawaii.GRADE A- "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A Very Brady Sequel The hardest part of blending families is when two kids have the same name.Fortunately, none of the step-siblings in this comedy share a moniker.When Carol's (Shelley Long) long thought dead first husband (Tim Matheson) turns out to be very much alive, her marriage to Mike Brady (Gary Cole) and the home they've built with their six children, Greg (Christopher Daniel Barnes), Marcia (Christine Taylor), Jan (Jennifer Elise Cox), Bobby (Jesse Lee Soffer) Cindy (Olivia Hack), and housekeeper (Henriette Mantel) is jeopardized.But their bond is tightened when their mom is kidnapped and the gang must head to Hawaii to rescue her.One of the few sequels - especially a comedy - to equal its original, this lampoon of the beloved 1970s sit-com plays on familiar themes from the show but with tongue-in-cheek and incestual innuendo. Besides, you're not genetically related, so why can't you French kiss your step-pet?Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We may wonder why they would make a sequel, given that the original series is widely considered so fluffy. But A Very Brady Sequel isn't half bad. Portraying a man (Tim Matheson) showing up at the Bradys' house and announcing that he was Carol's first husband long believed dead, the movie pulls some neat tricks. The whole thing about George Glass was kinda funny.So, there's nothing particularly special here, but it's an OK way to pass time. Like in the first movie, we can definitely see the contrast between the 1970s and 1990s. Also starring Richard Belzer, Barbara Eden and David Spade in small roles. "},{"Title":"Was it really like that?","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never saw the original tv show or the first movie, so I don't know how accurate a satire this lightweight bit of amusing fluff was. But if it was in any way a realistic representation of the tv show from the seventies, it stands as a testament to how the tv networks must have had a dismissive contempt for their audiences, to show the antics of what was apparently a nauseating, saccharine sweet family. "},{"Title":"A Far Out And Groovy Sequel, Man!","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Another satirical look at the Brady clan juxtaposed to the 1990's. Actually has some very funny moments, especially with the actors uncanny ability to imitate the original characters. This one also has the usual run of cameos, offset with the comical parody. If the first movie tickled you, this sequel will not disappoint. Beware of the really, mucho-cornball ending that was a big anti-climax, to an otherwise humorous outing. "},{"Title":"No better or worse than the first film, and the cast is very game...","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bright, easy-to-take follow-up to 1995's The Brady Bunch Movie, a spot-on (if not especially hilarious) send-up of the kitschy '70s TV series about a widower with three boys who marries a single mother with three girls. The television show never explained what happened to Carol Brady's first husband, which is the engaging starting point for this plot. Tim Matheson shows up claiming to be the long-lost father of Marcia, Jan and Cindy--but is he an imposter? Has the same wonderful sets and color schemes from the 1995 movie, and the same cast is reassembled in high style, but the basic problems from before remain weak, repetitive gags and in-jokes stolen from the TV show retold without any irony (only camp value). Mixture of silly, harmless laughs and groaners make the results enjoyable for fans, but intolerable to anyone else. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Dirty Movie or Gullible Series?","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Appears that my prediction of the reactions to the Greg & Marcia innuendos was fairly accurate. One could easily characterize Greg & Marcia's mutual discovery as turning a wholesome series into something that trivializes incest. If anything, it was gullible on the part of the TV show to ask us to assume that the grafting in through the parents marriage would be a seamless one. Greg & Marcia were not genetically siblings, & the fact that they were the oldest means that they would be most aware of the lack of biological origin to their sibling-hood. Especially sleeping in the same house. Kind of reminded me of Blue Lagoon-kind of.  I must admit that I was relieved that they refrained from making it a full blown involvement, because the image of them as siblings was sufficiently ingrained in my mind that I was uncomfortable with it. Therefore, it was relieving that they were uncomfortable with it too. In that sense, I think the temptation was handled in good taste, & that the movie was well balanced between being in touch with its viewers sensitivities & spoofing the weaknesses of the show. "},{"Title":"good, yet nasty","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie is good if u liked the first movie, but it's very weird and gross how marcia and greg fall for each other, i mean hello, their brother and sister. Well step-brother and sister. but anywayz it's nasty.  "},{"Title":"Nice concept, but it just didn't work.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sequel to The Brady Bunch Movie. The Brady's meet a man called Roy Martin who claims to be carol's lost husband. But this man turns out to be an imposter . . .Nice concept, but it just didn't work for this movie (although funnier than the Brady Bunch Movie). But still a nice try to make a parody of not only the 1964 Brady Bunch series, but also of the whole American Dream concept of the late 60's.So my advise to you watch this movie only in combination with alcohol, then you probably get a good laugh out of it. Or you can concentrate on one of Hollywood's worst Shelley Long. Cause her acting performance in this movie is also worth a few good laughs. "},{"Title":"Vile and lascivious","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This sequel to 1994's Brady Bunch Movie proved to be very something, but not very brady.  Very realistic?  I think not;  members of a family as wholesome as the Bradys would never sleep with each other.  Very satirical?  Not here either;  the subjects of satire have to be slightly recognizable when presented in their new form.  Here is not the Brady Bunch.  All this film presents is a group of folks more intent on slandering the retrospective reputation of the Bunch than presenting a pleasant, uproarious and deadly accurate spoof which had already been done in 1994.I suppose that the filmmakers realized that they couldn't make more of the same movie, but they should have quit while they were ahead.  I waited with much anticipation for this film and was thoroughly disappointed by it.  Fortunately it had little success as most people remember the original and better Brady Bunch Movie, not this unbelievable waste of good Brady impersonators--a very poor sequel. "}{"Title":"Agreeably ,A Very Bad  sequel as well as  A  Very Sorry Sequel .","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Greg & Marcia Attracted to each other is sick ,s-i-c-k, sick yes that's right even though they're not blood related it's still sick not only as a coworker of mine from my old theater job agreed & of which is why she'd never think of falling in love with her step brother but along with how it's not right when they're brought up under the same roof but as another old coworker of mine of whom is a lead usher agreed about & as I'd explained to him was a very good point as Carol explained to Bobby on the TV Show The only steps in this house are those the ones that go up to your bedroom now you get up there right now.Maybe as many reviews that I've heard & read said that this was better than the first as even my sister Elaine thought but as I even told her that I personally don't think so. Also maybe there were some good recreations as in the first one & I did like the Moesha sequence of which the loose base on reality is that when least expected you see reflections of yourself & others in others as even I've also had experienced.I also liked Mike's Punch of which showed a sudden face of Mike of which we'd never seen before even on the TV Show but other than these this also goes too far with Greg & Marcia attracted to each other. Normally the Brady Bunch is Stevie's favorite family but not this time around,sad to say but still very much so.This movie is also really so very agreeably A Very Sorry Sequel.Let's see more of the original cast in another TV-Reunion Movie as well as an edited version of this one without having Greg & Macia being attracted to each other. Truthfully Stephen Steve G. Baer a.k.a. Ste. "},{"Title":"Not Worth The Watch","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not worth the watch. The characters are so very annoying, and old jokes are frequently told. I can't believe this actually became a movie. The writing is horrid, the actors don't come close to the original cast, and the rest is just a big waste of time. "},{"Title":"A Very Sorry Sequel.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Luke warm sequel to an original that was little more than a pile of ashes, A Very Brady Sequel is by-the-numbers right down the line. This time the hideous horse statue (which turns out to be worth $20 million) in the titled family's house is up for grabs by the evil Tim Matheson (who pretends to be Shelley Long's long-lost first husband). The dim-witted family, headed by the boring Gary Cole, once again annoys all around them with their sickening 1960s routine of dressing poorly and singing even worse. All in all if you love the sitcom, sit back and enjoy. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Was the first THAT successful?","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I guess so. A Very Brady Sequel is borderline stupidity, which I suppose is the purpose. I'm still trying to figure out if this is a spin-off of the television show, or a parody using the same characters? You could watch the movie and try to figure it out, but quite honestly...it sucks. Don't waste your time. 2/5 stars - "}]