[{"Title":"Solid sequel","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While not quite equal to the original, I found Prophecy II to be very very good, especially considering it's a sequel. I've read a lot of bad reviews of this film, which I don't understand. It seems so much like the original to me, and the original instantly became one of my favorite movies.As a bonus (to me anyway) one of my favorite actors, Tom Towles, has a small role.The scene just before the ending is absolutely breathtaking. "},{"Title":"So below standard","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Prophecy II was an ok movie but it lacked a certain quality the first had. I mean, the first one was so much better there is no comparison. Christopher Walken comes back to play Gabriel, but that and a few humorous sections were all that was good about this film. The ending was the best part. Too bad you have to watch the whole thing to get to it. If you've seen and liked the first, then I recommend watching this one, but don't have too high of expectations.  "},{"Title":"Oh, man!","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is another example of a sucky sequel to a great movie.  I highly recommend The Prophecy, but this movie was a dud from the start.  The acting was decent all the way around, but the story line was weak and added nothing to the origional.  A 4 out of 10 at best. "},{"Title":"Seriously lacking in the original story, but still entertaining","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In this sequel to The Prophecy, Christopher Walken returns as the renegade Archangel Gabriel, who, after years of torment in Hell, is returned to the earthly plane by Lucifer, who had decided that Hell isn't big enough for the two of them. Again Gabriel seeks to end mankind's reign on Earth, but instead of searching for the perfect evil soul to achieve his ends, Gabriel is now in search of the one thing that can defeat him a Nephilim, a being born of a human woman and an angel. Los Angeles nurse Valerie Rosales (Jennifer Beales) is the mother of this being, having been impregnated by the angel Danyael (Russell Wong), who now seeks to protect Valerie from Gabriel. As in the first film, Gabriel is (quite hilariously) inept when it comes to modern technology, so he enlists the services of Izzy (Britney Murphy), a depressed teenager whom he resurrects after she commits suicide.The Prophecy II was seriously lacking in the story ideas established in the first film. Thomas Daggett, the hero from that film, appears briefly, only to meet a horrible end at the hands of Gabriel. (Sorry for the spoiler, but I personally feel this is a minor plot point.) Yet, the film was still entertaining, even though it might take a while for viewers to piece things together. Christopher Walken is simultaneously quirky and creepy as always, while Jennifer Beals, Russell Wong, Britney Murphy, and Eric Roberts (as the angel Michael) deliver decent performances. While the story lines from the first movie were dismissed in this film, this sequel sort of makes up for that by continuing the Nephilim concept established here in the third installment, The Prophecy III The Ascent. All in all, I give The Prophecy II a 5 out of 10 on a scale of 1 to 10 in my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"The Prophecy II continuation of a great plot, great supporting characters, and the amazing Christopher Walken....","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Last week, I rented The Prophecy, out of nowhere. I am glad I did, because I had been walking past that box on the shelf at the video store for a few years. After viewing that, I had to see the second. So, two nights ago, I rented the second one. I just watched this movie, got on the IMDb, and read all of the user reviews. I must say that I am shocked to see how many people did not like this sequel. To anyone who cannot understand the plot, I ask why? It is so simple! Christopher Walken returns as Gabriel, and once again shows us why he is one of the greatest actors of all time (and one of my personal favorites). The beautiful Brittany Murphy gives an untouchable performance, and her scenes with Walken are definitely ones to see. Russell Wong and Jennifer Beals also give good performances. The dialogue, though penned by another screenwriter, is just as good as the first. When I watched the movie, I had no idea it was another writer - I thought it was the same guy! While I think the first movie was slightly better, this is definitely a worthy sequel. I can't wait to rent part 3!***** Warning Spoilers Ahead!!! *****To all those people who can't understand the plot, maybe you should give the movie another watch. In simplest terms Gabriel has to stop the birth of a child that will end the second war in Heaven. Is that so hard?***** E N D     S P O I L E R S *****All in all, you should see this movie - but make sure you see the original Prophecy first! "},{"Title":"Still relies too much on Walken - but a worthy sequel to an underrated first flick.","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" To get us started here is a quick recap of the original filmThe Angels in heaven have split into two factions and are at war. One side is envious of the gifts God has bestowed upon humankind and basically wants to wipe out the human race, the other thinks be cool Mun, and just wants everyone to get along.In the first film there was an evil soul that could turn the tide of the angelic war if it fell in the wrong hands.In this film there is also something that might provide a great advantage to either side, in this case it is an unborn child, and this time as we are told early in the piece the war between angels has come to Earth.Thomas Daggett, the ex-priest turned cop from the first film has understandably lost the plot and is holed up in a monastery mumbling to himself nonsensically and scribbling down his visions. (He has also changed from Elias Koteas to some other actor.)This film revolves around a young woman named Valerie (Jennifer Beales), who looks very much like Valerie Madsen from the first film, only if she was a brunette and had longer hair. Anyway in this film Val is driving along minding her own business when she hits a guy. Now I won't say he was a pedestrian because he wasn't walking, he literally fell from the sky, being a film about angels we can guess where he has come from...His name is Danyael, and when a distraught Val takes him to the hospital he is friendly enough to mouth Don't be afraid as he is wheeled into the emergency room, despite the fact that he should be all types of f*cked up.Meanwhile Tommy Daggett continues to be crazy with all the visions.There is a cool Terminator scene where someone is seemingly born from beneath the Earth's surface, somewhere fiery and dare I say it hellish?Good old Gabriel is back baby!! (At least they had the sense to bring back the best character from the first film, although while filming this Christopher Walken must have missed out on another 4 or 5 crappy films that he would ordinarily have taken. The man seems to have no quality screening mechanism.)In the next 20 minutes of screen time Danyael makes a miraculous recovery, chats up Val and gets her four months pregnant in 2 days. Now that's potency!Gabriel also decides to visit Tommy for assistance and without expanding Thomas Daggett plays no further part in this, nor the 4 other sequels!It turns out that Valerie's unborn child will be the key figure in the angelic war, having been born of woman and angel known as a nephalim. In short Gabriel and Co want to remove it from the picture by any means necessary, and Danyael and Co swear to protect it.Despite the mounting evidence;- the recovered car crash victim, - the 4 months in 2 days pregnancy, - dead bodies with no eyes and organs, - a warning from both the mortician who says this has happened before, get away!, - and a chat with Thomas Daggett's priest who says much the same ... Valerie is still skeptical, until Gabriel shows up and tries to rip the unborn child from her, somewhat against her will I would guess. And the rest of the film is basically a keep-e-off game between Gabriel and Danyael, with Valerie and her belly-bun as the ball.There is ample opportunity for this film to veer into Highlander cheesy territory, but the reason that it does not is basically the fact that everyone plays it straight... except Walken's Gabriel.Gabriel hams it up in every Prophecy film he appears in, which is actually a good thing folks. Gabriel openly detests humans, he can sniff and taste them, but can't drive or use a computer. As with the first film he takes a recently deceased re-animated assistant to complete such menial tasks, in this film it is actually Izzy, a recent suicide pact victim who just wants things to be the way they were when she was dead. (I guess she got her wish recently!) Gabriel treats her with disdain, bullies her and orders her around, playing the bad guy card beautifully.Without Christopher Walken there would have been no Prophecy 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6. I know he wasn't in the last couple, but this series would have died at 1 without his presence. (And I am not even a die-hard Walken fan like some.)This could have been Big guys in dark coats speaking formally while reading bible verses perched on a rooftop 2, but that probably didn't fit on the poster.Thankfully the filmmaker who took the reins from the original had sense to hold true to the tone, rely on the story rather than big stunts and hokey chase sequences, and kept things simple enough to not lose track. The music is similar to the original, which is a good thing, and they also use the effective (but annoying when a 3 year old is asleep in the next room ) technique of hushed dialogue and loud effects and action.I fully expected The Prophecy 2 to suck when I first watched it, and even recently when I dragged it out again I thought rewatching it would uncover hidden flaws and disappoint. It doesn't.Final Rating - 7.5 / 10. A case of second verse, much the same as the first, but a worthy sequel to a great film. "},{"Title":"Christopher Walken is awesome, the movie just isn't.","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'll give this movie one thing though, I enjoyed watching this one better than the original. It had a more coherent story but thing with it story still was that it just wasn't very good. Not very good is perhaps not the best way to describe it. It's more that it's just very standards stuff all, like we have seen in literally dozens of movies before.So no The Prophecy II does not take any originality prizes but at least the movie was watchable, which is not something I can say about the first movie, from 3 years earlier. Seems like I'm one of the few people who doesn't like the fist movie The Prophecy, so it was sort of surprised with the fact that I sort of liked watching this sequel and thought that it was an improvement over the first movie.Even though its an incredibly standard movie there are still some elements in it that make it stand out. The biggest one is Christopher Walken. He really enjoys playing this role, which must be the reason why he also is in the first 3 movies out of the series. I mean, I don't think he got rich from playing in these cheap and straight-to-video movies. He is the foremost and perhaps only reason why the overall movie is still a fun one to watch. He plays his character with lots of passion and dark humor without ever going too over-the-top with it.There are some other well known actors in this movie as well, such as Russell Wong, Jennifer Beals, Brittany Murphy and Eric Roberts. Never quite understood why these movies always managed to have such a great cast with some big name actors in it.It certainly also helps that the movie isn't too long. It keeps the pace pleasantly high and luckily there is also plenty of action happening, though it's far from anything too impressive, just as the overall movie is.Forgettable but a good enough movie and sequel.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Very disappointing direct to video sequel. (possible minor spoilers)","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the original 'The Prophecy' very much, and was excited when I originally heard about this sequel, especially the idea of two of my all time favourite actors sharing a screen together - Christopher Walken and Eric Roberts. Their scenes together though good, are very brief, and don't occur until the last part of the movie. Before you get that far you have to sit through a lame rehash of the first film. The change of director and writer from the originals Gregory Widen is a major part of the problem. They have simplified the interesting concepts Widen developed and have the tendency to go for action over atmosphere. This is not a good thing. Walken reprises his role as the avenging angel Gabriel, but the script doesn't give him much to play with. The potentially fascinating character of Thomas Daggett (originally played by Elias Koteas) is here played by 'Re-Animator's Bruce Abbott, and is killed off within the first fifteen minutes. Bad idea! The main focus of the story then centres on the lovely Jennifer Beals who inadvertently gets involved in the war in heaven. Like the first movie the supporting cast is strong, and features Brittany Murphy ('Freeway', 'Clueless'), Tom Towles ('Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer') and even punk legend Glenn Danzig. Unfortunately the cast of this movie is by far the most interesting thing about it. A major let down, this! Be sure to watch the original though, it's very good. "},{"Title":"Continuation, but not an equal","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched the Prophecy and Prophecy II on the same night, both for the first time, so the comparisons were really obvious.  Though PII is not a complete waste of time, it was hardly as interesting and exciting as the first.  It did have some good points, however, and I would recommend it to anyone who loved the story of the Prophecy idea.  The climactic scene at the end was excellent.  Very creepy.  DOS and PC lovers will like the humor as Gabriel tries to work a computer.  )  The special effects sequences of angels flying above in the clouds was awesome.  Even so, it lacked something that the first had.  I'd give it a 6/10, and the first a 9/10.  Let's hope Prophecy III will be better.  "},{"Title":"Ho-hum","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" So here we have THE PROPHECY II, a straight-to-video sequel for a film that wasn't all that hot to begin with. Christopher Walken is back as the sinister archangel Gabriel, a renegade determined to bring the existence of the human race to an end, so he goes after a pregnant woman for some reason or other. Yeah, none of this is particularly interesting, mired as it is in middle-of-the-road ordinary.One of the main reasons to watch this film is Walken himself; he brings a wry humour to his central role and he's quite a bit of fun to watch. The rest of the cast is populated by familiar faces who have little to work with. Jennifer Beals is still pretty years after FLASHDANCE although Russell Wong doesn't bring much substance to the part of protagonist. There are also minor roles for Bruce Abbott and Tom Towles as a cop. THE PROPHECY II is full of the usual religious mumbo-jumbo and random kill scenes and feels more than a little disjointed and insubstantial; it's watchable enough for fans of '90s-era movies but you don't bring much away from it. "}{"Title":"The first is better...","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The angel Gabriel is back to try and eliminate the human race that he hates so much, if he wants to succeed in doing this he must prevent the birth of a child as it will be the first child born that is the offspring of an angel and a human.This film starred Christopher Walken, Russell Wong & Jennifer Beals.The Prophecy 2 was released in 1998, three years after the first film. In my opinion the first was quite an enjoyable film, it wasn't excellent by any means but it was a respectable film and I do enjoy watching it. The Prophecy 2, is not as good as the first and just no that good of a film at all. I am yet to see the third instalment of this series, and if you saw this film when it came out, you knew there was going to be a third, because of the ending. Not really recommended as it is a dull movie which doesn't contain a lot of enjoyment and in the end if I were to sum up this movie in one word it would be BORING.**/***** Poor. "},{"Title":"Christopher Walken Makes It Watchable","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lucifer, fearing his kingdom could be overthrown, banishes Gabriel (Christopher Walken) from hell so that he is free to do battle once again with the angels of Christ for his place in Heaven. Jennifer Beals plays a woman impregnated by an angel with the nephilim; a powerful angel with the free will of a human. How this war for heaven plays out on the earthly frontline doesn't bear serious consideration. It's quippy and fairly action packed for a direct to disc sequel. Christopher Walken as the disgruntled Gabriel steals the show with one-liners, a tongue in cheek performance and charisma to burn. Nothing about Prophecy II is functioning at his level. An average supernatural adventure followed by numerous sequels. "},{"Title":"A solid sequel with more gore than last time.","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Gabriel (Walken) is cast out of Hell by Lucifer himself and left on earth. In the meantime, good angel Danyael (Wong) fulfills a prophecy told to him by head angel Michael (Eric Roberts). The ancient prophecy has an angel matting with a human making a half Angel/Human hybrid. The mortal Danyael chooses is a nurse named Valerie Rosales (Beals) who quickly realizes something is not right when her grandmother is found dead and she gets a visit from Gabriel. Danyael helps Valerie escape and spends the rest of the film trying to keep her safe and hidden. Gabriel has picked up another monkey named Izzy (Murphy) who is in pursuit of Valerie. All though unnecessary, this sequel is helped by a good cast with Walken stealing scenes like he did in the original and Beals as a spunky and believable heroine. Director Greg Spence Co-writing with Matt Greenberg takes the best things from the original and repeats them here, but this time injects some real scares and a nastier tone. This film's story doesn't break much new ground, so the tension Spence comes up with is very nice. The horror and gore is ramped up and the tone is actually scarier than the original. Part II is certainly entertaining, even though it isn't quite as thought provoking or original as the first installment. "},{"Title":"Sad and Laughable","Date":"15 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sequel essentially continues down the same Biblically flawed road as its predecessor with a couple of different actors substituting for some of the major characters of the previous film. Basically, Lucifer (this time played by Guri Weinberg) has decided that Hell isn't big enough for both him and Gabriel (Christopher Walken) and so he sends Gabriel back to earth to continue his war with the archangel Michael (Eric Roberts). Meanwhile, the detective Thomas Dagget (now played by Bruce Abbot) has returned to his previous calling and resides in a monastery where he continues to have visions. Anyway, our story starts off with an attractive registered nurse named Valerie Rosales (Jennifer Beals) driving to work and accidentally hitting a man who goes by the name of Danyael (Russell Wong). She takes him to the hospital where he recovers. One thing leads to another and within a very short time they spend the night together. What Valerie doesn't realize is that Danyael is an angel sent by Michael to get her pregnant. Naturally, Danyael succeeds. This causes a serious problem for Gabriel because the nephilim growing inside Valerie is prophesied to end the war in Heaven that Gabriel started. So once again Gabriel launches into a search-and-destroy routine. At any rate, Christopher Walken put on a splendid performance as did Jennifer Beals to a lesser degree. Be that as it may, I didn't care for Russell Wong's acting and I thought Eric Roberts wasn't utilized to his full potential. Likewise, the concept of relocating Eden from Mesopotamia to the United States and making it look like Scranton, Pennsylvania on a Monday night was also a bit weird. Additionally, this film is full of Scriptural inaccuracies and it seemed like the writers were simply making things up as they went along. Not only did they take the characters totally out-of-context but they ascribe motives to beings that are totally inconsistent with Biblical theology. For example, the archangel Michael would never look favorably upon the creation of a nephilim. Neither would Lucifer, for that matter, because the consequences would be incredibly disastrous for him as he knows only too well. And the writers should have known this before they built their entire story around something so preposterous. Again, there are many Biblical errors in this film that some people may not fully realize. Personally, I found the entire plot to be both sad and laughable and I have rated the film accordingly. "},{"Title":"Does Not Hold Up to the Original, But What Do You Expect?","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Gabriel (Christopher Walken) returns to try to destroy the human race he despises so much, with the help of a suicidal teen (Brittany Murphy) and the opposition of the angel Danyael (Russell Wong).I pretty much never get sick of Christopher Walken. While this is not is best movie or one of his best roles, just seeing him act and talk in that voice of his is all I need. I particularly like him being menacing (his humor is good, but sometimes he gets just a little bit too campy).Tom Towles has a cameo role as Detective Waltrip. I had no idea he was in this, but recognized his face immediately. Tom is a great guy, and it was a pleasure to see this horror icon.Brittany Murphy will be remembered for only one thing in this movie, saying, You're only keeping me alive because you don't know DOS. Although her inability to kill herself is morbidly humorous. Eric Roberts also stars... but who cares? "},{"Title":"You have no choice but to watch it","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you're reading this review, chances are you've already seen & liked the first Prophecy and are debating whether to continue the saga. Either that, or maybe you're just a weird person who likes to watch sequels before seeing the original. Whatever waxes yer wings...In either case, if you are interested in dark, religious thrillers about angels doing nasty things, you MUST see the Prophecy trilogy. Yes, I know there are 5 Prophecy films, but we'll just focus on the first 3 for now.Much like Star Wars/Empire Strikes Back/Return of the Jedi, the first 3 Prophecy movies tell a continuing story about 1 character Gabriel, the Archangel of Death (played by Christopher Walken). Although the films' plots are mostly independent of each other, the theme of Gabriel's quest is a continuing story that doesn't wrap up til the end of the 3rd movie. Ergo you can't stop at Prophecy 1. You have to watch all 3.That's all you need to know, but if you want to know more about Prophecy II, here it is. By itself it's a worthwhile flick. What makes it special is the surreal blending of dark suspense and cozy humor, as in the first Prophecy. Although we lose some of the quirky characters who made the first film so memorable (such as Jerry the oozing sidekick, Rachel the catatonic chauffeur, and most of Joseph the stand-up comedic coroner), we get a new one who's just as memorable Brittany Murphy as Izzy the suicidal emo girl (long before the term 'emo' came into being).Walken and Murphy maintain the wacky humor that made the first Prophecy so characteristic & human. The other characters are there for action and furthering the plot, which is pretty straightforward as far as angels-fighting-a-war-on-earth movies go.The music isn't quite as lush as the first, although one of the themesongs (the airy tribal piece) is carried over. Most, if not all, of the movie takes place at night so it is both literally and figuratively dark. Not quite The Crow dark, but dark nonetheless.This movie has a distinct early-90s feel to it. The 90s was a decade of action films leaving behind the simple, clean stories of the 80s and embracing a darker realism (as in Seven and The Usual Suspects). I'd say this 2nd Prophecy film is closer to the 80s than its groundbreaking predecessor, but it's still a good film.Watch it for Walken, watch it for the continuing epic story, watch it for some engaging action and a few great gags. Most of all... just watch it. "},{"Title":"Still pretty good.","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Although this sequel lacks the fun established in the original PROPHECY, it does not miss by much & manages to keep you hooked into the story nonetheless. This time a young woman is being chased by the returning angel GABRIEL, who has a female companion helping him along the way in his quest to kill her & her child (Fathered by a man that she met that was really an angel) that will wind up saving our world in the future, something Gabriel is not happy with, so she seeks the help of another Angel MICHAEL (ERIC ROBERTS) to help protect her & the child. PROPHECY 2 managed to keep me interested throughout it's running time, despite the fact that it lacked the charm, of the original, CHRISTOPHER WALKEN was great yet again as the good angel gone bad Gabriel, Walken's performance kept you interested & the script moved along quiet fine & always kept you wondering on what Gabriel was going to do next, the direction & acting was good, especially BRITTNEY MURPHY as the youth who accompanies Gabriel on his mission, but despite being one of the top billed, ERIC ROBERTS only has a cameo at the end of the film. Fun to watch & recommended for fans of the series, but make sure you watch Part 1 before seeing this, or else you'll be confused. Followed by THE PROPHECY 3 ASCENT *** stars "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let me say I underestimated this movie because I did not like the first one. But I say it and it kept me interested, and it was much better.  This is a must see for any Christopher Walken fan.  The reason I saw this film is because I'll see anything he is in.  Because he is so cool.  And his performance in this film was very very cool.  I love his persona and personality, and in this movie it comes out. "},{"Title":"I waiting for The Prophecy III!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What I can say? 1st. movie was great, 2nd was little bit of commercial! But the story is continuing. Archangel Gabriel remains on Earth, and he has lot of time to meditation above a God love. And time to know mankind. And I thing in 3rd part will be very interesting, how Gabriel comes back to heaven. Because he's still angry with The God! I think it will be very interesting how Gabriel accept the humans? "},{"Title":"I luv this movie","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  BTW, I wonder why there aren't any comment on R.Wong as Danyael??? I guess he, as well, added a flavor....spice....whatever... to this film.... "}{"Title":"If you've seen #1 don't watch #2...","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Prophecy II, what's there to say about it? They've completely abandoned the originality of the first film, and simply made a Chris Walken splatter film. It's not even written by the original writer!If you've seen Nr. 1 don't watch Nr. 2 it's a real disappointment...If you haven't seen Nr. 1 don't watch Nr. 2! Go see Nr. 1 to experience something original and fun "},{"Title":"Really good sequel","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A good sequel. Walken is brilliant again. I just loved the story in Prophecy and the follow-up intrigues even more.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was outstanding!!! It was even better than the first one! Poor Gabriel. I just love Christopher Walken. He is soo cute!!!! This movie is a must see. I give it a 9.5!!! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the First Prophecy, but enjoyable.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion, the first movie is very good. A great original concept, with a good amount of special effects. This sequel, continues 5 years after the first movie, the storyline is not as compelling as the first one, but Christopher Walken per se, is a very good reason to watch this movie. He's perfect on the role of a Vengeful and jealous angel. I would rate 6 on 10. "},{"Title":"Not so hot.","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Personally, I found the movie to be too violent for my tastes.  Granted, it was no Terminator, but still, my overall reaction is not favorable.  Plus, I found the concept overly unrealistic.  Eric Roberts went overboard, but the (human) protagonists were relatively believable.  I'd perhaps rate it at a 3-1/2 overall.  "},{"Title":"pretty decent sequel","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" while i didn't think this movie was quite as good as the first it was still pretty good.Christopher Walken returns and once again steals the show.his character has some great lines,and provides some laughs as well.Brittany Murphy is good here as well.Jennifer Beals was adequate,although i didn't find her performance outstanding.the movie itself was pretty decent,although it loses momentum a few times and i felt it lagged a bit in spots.and i though the ending was actually very good,though.not something you would normally expect from this type of movie.or at least i wouldn't think so.overall,despite some weak points,-having Christopher Walken,some humorous touches,and good ending elevate this sequel.for me,The Prophecy II is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Walken is back! ...in a rather mundane sequel","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first Prophecy wasn't a bad film, but whether or not it deserved a sequel is debatable. So far, it has actually received four sequels - but this is the only one that I've seen. Overall, this film isn't good enough to warrant me bothering with any more follow-ups, but it provides a decent enough hour and twenty minutes of entertainment. Just like the original, this film fuses action with themes of biblical horror and once again follows the fortunes of the diabolical angel Gabriel during another plot to destroy the human race. Naturally, it's all very convoluted and silly; doesn't make much sense and features several elements that are obviously thrown in to sell the film; but hey, you can't expect anything else from a film like this. The film revolves around a child conceived by Gabriel's adversary, Danyael and a normal woman. Gabriel has taken it upon himself to get rid of this baby, which was prophesised by a monk; and after his army of angels have been exterminated, he decides to employ the services of a suicidal girl named 'Izzy'...The main reason I saw this film was, of course, because of the presence of its lead star; Christopher Walken. Walken's role isn't very meaty, but he makes the best of it with a charged performance that steals every scene he's in. The original film benefited from a great star-studded cast to support Walken; whereas this film doesn't. That being said, it does feature some decent actors. Jennifer Beals is good in support along with Russell Wong, while future star Brittany Murphy stands out as the suicide obsessed teen and cult horror fans will recognise Re-Animator's Bruce Abbott in a small role. The film features a plethora of action scenes, which are mostly well done; but after a while it all gets rather dry as the plot isn't too interesting and it all seems to drone on. The film doesn't really fit much with any actual bible stories; which is something of a disappointment as that was one of the best things about the original movie. Overall, Prophecy II is worth seeing for fans of the original, although it's not a particularly good movie. "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel to the original","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Prophecy 2 is a worthwhile entry in the series.**SPOILERS**While driving to work, Nurse Valerie, (Jennifer Beals) accidentally hits a man, Danyael, (Russell Wong) who fell out of the sky. She takes him back to her home. At the same time, fallen angel Gabriel (Christopher Walken) escapes from hell and stalks around LA looking to get back into heaven, killing rival angel Rafael (Glenn Danzig). Danyael escapes and disappears into the LA underworld. Gabriel finds out about Danyael and Valerie and starts to stalk her. Valerie discovers that she is already pregnant with Danyael's child, and starts to go looking for him. Gabriel thinks that the best way to track down Valerie is with a human disciple, and recruits Izzy (Brittany Murphy) to help him. Digging dipper into Danyael's disappearance, she learns that she has stumbled onto an ages old war between the rival factions of God's angels. The child she is pregnant with is to be the person who unites the two warring factions of Heaven. Danyael is able to save her from an attack from Gabriel. Together they go in search of the one person who can fulfill Valerie's fate, Michael (Eric Roberts). Gabriel has also tracked them to Michael's location, and begins to tear it apart looking for Valerie to stop her from delivering the child and ending the war of the angels.The Good News I really enjoy this movie, and I think it is nearly as good as its predecessor. The main improvement over the first one is the heightened gore in the film. There is far more heart ripping in this one than in the first one, which allows for more bloodletting in the time of death than in the other one. We also get to see more gore in the attacks on the two angels in the film. As both are perceived, unknowingly, as a threat to humanity, there are several fine shoot-outs with the police and the two angels. Even Izzy has a few cool gore scenes when she is learning that Gabriel has made her immortal to aid in his search. Being rammed into a wall, impaled by steel rods and even shot several times are all bloody revealed. It was nice to see that after a near-bloodless part 1. Even though it was a little shorter, it never really felt short at all. It always held your attention for the duration, and it keeps enough action coming to entertain anyone.The Bad News Anyone who has even a small amount of religious doctrine will be able to smell the baloney in this movie. It is really so obvious how preposterous this movie is that it almost makes no sense why this is made. A lot of it could be construed as religious at some point, but it does take a lot of construing to believe most of the story. The plot is interesting enough, but a lot of the back-story involved is the main problem.The Final Verdict If you don't have too much of a problem with a lot of religious banter in a movie, this one isn't all that bad. It does have enough to offset the religious parts of the movie, and at least give the film a rental. Gorehounds will be the most pleased with this film.Rated R Graphic Violence, a strong sex scene, and Brief Nudity "},{"Title":"Shouldn't have been made.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the first movie, but this is a textbook example of a sequel that would have been better of left on the drawing board. The general idea in the first movie was, if not great, then at least very interesting. This sequel tries to build upon the idea and the characters from the first movie, and though Christopher Walken is still good as Gabriel, the whole idea suddenly gets a bit ridiculous. If you haven't seen any of these movies, then get the first movie and forget about the sequels, they can take away all of the joy from the original. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but the weakest of the three","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Gabriel (Walken) is back, and he's got his pals with him. This part is the darkest of the three and has more angels in it than you can shake a stick at. There's a lot of nifty fights, heart ripping and cool looking customers - though I found the 'ethereal' look of the angels under par for the series.In 'The Prophecy' Stoltz, Walken and Mortensen had something unearthly about them that made you almost believe they could be supernatural beings. This time most of the angels look like thugs or -in the case of Danyael- like a Haynes underwear model. I found Roberts to be a particularly bad choice for Michael...oh well.The music is great. They kept the score from the original which was a good idea. The choir music gives the characters that 'divine' aura and serenity, while the driving beat underneath lets you know that things are happening - fast. There is also more humor in this one than in the last.Not a movie I'd recommend seeing as a stand alone, but as part of the series. Enjoy.The only problem I had was at the beginning. It is never really explained why Gabriel comes back (and how he manages it), but without Walken this movie wouldn't work.7/10 "}{"Title":"An object lesson in how good movies make bad sequels..","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's not often I feel compelled to give negative criticism of a film; after all I often feel the maxim, if you don't have anything good to say don't say it at all, would be apt advice for the many naysayers we listen to everyday who nitpick at things we like.  If it's all the same to you the reader though I feel compelled to point out that with the lone exception of Christopher Walken in a returning role as Gabriel this movie is pathetically HORRID.  I say this to you to warn you in advance that even if you are a fan of Walken's deadpan delivery and style or liked the original Prophecy that you will be sorely dissapointed.  If you buy it, return it.  If you rent it, make sure it's only ninety-nine cents.What's wrong with this movie?  A full list would take too long to read and would bore you to tears, but a short summary would be the following the once rather crystalline clear picture of the relationship between angels and mortals of the first film is ripped to shreds.  Gabriel is turned from the rather morbid right hand of God he once was (and in this role he is WICKEDLY funny in the first) to little more than a thug for heaven.  Since Walken is so good at playing heavies (we all remember Frank White from King of New York) he is still enjoyable but the supporting cast is an unmitigated and unconvincing mess of mortals and angels alike who couldn't buy a clue for 50 cents.  If you can figure out the plot you're a smarter man than I.  One gets the feeling we wander aimlessly from scene to scene just to move the film along to Walken's next big line.  By the end of the movie you're actually wishing he'd blow his horn and make the walls of Jericho fall on the people who made this un-natural disaster.Bottom line - it's an insult to our intelligence that they made a sequel to this film in the first place.  The original told the right story, answered the questions that should have been, and left alone the ones you were meant to ponder afterwards.  There are no compelling reasons to follow these characters that was in the first - the priest who lost his faith, the little girl who kept the big secret, the teacher who protected her children - even Lucifer himself was more interesting BY himself in the first film than all the other characters in the sequel put together.  I feel sorry for anybody who sees this film and not the first because they'll probably never want to watch the original and that's a real tragedy. "},{"Title":"Entertaining sequel to The Prophecy","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you liked the first film, you'll quite probably like this one too. It's a little more tongue-in-cheek and like most sequels not as good as the original, but it's still Walken as Gabriel with all that entails. The action is still good. Eric Roberts could be better, but he plays Michael not Gabriel. I think the humour was a little more obvious in this one, too. If you didn't like the original the skip it. "},{"Title":"Story Is Laughable, But Walken Fun To Watch","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those films I could rip up unmercifully because the Biblical theology is so brutal - no incorrect, so preposterous, outrageous, stupid, etc. - that it an insult to anyone with any knowledge of The Book. For those viewers of this film who don't, who knows what they'll believe. Hopefully, none of the stuff in here. It also makes evil look cool and the worst angel - Gabriel (Christopher Walken) is not only evil and cool, but has a great a sense of humor. Gosh, ya gotta love the guy! Well, no surprise Hollywood would do that.Having said that, though, and for strictly entertainment value and nothing else, the movie isn't half bad! Walken, regardless of his role, is always fun to watch, the story moves fast and it's only 80 minutes long. You could do worse. "},{"Title":"I'm not usually a big fan of sequels, but the continuity of story line and the introduction of some new characters keep this one fresh and intriguing.","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not usually a big fan of sequels, but the continuity of story line and the introduction of some new characters keep this one fresh and intriguing. I was a little disappointed they could not get Elias Koteas back to reprise his role as Dagget, brief as that part is, but was pleasantly surprised to see Steve Hytner back in the role of Joseph, the coroner. Walken, of course, is consistent as the stars as Gabriel, and brings back a near corpse in the form of Brittany Murphy, who does a much better job in this film that others I have seen her in (In my opinion, the epitome of her career was in Uptown Girls, where she was totally upstaged by Dakota Fanning). Russell Wong is strong in his portrayal of Danyael, with the perfect balance of passion and aloofness. He cares for the human female, but realizes she is mortal, while the Nepahlim they create will not be. Jennifer Beals could have been a bit more passionate in the role, but her performance is passable and doesn't detract from the film's overall theme. Finally Eric Roberts does what he does best, let's his personality shine through, which is to say dispassionate, cold, and ambiguous. But that works here, and since the role is brief, does not detract from the plot or the action. Rated R for sexual situations, language, and graphic violence, this film is a worthy companion to the first, and if you own The Prophecy, this will make a nice addition. But as with all sequels, its a toss up. Definitely worth a viewing, but I suggest you rent it first before you buy a copy. "},{"Title":"Gabriel The Terminating Angel","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Everybody knows that Gregory Widen's original The Prophecy didn't really require a sequel, but you also don't need a degree in rocket science hanging above your chimney to realize that further cash-ins on this profitable horror concept were inevitable. Part two is a very prototypic example of a straight-to-video sequel, meaning the creative and convoluted plot of the original has been simplified a lot in favor of more action, more witty one-liners and a lot more eerie religious scenery. The only good news is that the producers managed to keep Christopher Walken for the role of Gabriel, and he delivers another gloriously brazen performance that promptly justifies the price of a rental. If it wasn't for Walken's performance (and perhaps a couple of players in the supportive cast like Brittany Murphy and Glenn Danzig), The Prophecy II surely would have disappeared into oblivion straight after its release. The movie begins with Gabriel literally getting spat out of hell to proceed with his ongoing War of Heaven here on earth. The purpose of his battle this time is to prevent the baby of nurse Valerie Rosales (Jennifer Beals) from getting born. For you see, her unborn child is the first ever hybrid between a heavenly angel and an earthly monkey and the birth of such a superior being would imply the downfall of Gabriel's evil dominion. Thus, just as in the first movie, he engages a suicidal accomplice to assist him and hunts Valerie all the way down to the Eden for the final showdown. The Prophecy II is an endurable and occasionally even entertaining movie as long as you don't make comparisons with the original and as long as you manage to overlook the multiple plot holes and errors in continuity. Whenever the storyline becomes too tedious, the makers luckily enough always insert a near-brilliant Christopher Walken moment to distract you. His interactions with the rebellious Izzy and particularly his ignorance regarding modern earthly technologies often result in worthwhile and memorable sequences. On a slightly off-topic note, I often felt like The Prophecy II ambitions to look similar to Terminator II &#133; Gabriel's resurrection looked somewhat like the teleportation of a futuristic cyborg and the Eden location, where the final battle takes place, looks very similar to the steel factory where Terminator II ended as well. Coincidence, I guess? Overall, this is an inferior and passable sequel but still worth checking out in case you're a fan of Christopher Walken's unique acting charisma (and who isn't?). "},{"Title":"A great follow up","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I like The Prophecy, it's a great and unique movie and the sequel The Prophecy II is a great follow up. Chirstopher Walken does another great performance as Gabriel, he's such a talented actor and this role is one of the best roles he's done. The plot sees a women named Valerie who works as a nurse suddenly have a man crash land on her car, in the hospital she wants to make it up with him so after walking her home he sleeps with her meanwhile Gabriel is released from hell by Lucifer, he then goes to find Valerie who could stop the war with her child. Gabriel finds two teens who commit suicide by crashing their car so he resurrects the girl named Izzy who can help him find her, soon Gabriel discovers where she is and goes to kill her but suddenly Danyeal shows up and holds him off but Gabriel overpowers Danyeal and impales him then goes after her, Danyael then gets up and tries to find her. Soon Danyael finds Valerie and takes her to the church where he shows her his true form. While he searches for Thomas's note book Gabriel shows up and tries to kill her but the police arrive and shoot him, Danyael quickly leaves with Valaerie.In the police station Gabriel wakes up and takes Izzy from the interrogation room, Danyeal and Valreie must go to Eden where she will be protected by the Angel Michael but Gabriel arrives there and is let in so Valerie must be strong or Gabriel will kill her and the war will continue.The Prophecy II is a great sequel to the 1995 classic. Check it out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most god-awful movies ever","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'll make this short and sweet....this movie sucked!!!!!!I watched part 1 earlier today and thought it was one of the greatest films ever, gave it 9 out of 10 stars. So I thought perhaps part 2 and 3 would be good sequels, I was wrong. This movie bored me to death and was so different from the first one, it had the plot continue and thats it. It was like bad outtakes from part one or something.I love Walken, but I felt sorry for him here. I was so happy about Glenn Danzig being in this film, but don't blink you'll miss him. There was a full cast full of crappy actors and people I don't like such as Eric Roberts and Jennifer Beals. However, it was a breath of fresh air to see Ethan Embry, he's one of the funniest people on earth.This movie will make you like the first one a little less, so don't watch it because you feel you owe it to yourself, being a fan of part 1. I am gonna wait a few days before I watch part 3 and I pray it is better than this crap.The last scene of the movie with the lightning was one of the most beautiful things ever shown on film. Fast forward or skip to that if you can't stomach the first part.1 out of 10 stars - this was awful! "},{"Title":"Where was Lucifer?","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'll give a short review and a suggestion, the film is mediocre at best and the storyline was somewhat confusing compared to the first where Lucifer explained what was happening at the end of the film. Viggo Mortensen was hypnotically scary in the first film even though his scenes were only a small part in the film it was essential to the story for it to make sense. The Prophecy series needed a more expanded characterization of Lucifer they should've brought back Viggo Mortensen, made him the central character, wrote better scripts and had a bigger budget because it's such an interesting premise but it's too late now they have ruined what could have potentially been a great sequel of films. "},{"Title":"Good sequel, but storyline changes disappoint.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers?I was disappointed that Thomas was turned into ash.  After the good fight in the first movie he's destroyed in the second.  Doesn't seem logical But I still enjoyed #2.  I didn't find it any better than the first.  Nor did I find it any worse than the first.  It's definately a B movie.  But it's a fun B movie.  Christopher Walken does not disappoint. Must see for Walken fans.  Not really a horror film.  But indeed fun to watch.   It was also nice to see Russell Wong again.  (from Vanishing Son fame)6/10Quality 6/10 Entertainment 9/10 Replayble 6/10   (also depends on what they do in #3) "},{"Title":"Check Your Brain at the Door","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first film was pretty good and creeping but then they got all big headed and came up with a few sequels that damage the original.  There are some decent moments of horror in here but it all dies in the final moments of the film.  If you can rent this cheap, go ahead, but I wouldn't pay above $1.00 for this. "}{"Title":"Worth a few bucks to rent. Don't buy though.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of the original Prophecy movie which had a story, character (with development)  and good pacing. Practically everything that this movie lacked. There was no character  development for any of them except a tiny bit for Gabriel so it was pretty much like Here's  Valerie but that's all you need to know of her. Oh, Valerie's pregnant now. Watch Valerie run.  Valerie's alive. The end. Not to mention that Jennifer Beals (who I actually liked in  Flashdance) didn't give much more perfomance than a piece of cardboard. The pacing of the  movie is too fast and you feel like you just watched a half-hour sitcom when it's over. The only  good parts are those with Gabriel and Izzy as the actors both give good performances. "},{"Title":"See the first and third.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I like this one but it was a little tedious at times. The scenes between Christopher Walken and Brittany Murphy are worth it though. Also all of Christopher Walken's quips and gestures manages to make it entertaining and I would recommended just for those scenes.I'd give it 4.5/10 stars. See the first and the third. "},{"Title":"Not bad... not bad at all...","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was a big fan of the first movie; intrigued by the twists in the plot and how much the writers stuck to the facts about angels.  (For instance, when Gabriel (Walken) is passing around his horn and the kids take turns with it, resulting in blowing out the windows.) Little characteristics such as these made the movie that much more pleasant for me.  Usually, doing research on a movie after the fact and finding out that characters are made up are usually a let down.  This is not the case, which kind of adds a realistic quality to it.What made Prophesy II so much more interesting is that the writers introduced the other arch-angels, and a surprising Michael played by Eric Roberts.  The other angels depicted in the movie do exist according to references on angels, and the fact that the writers took this much time to make it accurate was so pleasing.The movie is essentially well-cast, the plot and movie much darker than the original, but overall quite a show.  I recommend this to anyone interested in metaphysics, Christopher Walken, and anyone who loves movies that make them think. "},{"Title":"Feel good movie without too much sense","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie just because I've liked Christopher Walken's acting in Blast from the past. Its a movie where you really wonder who damned who has such idiotic script ideas. But the acting is very good.I especially liked the wonderful angel Michael by Eric Roberts; he really made you feel the kindness and peace of an angel of god. I also liked Brittany Murphy's acting very much; her suicidal girl looked simply irresistible. Christopher Walken was not as good as in Blast from the past, but thats because he had not the right role to be brilliant.If you forget about the crazy script ideas, you really can enjoy this movie, also because the dialogs are often really cool How many more worlds do you want to destroy, Gabriel? Gabriel Only this one. Pause. Gabriel I'm not greedy.  "},{"Title":"A piece of art","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very unusual like. It doesn't carry the cliche that all sequels do. Prophecy 2 is actually better then it's first movie. Because here, Christopher Walken has a much more important role then the first. I'll admit I have a liking for the character, and in this movie, he once again shows his deep acting side to be unmatched. This movie is his best yet, aside from the videogame project Ripper. Much good acting here. This movie does have a more dark atmosphere then the first, and the movie also has some nice spicy humour on the side both of which it benifits from.Be advised See the first movie, or you won't understand quack. The first one is good too, but this second one is even better.  "},{"Title":"danzig fans beware","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK so the first one was OK, this one went almost straight to video.  I rented it because of one main factor - not walken, not jennifer maniac beals, but Glenn Danzig.  I had heard in advance that the man was to make his acting debut in this flick.  Unfortunately, despite a high billing, Danzig was virtually edited out of the film.  I'm not saying Misfits/Samhain/Danzig fans shouldn't see it, just don't get your hopes up and make sure the remote is handy with the rewind and pause buttons functional.  I don't think anyone will be writing songs about The Prophesy II.  "},{"Title":"Horrible, and I liked the first one!!!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Where is it written that sequels must suck?  Scream 2 didn't!  Others didn't!  But this one sure did... problems include horrible actors (only Christopher Walken could act in the entire film), bad writing (you will never understand what's going on and I even have done research on the idea of Nephilim before), and just horrible choices for casting.  Eric Roberts makes the stupidest Archangel Michael that I have ever seen in my life!Avoid it like the plague unless you are desperate to see Christopher Walken. In that case just fast-forward to the parts where he is in the film, and avoid the others.Yech!!! "},{"Title":"Not too bad.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Prophecy II is set in Los Angeles & starts as nurse Valerie Rosales (Jennifer Beals) runs over a young man named Danyael (Russell Wong), taking him to hospital she makes sure he's OK. Valerie visits Danyael again & they fall for each other, before you know it they are in bed together & have sex which Valerie quickly learns has left her pregnant. If that wasn't bad enough an evil archangel Gabriel (Christophere Walken) is out to kill her since Danyael was in fact an angel & their child will unite heaven as told in a prophecy which the evil Daniel doesn't want because he wants to rule heaven himself & destroy Earth in the process. Valerie must stay alive long enough to raise her child or both heaven & Earth will be destroyed, now that's pressure...Co-written & directed by Greg Spence I thought The Prophecy II was a decent time waster but nothing particularly special. The script by Spence & associate producer Matt Greenberg is fairly exposition heavy & has some interesting ideas but it's a bit slow even at less than 90 minutes & is sometimes a little hard to follow. I admit that I have never seen the original The Prophecy (1995) & as such I didn't have a clue what was going on for the first half of this film, this is a sequel where it is advisable that you have seen the original because if your anything like me you'll spend the first half wondering who everyone is what the hell's going on, I mean there's an early scene where some guy in a long coat touches the ground of some parking lot & then cracks in the ground open & Christopher Walken's character emerges & I sat there & thought to myself 'what just happened there & who was that guy?' neither of which are satisfactorily explained. There are various religious ideas & themes with horror & supernatural overtones & elements here as one would expect in a film about angels & while they are OK they never really engage or interest that much & are fairly forgettable. I liked the notion that an angel didn't know how to drive or what a computer is with Christopher Walken not even knowing how to use a gun. If you like religious themed horror them you'll almost certainly like The Prophecy II but if you don't then, like me, it may not do too much for you.Director Spence does a good job & the film has a great sense of style, there's some nice colour schemes going on as well. There are a few eerie moments but I wouldn't say it's particularly scary, it does have a nice atmosphere though. There's not much gore on show, there are a couple of ripped out hearts, a few impalings & a messed up body on an autopsy table. Some of it's a bit silly, I mean I don't know how Valerie survives falling off the top of that building, Gabriel's body wouldn't have been enough to break the fall & even if it was why wasn't she impaled on the spike along with him? By the way if your interested the IMDb has spelt Danyael's name wrong in their 'Plot Outline' on the main page...Going straight-to-video this probably had a decent budget & it show's, it's well made & pretty stylish with it. The special effects are good & the acting is alright with Christopher Walken stealing every scene he's in, the guy is just a great actor.The Prophecy II is an alright religious themed supernatural horror thriller, it's worth a watch but it's nothing special. This was enough of a success to spawn three further sequels, The prophecy 3 The Ascent (2000), The Prophecy Uprising (2005) & The Prophecy Forsaken (2005). "},{"Title":"Stellar bits in an iffy movie","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'd watched The Prophecy and enjoyed it immensely so I figured I'd rent the sequel.  I wanted to find out how they could bring back Christopher Walken as his character had been defeated in the first film.  Most of the plot of this film, I could have lived without and yet I would still recommend seeing it.  You've got a remote so you can fast forward through the boring bits of plot.  The parts you want to see are those featuring Christopher Walken as Gabriel and, as usual, Gabriel's helper.  There are some great lines for both of these characters.  I won't spoil it for you, but you really will enjoy the ending of this movie.  I thought it was a brilliant idea. "},{"Title":"Dark, thrilling, seductive","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I must begin my say by coming with a NOTICE You are not going to understand much on the movie, if you haven't seen the movie. Because Prophecy 2 is very connected to The Prophecy. So if you want to fully understand my review of The Prophecy 2, please see the first movie first.Prophecy 2, really isn't a one time only movie. The story is complicated. Much more complex then the first movie where you don't have to think about whats going on, at all. But since the movie is like this, it leaves for much artistic freedom. A better score, the use of symbolism, and some scenes that are so good without any of the actors even saying a word. Brilliant.Many of the scenes here have the actors silent. Facial expression, beautiful music, and powerful scenes makes this movie a winner. Christopher Walken is much more important in this movie then the last. The whole story evolves around him somehow, and I must say, the use of Christopher works well. His dark emotional performances in earlier projects fits well in The Prophecy 2. Here, he too is given artistic freedom, and he delivers. He really delivers.  "}{"Title":"accuracy","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Actually, although a lot of what was in the Prophecy II isn't in the canonical bible, the angelology of it was in fact right on. I've done mounds and mounds of research on the subject of angels. And what was written in the Book of Enoch as well as in much of the medieval angel speculation is accurate. And it is a film, let's remember. It's an interesting twist on the perception of heaven. I don't know if I'd call is laughable on second guesses when you actually look at the derivations of the research instead of relying solely on the Bible. If you're really interested, you can look at the non-canonical scripture that was accepted in the times of early Christianity on reluctant-messenger.com I don't know, sometimes I get frustrated thinking that people who think the Bible, although the primary text is the ONLY text of the religion.Just a thought. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel for what it is....part of a bigger picture.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Prophecy 2 continues the story of the angel Gabriel(Christopher Walken)and his jealousness of humans.Number one is better....BUT number two dives into more of the story. It's the same as Star Wars to an extent. It's part of a bigger story. Number two progresses the story And raises some new questions to dive into. I would like to recommend you watch Prophecy 1 before you watch number Prophecy two. Just so you can understand the story better. "},{"Title":"decent sequel and on par with the original","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  decent sequel and on par with the original has some bizarre love making scenes it's also pretty creepy and intense  but the dialog is off at times and the pacing isn't great at times still this is a watchable sequel and engaging at times it also has a cool finale.the acting is very good Christopher Walken is amazing and steals the show with his evil creepy performance Jennifer Beals is very pretty and gives a decent performance however she felt off at times Russel Wong gives a good performance here Brittany Murphy in my opinion is underrated and gives a very good performance here i love this gal Eric Roberts is good here as Michael although not on screen very much there is also a cameo by Bruce Abbot overall this was a watchable sequel that is worth watching and buying if you get it cheap **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"This should be fodder for Mystery Science Theatre","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is, by far, one of the worst movies I have ever had the misfortune of watching. The acting, the special effects, the violence, all contrived and utterly unbelievable.  The makeup was atrocious, and the script was hellacious.  I love Christopher Walken, but he was really miscast in this role; he is far too matter-of-fact to play such a malevolent entity. Dreck! "},{"Title":"Christopher Walken kicks ass","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yeah, this film was pretty cool.Like the first one, I didn't understand most of it, but Christopher Walken's performance - on par with that from the first Prophecy - was just effortlessly fantastic! Gabriel acts the same as he did in the first, and what we got here (is a little game of show and tell..) is the same guy with a little more violence and some more funny lines. Gabriel owns any scene he's in, he's the villain we all root for and he's still scary as hell. That's the stuff Chris! The Prophecy II takes the same structure as the first, and it takes a good while before we see much of Gabriel at all - but when we do, the film comes alive. Our beloved angel takes quite a beating this time, such as a stabbing through the chest, being destroyed by police bullets, falling from a skyscraper building and being whacked in the face with an axe.Russel Wong is the other title star - he's pretty cool but a bit boring. Jennifer Beals is okay, as is Eric Roberts as Michael. But Brittany Murphy as the suicidal teenager Izzy is cool, a teenage girl sick of living who just wants to join her lover in the sky. How sweet...It's got great effects and a high budget for a straight to video flick... it's weird that with Walken as its star it didn't get a cinema release! But whatever...Rent it if you liked the first, it's cool. "}]