[{"Title":"This is Perfection","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before I saw this movie a few years ago, I had never heard of Robert E Howard. Since then, I've educated myself on who Robert E Howard was...and who Novalynn was. He was extraordinary and she drank him up. It's incredible that someone took her book and made a movie out of the story. Even more incredible is how perfectly it was all orchestrated. The characters were fantastic (Especially Vincent DiOnofrio). The script was great, the filmwork was beautiful, the timing was right on. I will never grow tired of this movie. And I'll continue to turn it onto whoever comes over to my house and hasn't seen it yet. The Whole Wide World is a masterpiece! "},{"Title":"A little giant among films","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an easy vote. A real, well acted old time story of star crossed loves. Cutting edge acting by Vincent D'Onofrio as Robert and his girl Rene Z. An emotional, tender, and heartbreaking story. Both actors pull out your emotions and put them through the wringer. Beautifully filmed and the music fits the mood. Vincent was perfect. His intense face, which he uses as an emotional barometer, captures and relays the tortures Robert E Howard experienced. It is how films used to be - memorable. This was Rene Z's first serious work, and I will say she has never come close again in touch the emotional triggers although she is big box office. Her thanks to Vincent on receiving her first Academy awards speaks volumes  Thank you Vincent for teaching me how to work. They were a lovely team together with a special bond both actors created together. I did not want to leave the characters and return to reality. In closing, this little movie budget wise and distribution wise, is actually a far greater achievement then it's modest budget could foresee. This film should have been dubbed as one of the greats instead of shelved and forgotten. "},{"Title":"Painful to Watch...","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"35 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a good film, but it's absolutely painful to watch, as you repeatedly wish they'd put aside their insecurities and get together.  The best screen kiss in recent memory is in this film and it gives you a taste of the power they would've had if they would've always stayed together, instead of straying alone.  One of the most emotionally abusive films of the last year, it's more of a realistic romance instead of the perfect one featured in films such as You've Got Mail.  This and many other films serve as a reminder that most great romances are not without torturous actions from both halves. "},{"Title":"A hidden gem","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this movie while searching through a reduced DVD bin. But once I saw Vincent D'onofrio in the lead I knew I would not be disappointed; and of course I wasn't.He is one of the most talented and underrated actors gracing the indie screen today. Although he has had several big budget roles (MIB-The Cell to name a couple) he is a character actor and does extremely well with character driven films. I'd never heard of Robert E. Howard until I watched the WWW and I couldn't think of a better person to introduce him to me than Mr. D'onofrio. The way he portrays his tortured existence and his need for companionship and acceptance was done with such brilliance and conviction, you can really appreciate how much Bob Howard lived inside his own head and yet longed to be part of the world around him.Renee Zellweger also turned in a notable performance as Novaline Price. She skillfully portrayed the love, hope and irritation she often had for Bob. Together D'onofrio and Zellwegger not only showed the pain of unrequited love, but the richness of friendship.I recommend this film to anyone looking for great acting, wonderful cinematography and a delightful score. Curl up, turn the lights down, and enjoy. I promise the characters will stay with you long after the final credits. "},{"Title":"Best Little Movie in the Whole Wide World","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was thrilled to read the (almost) unanimous praise for this FANTASTIC little movie by fellow viewers, and I must chime in with my wholehearted agreement. Every once in a while you blunder across an under-financed and straight-to-video movie that just absolutely flattens you with that rare convergence of talent, story & production, and you're reminded anew of just how powerful a film can be.Most of the previous postings give a good outline of the plot, so I won't recap it here. The Whole Wide World is remarkable in all sorts of ways, but I must use my space here to further celebrate the masterful acting of the leads, Vincent D'Onfrio (as Bob Howard) and Renee (as Novalyne Price). Indeed, the skill of the portrayals completely conveys the sense of time, place and emotional temperament necessary to draw us into their worlds--and break our hearts. And yeah, you're just absolutely made of stone if you're not weeping just a little as the credits roll(or trying hard not to). It's testament to D'Onfrio's amazing talent that we can clearly see Bob's misanthropic shortcomings, but still we hope this tragic misfit of a guy can (as another fan wrote here)meet her half way. A DEEP, insightful performance by Vincent who has quietly been doing the same in lesser roles for decades now.And I gotta give Renee her full due as well. She was EXCELLENT, fully credible, spiky, tender, flirtatious, frustrated, and ultimately emotionally exhausted trying to figure out this neurotic but strangely charming man she tried to get close to. Seeing this movie reminds me of Casablanca in the sense that you can't imagine anyone else in the Bogart & Bergman roles; no doubt other actors would have given their all, but I can't see how anyone other than Vincent & Renee could have spiked our hearts so fiercely.Who would have ever thought that such a GREAT movie could be made of the abortive love life of Robert E. Howard? Of course that's not really what makes the movie great--as Flaubert said when asked to identify Madame Bovary, he replied I am; and so it is with The Whole Wide World, where we are poignantly reminded of our own failures to engage with life and love in the ways we believe they should play out.Again, I'm THRILLED to see how many other fans recognize the unique quality of this movie. I encountered it obliquely, noting its synopsis in the New Yorker back in '96 and thinking what a curious thing to base a movie on. For some reason my sister tracked it down and loaned me a dubbed-from-TV video cassette; crummy video and sound, but the movie still BLEW ME AWAY (and it still does--thankfully it's now available on DVD). Given Renee's star power I don't think it will ever vanish completely, but we can only hope others will take a chance on this little masterpiece so it can one day receive the acclaim its excellence deserves.I'd also be remiss if I didn't put in a small plug here for Robert E. Howard the pulp fictioneer; it wasn't complete hyperbole for Novalyne to dub him the best pulp fiction writer... His writing stands up well today; plenty of brawny page-turning adventure that still delivers fabulous escapist thrills for guys. But if some of us guys can watch this movie and worship it, I'd bet at least a few of the girls can read some Robert E. Howard today and get a sense of the tough-but-hurting guy depicted in the movie. But one certainly need not read Howard to appreciate this amazing movie on its own stellar merits. "},{"Title":"A gem of a Movie based upon a Great and Original Book.","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A wonderful romantic movie and obviously a labor of love for all concerned in its production. One Who Walked Alone as a miraculously excellent memoir, written by Novaline Price-Ellis decades after the events portrayed, based upon notes she had written at the time. The interplay between Novaline and Robert is mostly conversations when he takes her for a drive and shoots off his mouth. Here's the greatest action writer in history, with worldwide fans, living with his mother in a town where nobody sees him as either hero or star, just a big over-sized hunk who lives with his folks. Vincent d'Ofrino is ALWAYS a joy to watch and Rene Zellwiger can always be depended upon for a solid performance. As for sex appeal, Rene is definitely not a plump or fat Brigit Jones but rather she's slender, lithe, and not heavy enough to hold down a job as a paperweight. In other words, just what this 6'4 hunk goes after --- every time. But aside from that, Whole Wide World is the kind of great movie you'll never forget. Search for it in VHS or DVD and go to a specialty store if need be. "},{"Title":"Amazing, Must-See Movie","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" If there was only 1 movie ever, I would suggest anyone to watch, this would be the movie that I would suggest. I came across it on Netflix, DVD rentals, and rented it because the storyline seemed interesting, and I like Renee. I had never heard of this movie, and at the time it came out in 1996, I was working too many hours to even know what was in the movie theaters. Vincent D'Onofrio is more than amazing in this role, and should have been nominated and won the Oscar for this part. For me, his portrayal of his character in this movie is the best I have ever seen any actor do. Vincent's portrayal brings out Renee's character beautifully; how could she not act like she did, working against such an amazing actor. This screenplay is beautifully written, from Novalyne Price-Ellis's true book she wrote herself, covering her relationship with Robert E. Howard. I had no idea who he was, but after this movie, have read up on his life, and will purchase Novalyne's book, One Who Walked ALone, from which this movie was taken. Great directing, screenplay, photography, acting, music; a movie that could not have been put together any more beautifully. BRAVO to all, thank you for one of the best movie experiences I have had, at the age of 48. Shame on whomever did not spend the money to distribute and advertise the heck out of this movie when it came out in 1996. I will purchase the DVD, and will buy it for gifts for many, but wish they had put more in the special features, than only Renee's chat. Why not all of the deleted scenes, the making of, etc...Janet, NYC, Feb 2007 "},{"Title":"Movie's Heart is as big as the Whole Wide World","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw online that this movie would be on TV and, since I love Renee Zellweger, I decided to give it a try. What I found was a rare movie that combines a tragic yet realistic romance with over-the-top performances that make the movie worth watching. For some it might get off to a slow start, but stay with it if you're the least bit interested. I made the mistake of playing around on the computer the first time I watched it, and I missed a lot. This movie deserves your full attention.Based on the memoir by Novalyn Price about her relationship with pulp writer Bob Howard, the film does an excellent job of showing the on-and-off romance between grade-school teacher Novalyn and full-time writer Bob from both sides. Novalyn truly likes Bob, even loves him at one point, but Bob rides her off, saying he can't be tied down. But once Novalyn starts dating Truett Benson, Bob's friend, Bob suddenly realizes what a special person Novalyn is and that he can't live without her. He tries several attempts to win her back, but all end either in tears or a fight. Every time Novalyn tries to give him a second chance to prove he loves her, he goes and spends all his time caring for his sick mother, not leaving her for a second. I know you're saying, What's wrong with that? It just means he loved his mama. But as Novalyn points out, Bob is a grown man who should be leading his own life and being able to let go of his mother and get out once in awhile.While most movies like these just go on and on about how one person can't live without the other, this one has you wondering if the two will really end up together. And unlike most romances where you're waiting for them to unlock lips, Wide World takes many twists and turns in the romance department;you may think you know what's going to happen, but you really don't unless you already know the complete full story of Howard's life.The performances by the two leads alone make the movie worth watching;anyone who appreciates good acting should definitely check this one out. Vincent D'Nofrio is amazing, in a performance that would make the real Bob Howard proud I'm sure. He was really overlooked and should have gotten way more recognition for this role. If his other movies are as good as this, it's really sad he doesn't have a more well-known career. There is some justice in the world though, because Renee Zellweger has gone on to become a major star after this part, as she should have. She has a warmth and sincerity that comes across in her acting and makes you root for her the whole time. You often forget she's acting because her delivery is so natural, and she has several emotional scenes to show her depth. I;m a big fan of hers, and this movie didn't disappoint. It's too bad this movie didn't get more recognition, but do yourself a favor and catch it the next time it's on TV. You won't be sorry.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful love story","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually I treat love stories with a thinly veiled contempt. Call me cynical, but most are contrived, sappy, and predictable. The Whole Wide World is anything but, and like most stories that break your heart, it's a true one - not something created by the overactive imagination of a Hollywood exec.The basic story based on the memoirs of Novalyne Price, The Whole Wide World is her recollection of the relationship she had with Conan creator and pulp fiction writer, Robert E. Howard, before his tragic suicide. The time period is 1930's and the place is small town Texas. Novalyne is a school teacher who wishes to be a published writer, and Howard is already established as a pulp fiction maverick. Both are in their late 20's.The performances in this film are outstanding. Vincent D'Onofrio practically leaps off of the screen. His character is infuriating, heartbreaking, yet so fragile. Renee Zellweger filmed this movie just before she got the call to appear in Jerry Macguire, and she shines as Novalyne Price. Price was a smart, witty, and stubborn lady - in a time when such things were not considered very ladylike. Novalyne and Robert were introduced by a mutual acquaintance, and thus began their disjointed and devoted friendship.There was obviously so much love between them, but circumstances, Howard's mental illness, and his unreasonable devotion to his mother prevented the ir relationship from ever reaching it's potential. The film shows their ups and downs and the connection they had between them. It's a tragic, very real human story and more than worth two hours of your time. Just make sure you have a tissue ready because it is a tear jerker. It never lowers itself to petty sentimentality though. The Whole Wide World will touch you via pure emotional story telling - kudos to the writer who adapted Price's novel.It's criminal that the DVD and video are not available in the United States! Various cable channels are playing it regularly, and the DVD is available in Canada. Try to catch it if you can! "},{"Title":"Incredibly beautiful and moving film","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to admit up front, I originally sought this movie out because I'm a dedicated fan of the enigmatic pulp genius Robert E. Howard, who ended his prolific career by a self-inflicted gunshot to the head in 1936. This movie is based on the memoirs of a woman he was involved with named Novalyn Price. So again to be up front, this movie is very pleasing to me as a fan of Bob Howard. It reveals some of the negative aspects of this man (although skimming clear of his extreme racist views, which to be fair he tended to show more in his writing than in his personal behavior) but also shows us a lot of his heart and the beauty of his writer's soul that always found such tortured expression in the famous Conan and Solomon Kane stories. But I think the movie is going to be just as pleasing to those who are not fans of Howard's writing -- perhaps even more so, because this isn't really a movie just about a writer, it's about a relationship between two writers. And it's a messy, very realistic relationship at that.This was a very early film for Renee Zellweger, and I was impressed right away with the ability she shows here in this film. None of her subsequent and often acclaimed performances have matched what she did here, opposite the great character actor Vincent D'Onofrio who brings Howard himself to vivid life. The movie is all about these 2 people -- there are no action scenes, there is no real drama except a manufactured drama that Bob Howard creates to compensate for his inadequacy and lack of resolve. There are many powerful scenes where these 2 people are consumed in an atmosphere of natural beauty, which suggests the world of imagination inside these writers -- Novalyn says from the hillside you can see the whole wide world from up here and Howard says other worlds, too. Always the sense of what Bob Howard's imaginary world could look like is bubbling beneath the surface of what we see -- never do the film-makers stoop to any actual visualization of the fantasy universe, but sound effects and music are effectively used to create that sense of his dangerous and exotic fantasy world, while at the same time there is an emptiness around Novalyn's literary aspirations which contrasts with it. There are always two stories battling here -- a love story between two human beings and a sort of journey in stasis between two writers.There's no way to put into precise words just how incredible I think D'Onofrio's performance is here. Again, as a longtime fan of Bob Howard, I can say that the performance matches my image of him down to the smallest physical mannerisms. As a treat for fans we even get to see Bob in his late phase when he wore a sombrero and liked to walk the streets of El Paso disguised as a Mexican. All of Bob's paranoia and his contradictions are on display, and even more fascinating when put into the light of day by dramatic action -- he was a man whose ego demanded absolute self-sufficiency, but who had such deep emotional ties to his small circle of family and friends that he was unable to cope with any kind of loss in his life. The manufactured drama when Bob finds out that Novalyn is dating his friend Truett is just one of the more harmless examples of this, but Novalyn's perspective as expressed in the film enables us to see how deeply Bob Howard's behavior must have hurt and alienated the very people he needed and trusted so deeply. The pain and confusion are brilliantly expressed in Zellweger's performance, and there are also a pair of excellent supporting performances from Ann Wedgeworth and Harve Presnell as the Howard parents.This is a beautiful film, this is a film that has a world of emotion while having absolutely no stylized or melodramatic plot devices to push us one way or the other in our feelings -- it just unfolds at the pace of its story and draws us in to the lives of 2 people in a particular place and time. They are people who don't seem to fit -- a big awkward hulk of a fantasy writer whose hard working Texan neighbors think he's a sissy, and a headstrong woman trying to make a career for herself in the same conservative universe. But through the eye of this cinematic gem, they both seem to belong in this time and place and we feel as if they left a bit of their hearts behind in their writings so that we could discover it with them. "}{"Title":"Definitely a Keeper!","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love listening to the audio commentaries after I've watched a film. It shows me how much the actors or crew members felt making the film. There is a big difference between a film and a movie. A film holds you to your seat because of the quality of the writing and acting. A movie is usually exciting, but it may or may not have persons who can or cannot act in it's line-up. I consider The Whole Wide World in the former category. I can't say enough about this film.The story is simple enough. Vincent D'Onofrio plays Robert E. Howard, arguably the greatest pulp magazine writer of all time. He is the creator of the Conan series of magazine and movie fame. Howard falls in love with Novalyn Price, a woman who wants to be an author, but has no talent. She is played by Renn' Zellweger, who brings fire to this mousey character. Price realizes her destiny lays in teaching and pursues that course in her life. Zellweger's performance is exceptional as her 5'5 frame faces down the 6'4 frame of D'Onofrio.D'Onofrio's performance in this film is beyond exceptional. He kept me emotionally attached to the character of Howard through out the film. I cried at the end.As one of the producers of this film, D'Onofrio was able to keep the film on track. But something tells me that he believed so much in the film that he took on the problems himself and protected the project. I loved the Greyhound bus, by the way. It was one of his additions.This film was Dan Ireland's first major film and he did exceptionally well. He knew the caliber of actors he was working with and let them do their job. The actors also let him do his job as well. Surprisingly in the commentary I could tell that he watched his stars and learned from them Like I said, I can't say enough about this film. I rented it from Netflix and have watched it several times. It is definitely a keeper and my order on Amazon is already in the works. "},{"Title":"Novalyne's point of view...","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" All the praise for this movie in the other comments here should be taken as read. This is one of my favourite films, for many many reasons.It should be noted that the story is very much from Novalyne Price's viewpoint, which explains the movie-of-the-week feel that sometimes arises. If this movie had been shot from Howard's point of view, we can be pretty sure it would have been a lot darker, more lurid and more violent! The way the film supports Novalyne's opinions rather than Howard's is, I guess, in keeping with the story, i.e. romance foundering on Novalyne's inability to accept Howard for who he is, flaws and all. (Am I the only one who thought Novalyne was heartless to insist Howard stop caring for his dying mother?) It's an age-old story the pain of romance made impossible by differing interests and natures. "},{"Title":"fascinating film with top performances","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film covers themes of how people are creative and, also, how love can fade - the demands the odd writer makes on the more conventional school teacher who is intrigued by him are too great for her, although she tries - it is her own wish to be a writer that leads her to him shamelessly - and it is mixed in with her dream of who she might be. d'Onofrio turns in a convincing performance - and despite the oddness of the writer he portrays, we are charmed by him - no mean feat. and i think Renee Zelwenger gives one of the best performances i've seen from her - without that cutesy stuff she does aimed at seducing men. it is as good as she was in Cold Mountain. This is not a big screen film,however, and yet it is powerful for all that. "},{"Title":"Most Underrated Film of the Last 20 Years, at least","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film at the theater - with, I think five other people. I was the only male human in the crowd, the rest were middle-aged women, no doubt chick flick fans. Not what I expected... I had assumed that I'd have to carve a path through the Corsairs before claiming my seat! The smell of death was all around, the floor slippery with the blood of those slain in battle...Oops, got ahead of myself. I'm a big fan of Robert E. Howard's work, especially Conan (though Solomon Kane is a great character as well). His personal weirdness is well-documented, etc., etc. The film pulls no punches about it at all...This is a film for writers - especially new writers who need to learn the history of American heroic fiction - because the Weird Tales days represented the pinnacle of that genre. It's also a film for high school English teachers; I'd make it mandatory. The reason is that REH's contributions to the body of American literature is genuinely important. Without his successes (he made money off his writing), I suspect August Derleth wouldn't have been as successful at publishing and thus Ray Bradbury wouldn't have been as successful as he is.Everyone watch this film, study this film, seek out Robert E. Howard's books. If you are unfamiliar with the GREAT writing Howard, Lovecraft, Clark Ashton Smith, et al, this film will introduce the early 1930's pulp writer's world to you...As Robert E. Howard, Vince D'Onfrio gives what I think is his absolute best performance. What he's doing in Law & Order CI, or whatever supporting roles he gets (MIB, etc.), and his future roles, are never going to be this good. In fact, a lot of them aren't worth bothering with at all (e.g., The Cell).It's also the only movie with Renee Zellweger worth watching (OK, Jerry Maguire's good). Yeah, hers is the main character, but she's perfectly cast, rather than (hey, I'm entitled to my opinion) the astonishingly successful mis-casting her as a vamp in anything...MINOR SPOILERS Best scene we see Robert E. Howard typing out a story - and he's yelling out the action at the typewriter.Disappointment H.P. Lovecraft is mentioned in one scene, but I wish they had another scene regarding the letter-writing relationship between HPL and REH, among others.I wrote to L. Sprague De Camp (who was alive in 1996) about this film (De Camp owned the rights to all things REH and is responsible for REH's being hoisted out of obscurity 40 or so years ago) and about Kull (ugh) - another REH-created film. He sent me back an autographed picture! "},{"Title":"The Whole Wide World ... Should See This Movie","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Set in 1930's small town Texas are two unlikely characters one who is an accomplished writer and one who wants to be. Their journey is a rare story these days (writing this in 2009) in writing or on the screen. Not since watching 84 Charring Cross Road have I applauded such realism. Bob Howard, famed author of Conan the Barbarian is seen as he was in real life through the eyes of an unusually brave woman, Novalyne Price (the story taken directly from her book One Who Walked Alone).Howard (played by Vincent D'Onofrio) was a real loner who found himself in love; an impossible situation for any recluse, let alone a perhaps misunderstood misanthropic one. Price (played by Rene Zellweger), carries the other hard end of the bargain, a sociable yet independent single woman in 1930's Texas who's burden of loving him is even more unimaginable to bear, but not in any of the trite ways one might think. Most of us cower from those who do not behave as society dictates, or to be more blunt, as our loved ones dictate; Price does and doesn't, in a classy yet grounded blend of grace. Both characters are surprising and totally human. Shot in only 24 days, this little movie is a buy-to-own keeper. No wonder Zellweger went on to movie stardom after this role.To quote Rene, her performance is in part Many thanks to Vincent. An amazing portrait of the best of both actor's range of talent. Recommended highly. "},{"Title":"One of a kind.","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I originally purchased this film on DVD because I'm a fan of Vincent D'Onofrio. The only thing I knew about the story was from the short synopsis in the DVD listing. Little did I know that I was going to have the most profound film experience of my life. It's a heartbreakingly beautiful story told in such a vivid yet subtle way. The cinematography is gorgeous. The acting is brilliant. If this film had gotten the attention it truly deserves when it was made, there's no doubt in my mind that it would have taken Best Actor, Best Actress, and Best Picture at the Academy Awards. I really wish I could have seen it on the big screen. Everyone should see this film. "},{"Title":"Great Movie and More News..","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hi, I think that this movie is awesome! I say that because Dan Ireland is my great uncle, hes my dads uncle! I also say that because, I've seen it and it is a wonderful movie and I think my uncle did a wonderful job on it. His other movies were wonderful too. He told me that he was working on another movie thats a comedy which should be wonderful to see! Uncle Dan will continue to make more movies and my father just told me about the preview he went to just a little while a go. This movie is so awesome! it was Renee Zellwegers first movie and ever since shes been a wonderful actress, everybody in this movie was awesome and i think my uncle did a wonderful job at directing. Well thank you for reading , Taylor Victoria Ireland. "},{"Title":"Good but repetitive","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Clearly from the comments previously posted about this film there is a fan-base out there for it, but one which this audience member finds surprising. There is more to 'The Whole Wide World' than most Hollywood romances, indeed it's refreshing to have a decent rom without the annoying com.The problem is the succession of arguments between the two lead characters becomes so repetitive that although this film runs for under two hours it repeats itself and eventually becomes quite boring.As pulp writing legend Robert Howard, the alternatively sexy Vincent D'Onofrio is on good form, allowed to exercise his unique ability to deliver bellowed diatribes, and Renée Zellweger performs well in the role of a meek-yet-spitfired-girl-next-door-teacher-type turned on by a brilliant outcast, a character which surely engages the bookish fantasies of the female audience this chick flick will most likely appeal to, as she becomes a heroine for ultimately tolerating Howard's volatile insecurities. Ain't that always the way, huh ladies? Taken from that characters true life memoirs the script is centred firmly on her experience of Howard which leaves the characters slightly one dimensional, and we actually learn very little about a potentially fascinating man, indeed we shouldn't think of this as being a film about Howard or whatever made him tick.Special mentions goes to the very last scene is a typically saccharine Hollywood ending, with obvious conclusions presumably reiterated to elicit tears.So what do we have? A watchable if repetitive and melodramatic romance that's slightly better than most Hollywood offerings. Nothing less, and, despite what some hyperbolic reviews say here, certainly nothing more. "},{"Title":"two good performances","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1933 Brownwood, Texas. Schoolteacher Novalyne Price (Renée Zellweger) is introduced to successful pulp writer Robert E. Howard (Vincent D'Onofrio). He's most famous for the sword and sorcery series 'Conan the Cimmerian'. She's struggling to get her stories published. He's a man outside of the conventional world living with his parents. They have an up and down relationship that ultimately ends when he kills himself after the death of his protective mother.These are two good performances of an interesting relationship. It's a little unconventional and restricted by the reality of his death. I also wonder if it's better to be a straight biopic of Robert. His life is the far more interesting one and there are possible avenues to explore. Their relationship never seems to go to the next level which his death cuts short. I would really like to see more of his relationship with his mother and his professional life. Nevertheless, this is an interesting relationship that is different from most movies. "},{"Title":"The Best","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was at Big Lots and they have movies for like 3 bucks there and I saw this movie. I absolutely love Vincent D'Onofrio, fell in love with him when I first watched Law & Order Criminal Intent. And I idolize Renee Zellweger, she is one of the few beautiful women in Hollywood who can actually act. I picked this movie up and I couldn't believe that both these people where in it. I got so excited and bought it on the spot. I watched a few days later and it was nothing I expected. It was beautiful, amazing. I wasn't surprised that I had never heard of it before, because people can't except a movie this deep, they can't except and enjoy something so different and deep. Unlike a lot of movies I love, I didn't fall in love with this movie, I grew into love. I gradually began to appreciate its uniqueness more and more the longer it went on. The end was heart wrenching, Zellweger's and D'Onofrio's performances were top notch. It also holds the best on-screen kiss I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Instead of watching another so-so movie, give this one a try. There's not a lot of action (no car chases, etc.), but it is an intelligent movie with good acting, good writing, and a story you probably never heard. I am not a Renee Zellweger fan but as this is one of her earlier films, she is watchable. She is very good as a small town teacher/writer wanna be. Vincent D'Onofrio is great in the lead. It is hard to believe he is a New Yorker as he becomes this troubled Texan. You will probably cry at least once while watching it. The DVD was actually cut, leaving out some not essential(?) portions that would have made the movie better. "},{"Title":"Worth the wait","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've been wanting to see this for some time and was glad I finally got a copy. I'm not a huge Robert E. Howard fan, but I do have some of his stories. I'm mainly interested in his correspondence with Lovecraft and Clark Ashton Smith. But, even if you have no idea who Howard was, this is still a good little film to check out.It takes place in Texas in the 1930's. A young schoolteacher and budding pulp writer Howard meet and then start dating, sort of. Other than the fact they both love writing, there isn't a whole lot in common between the two. But, they do have chemistry, and the movie has one of the best cinematic kisses I can recall. If you know anything about Howard, you know what will be in this movie. I don't want to ruin it for anyone, so I'll not discuss that. But, you do get a glimpse into the world of the man who created Conan(who has a new feature film sans Arnold in the near future) and Solomon Kane(who has a feature film on the cusp of release). Yes, Howard was unusual. Not crazy, but certainly sheltered and depressed, alone and living in his fantasy world.I can't recommend this enough for his fans, writers, etc. Hearing Howard discuss receiving a letter from HP Lovecraft almost made me have to change my drawers. I was so hoping Lovecraft would be in the film, even for 2 minutes, but you will be disappointed if you are looking for him. That is the only scene with anything about him and if you aren't paying attention, you'll miss it. I don't know how long it will take for Hollywood to get its act together to make a good Lovecraft biopic, God knows we need one and there is so much fertile ground in his life that it would trump even this film.Oddly enough, the film references Oliver Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield twice. I happen to be reading the book now, which I thought was an incredibly weird coincidence. I had to cover my ears so none of the plot would be given away, D'oh! Anyway, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Discover this little gem for yourself! Amazingly touching!","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" What can one say about such a little known gem of a film as this one? It is obviously a labor of love for all concerned. I was so surprised to find this film that I just had to see it ASAP. Anyone who is a fan of true love stories, or of the early days of the pulp fiction industry will be charmed to encounter this story of one of the greatest and most original talents in the history of popular literature Bob Howard.Today his name has lost much of its original luster. It's easy to write him off as just another odd-ball who killed himself and good-riddance. But when you stop to realize that the creator of the Conan saga was at the time of his suicide the most famous writer of pulp fiction in the world, you begin to realize the importance of this story. If Howard had survived his grief over his mother's terminal illness, he would undoubtedly be ranked with names such as J.R.R. Tolkien and Stephen King by this time. After all, he did single-handedly create the entire Sword & Sorcery genre!H.P. Lovecraft realized the greatness of Howard's talent from the beginning, and became his mentor. He even tried to help him overcome his perverse attachment to his mother and keep him from the deep depression that eventually led to his demise. But he lived in Rhode Island, and could only write Bob letters. If Novalyne Price had not been away at LSU at just that time, she may have been the one to pull him through his darkest hour, and who knows what the consequences might be today? Of course all such speculation is at last futile, and I intend no blame or unkindness toward Novalyne Price Ellis. What happened, happened for a reason only God knows. But I find it fascinating to think about.As a true love story it is one of the most unusual and interesting you will ever encounter. D'Onofrio is masterful as usual in juggling all the complexities of Howard's personality. Zellweger is perfect as the ever-conflicted Novalyne, who never knows whether to love Bob, admire him, abhor him, fear him, or hate him.It is telling indeed that this was Price Ellis' first and only book, written when she was a retired English teacher at the age of 76! Although she insisted that she never really loved Bob Howard, she usually did it with tears in her eyes, as witnesses will tell you. "},{"Title":"Discover this little gem for yourself! Amazingly touching!","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" What can one say about such a little known gem of a film as this one? It is obviously a labor of love for all concerned. I was so surprised to find this film that I just had to see it ASAP. Anyone who is a fan of true love stories, or of the early days of the pulp fiction industry will be charmed to encounter this story of one of the greatest and most original talents in the history of popular literature Bob Howard.Today his name has lost much of its original luster. It's easy to write him off as just another odd-ball who killed himself and good-riddance. But when you stop to realize that the creator of the Conan saga was at the time of his suicide the most famous writer of pulp fiction in the world, you begin to realize the importance of this story. If Howard had survived his grief over his mother's terminal illness, he would undoubtedly be ranked with names such as J.R.R. Tolkien and Stephen King by this time. After all, he did single-handedly create the entire Sword & Sorcery genre!H.P. Lovecraft realized the greatness of Howard's talent from the beginning, and became his mentor. He even tried to help him overcome his perverse attachment to his mother and keep him from the deep depression that eventually led to his demise. But he lived in Rhode Island, and could only write Bob letters. If Novalyne Price had not been away at LSU at just that time, she may have been the one to pull him through his darkest hour, and who knows what the consequences might be today? Of course all such speculation is at last futile, and I intend no blame or unkindness toward Novalyne Price Ellis. What happened, happened for a reason only God knows. But I find it fascinating to think about.As a true love story it is one of the most unusual and interesting you will ever encounter. D'Onofrio is masterful as usual in juggling all the complexities of Howard's personality. Zellweger is perfect as the ever-conflicted Novalyne, who never knows whether to love Bob, admire him, abhor him, fear him, or hate him.It is telling indeed that this was Price Ellis' first and only book, written when she was a retired English teacher at the age of 76! Although she insisted that she never really loved Bob Howard, she usually did it with tears in her eyes, as witnesses will tell you. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The setting was wonderful, and the way small-town life and attitudes were portrayed were also wonderful. Zellweger showed enormous emotional range in this film. D'Onofrio was somewhat irritating, and he was a producer of this film, and I don't know if was his acting or the direction that made it that way. In the end, since he committed suicide, it was right to portray him as someone who was really high-strung. The movie certainly showed women as very independent, or at least as having independence if they really went after it. As having a career. And that was the crux of the plot feminine independence versus male dominance. Of course, for Bob, it was his mother that dominated his life and on whom he was totally dependent, could not leave home, and Ann Wedgworth played that part very well. "},{"Title":"Charming biopic with special interest for Howard fans","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's not often that biographies are produced about pulp writers, but this little gem scores on all counts. It's sweet, funny, earnest and insightful, conveying the difficulties faced by a young writer on his way up. Vincent Donofrio and Renee Zelwegger make a great team (a pity they have not been matched up again), and the film succeeds as drama, romance and biography. The technical credits are fine, with a warm feel for the time and place of Howard's home and environs. If you're a Conan fan (bookS and/or films), this will be of special interest, as you may have thought of Howard as a macho jock, salivating over the typewriter as he composed his adventure stories. "},{"Title":"The ending is very sad and heartbreaking","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I stumbled on this sad little romance by accident a while ago. The story is a trifle mostly syrupy and sentimentally forced. But I thought the ending was very sad and heartbreaking. It enabled me to view the film again and rethink it. It worked for me on the second viewing; I found out this is a true story, based on a memoir by Novalyne Price about her brief love affair with Robert E. Howard. It is honest and truthful, with superb performances by Renee Zelleweger and especially Vincent D'Onofrio.The film deserves to be seen more than once to fully appreciate it.  "},{"Title":"I was astonished by the brilliance and beauty of this film.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before coming across this film on TV, quite by accident, I had never heard anything about it.  I knew who Robert E. Howard was, because my husband grew up with his Conan stories, but I knew nothing at all about his life.  I feel very fortunate to have thus stumbled onto this remarkable little gem without any prior expectations, the pleasure of discovery adding even more to what would have been, in any event, a delightful experience.Vincent D'Onofrio is an amazingly gifted actor, completely different in every role but always intelligent, fascinating and compelling.  This film is no exception and may be his best work to date.  His performance is brilliant, filled with subtlety and nuance, fire and ice, joy and pain, madness, profundity and beauty.  It is utterly mesmerizing.  The depth and complexity of his portrayal is astonishing, from the flick of an eyebrow to the quiver in his voice to the awkward stride as he walks down a dusty street.  He creates a character so unforgettable and so unique that it is difficult to believe he was a real person.Renee Zellweger is a perfect balance to D'Onofrio.  Her talent is well known, but I liked her better in this film than in anything else I've seen. Again, her characterization was complex, full of intelligence, sensitivity and intensity.  The interplay of these two talented actors is a thing of beauty and a joy to watch.  The script is literate and intelligent, the direction is perfect and the cinematography is stunning.  For reasons I'm not sure I can explain, I found it reminiscent of Shadowlands, another film of rare intelligence and exquisite beauty.The Whole Wide World is altogether a wonderful and unusual film.  I plan to own it and expect to watch it many more times in the future.  I think a rating of 10 out of 10 is obligatory. "},{"Title":"charming but very slow","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The whole wide world is a love story about the real-life pulp fiction writer Robert E. Howard and his admirer Novalyne Price. Following Howard's suicide there were a lot of rumors going around about him that indicated he was loony and crazy. Novalyne Price wrote a single book in her life centered on setting the record straight about Robert and describing him from her eyes. The two leads in this movie were great. Renée Zellweger played Novalyne Price, one of her first acting roles, and Vincent D'Onofrio played Robert E. Howard, one of Dan Ireland's favorite male actors. Both actors were sincere in their roles and brought forward very powerful performances, but neither performed in a tacky over-the-top way either. It was believable and emotional. There were certain parts in the movie that showed us how Robert thought when he was coming up with his action stories. For example, in one scene he is shown walking down the street punching the air and grunting as he pretends he is fighting off someone. This looks really weird to the ladies looking at him from the outside, but to the viewer of the movie we feel like we are in his head due to the strategic sounds and music used. As we have a close shot of Howard's face we hear the sounds of swords hitting and action music to accompany that helps us understand why Howard is acting the way he is. This strategic use of music was extremely powerful and aided the viewer in achieving the ultimate goal of the film to understand Robert E. Howard as a writer. This movie is a love story and so apathy sometimes just comes with the territory, but this movie at times definitely felt like it dragged on. I didn't feel like there was enough actual substance and action for the movie. There were many scenes that just felt like repeats. Novalyne and Robert just drove around in a car and talked for the majority of the movie. While I realize this movie is supposed to depict the true love story it does not serve well for entertainment's sake. When the movie finally did get to the climatic point where we realize that Robert and his mother have a bond that is interfering with his life it is not shown enough for the audience to understand what is going on. I only understood this troubling relationship after I finished the movie and read several reviews and comments on Howard's life. As I was watching the movie it did not make sense to me why Novalyne seemed to be so bitter about Robert caring for his mother who seemed to be on her death bed, it just came off as a lack of compassion towards Howard. The idea that this dramatic scene was supposed to tell was that Howard's mother was keeping him from engaging in new relationships, but the scene was not near dramatic enough. Although overall I thought this was a charming and deep movie (and refreshing due to the lack of sexuality in this love story) I did not think that Novalyne Price had enough of a story from her point of view to be made into a movie. I also thought that since this love story was entirely from her point of view and since she and Howard were never really committed to each other it was difficult for me to fully accept it as a story of true love because I did not fully understand Howard's feelings in the matter. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Again put off from watching re description. I don't tend to watch many biographical movies and certainly couldn't see appeal of watching one about author of Conan the Barbarian (British so not such a cult over here and also a woman so not much appeal!) . I think picked up few times in video store as Renee in it and by then had watched her in Bridget Jones.. but kept reading story line and popped it back. Should have read 1930s Texas, a story of love between a writer of erotic,fantasy adventures, lost in his own world and a forward thinking school teacher torn between conventionality and love. Having googled a little about Robert Howard, think they portrayed his relationship with his mother compassionately and accurately. One of best romantic films I have ever watched ...just think they cut a few scenes that were needed and maybe needed to edit some of longer drawn out parts of movie. "}{"Title":"Whole Wide World of Wonderful","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is probably one of the best to come out of the nineties. I mean, the storyline is fresh, the characters are endearing and sympathetic, and the interactions between the two leads and you the viewer is just perfectly conducted. The title makes you suppose it is this vast tale about a physical journey, when in fact it is a journey of the heart and mind. And one that is a very dangerous undertaking.Renee Zellweger has the rare talent of formulating chemistry with any of her co-stars, but here with Vincent D'Onofrio it's so much more natural. You feel the sizzling sexual tension between the two from start to finish. The characters are a match for each other in every way and it just breaks your heart when the ending comes upon you. Vincent D'Onofrio was the perfect choice for Robert E. Howard, you could see, hear and feel his emotional conflicts and mental instability. He brought a kind of charming hopelessness to this person who needs to be taken care of by taking care of someone else. Zellweger was (as usual) wonderfully cute in this role. She falls for the wild, uncertain pulp fiction writer and has the means to help him, but tragically is unable to.The pacing of this movie was flawless. The movie just flies by and by the end you want to put it on again it was so delicious. This movie doesn't look like much on the outside, but beneath the cover and strangely misleading title is an illustrious tale of two beings destined for greatness and each other. "},{"Title":"Fascinating story about the creator of Conan","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a incredible insight to one of the greatest pulp writers ever. Almost everyone knows who Conan is, very few people know Robert Howard is the writer and even fewer know about his life. This movie is a very good character drama with a bit of a love story.Vincent Donofrio is a outstanding actor and did a brilliant job portraying the late great Robert Howard. Renee Zellweger had a excellent part playing Howards love interest Novalyne Price who was also his life long friend.It is incredible to see how fragile of a human Howard was even though he pen created powerful killers that had no remorse. The only disappointment I had was that there was little seen of the letters he wrote to Price which were at times poetic and tragic.A movie that will surprise you. Not recommended for children under 15. "},{"Title":"A Great Under-Appreciated Art Film","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think that this is a great love story that never happened. But I am not sure that it is about a great love between Novalynne and Bob Howard, in fact I think it is about a great love between Bob and his Mom that could never come to fruition due to their blood relationship.He was so tied to his Mom that he could never really be released from that relationship to form a real adult relationship with a woman his own age. I think it is very telling that he took the irrevocable step that he did upon her death.If you have read the Conan the Barbarian books then you can't help but be interested in the guy who thought up all that macho he-man stuff and wrote it in excellent true pulp fiction style. The truth about him is far more tragic and interesting than I would have thought before seeing this movie. I recommend it not only for the wonderful period detail (despite a few glitches) but because it is a real story about real flawed people. "},{"Title":"True dramatic story that every actor should study","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Often I have seen a great script thrown away by miscasting or poor direction. Not here! Spectacular acting, great story and direction. This is a drama that is brought to life in the realistic portrayals by Renee Zellweger and Vincent D'Onofrio. I have never really liked Renee much. Seen most of her films, including Jerry McGuire, Chicago, Cold Mountain, Bridget Jones, etc and and thought what is the big fuss about? However, I saw this film later after all her successes and was blown away by her performance. This in my opinion is by far her best work - she and D'Onofrio were so compelling in every scene that it leaves me wanting more each time I see it. I wish they would find another vehicle to work in together. Of course Vincent is is his normal larger than life performance. He always entirely captures my attention whenever he is on the screen in any film - but he made the person of Robert E. Howard come alive and even though I never knew much about this author, I wanted to read the book written by Novalyne Price after I saw the film the first time. Their physical difference in height was interesting contrast because you don't notice it after awhile because of both of their strong performances - they share equally and I loved the contrast in how physical the portrayal by Vincent was and how internal the portrayal by Renee. Since this is a drama, it's not a film that you tell all your friends to watch - they just won't understand. But you tell everyone who has a passion for film making to watch it and without exception they all love it and thank you for turning them on to it. If you tell someone to see this because it's a love story - they are going to be really depressed when it is over so I am careful when recommending it - its a tragic love story that is a true labor of love by the entire production team is a much better description. The director, producers and enter cast and crew gave this little gem so much love and attention, and it shows - I think that if this film was made now and Mirmax distributed it, or was debuted at the right festival it would be a film that would be recognized and given the much deserved awards and distribution it deserves. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Story that is a Little Hard to See","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of those rare movies when the character actually bothers me and turns me off from the movie. But I ended up watching it twice and the second time, I enjoyed it much more.Vincent D'Onofrio is an amazing actor, anyone that watches this movie can see this. His portrayal of Bob Howard is so abrasive and perfect, so convincing that I feel almost annoyed with his character.Novalyne Price and Bob Howard as a classic couple that is doomed from the start. Howard's big wig attitude pushed Novalyne to a submissive nature that finally gets to her.The two actors' performances and chemistry is astounding and you truly believe that they were in love. Speaking of love, this movie most certainly has THE best on screen kiss I have ever seen. Many other 'best' on screen kisses are overly dramatic and obviously thought out. The one kiss shared between Bob Howard and Novalyne Price is smooth, passionate and endearing.The story of their crash-and-burn romance is something that may be hard to swallow at first, but take a second look (much like confusing movies like Momento). The second time you may see it, you will start to see the charm and endearing nature that Bob Howard seem to show only to Novalyne. Just like the rest of the world, to see his good qualities we just have to look a little harder. "},{"Title":"Be sure and see The Whole Wide World","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Whole Wide World was one of the best movies I have seen in my 82 years (79 of them watching as many movies as I could) and I had not known there was a movie about Robert Howard, much less starring two of my now favorite actors. It was so good it gave me chills. I think most of it was the acting of Vincent D'Onofrio - it was as if it wasn't even acting. He just WAS Robert Howard. A fascinating man and a fascinating man played him. Vincent D'Onofrio is one of our greatest actors today and, no matter what you see him in, or what part he is playing, or whoever else is there, you can't take your eyes off of him. If you are truly a great movie lover, don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Sensitively acted and beautifully directed","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the best films I have seen.Renee Zellweger and Vincent D'Onofrio are perfectly ast asNovalyne Price and Robert E Howard.The acting was pitched perfectly, no over the top dramatics. I really cared about these people.The film was based on a true story .Robert E. Howard was the pulp fiction writer of Conan the Barbarian, Red Sonja, and several other works. He was an intelligent, child-man who lived a fantasy life. He had very little experience where girls were concerned and the love of his life was his ailing mother, whom he idiolized.Novelyne Price was ayoung,pretty, feisty ,ThShe wanted twoman who taught at a nearbye school.She wanted to be a writerThey became friends and this is the story of their time together "},{"Title":"Incredible but true!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's thrilling that The Whole Wide World is on DVD at long last! It's an experience you'll never forget! Renee Zellweger has never been spunkier or cuter or had more character. You'll fall in love with Vincent D'Onofrio and care deeply about the life of Robert E. Howard and of Novalyne Price. Thank you, Dan Ireland, for such a moving and meaningful movie about the creator of Conan the Barbarian and the wonderful young teacher he fell in love with. After seeing the movie, I bought the book One Who Walked Alone and have desperately sought all I can find about this movie. And yes, that kiss is the most amazing and breathtaking ever! I LOVE The Whole Wide World! "},{"Title":"Beautifully written and acted - a real heart breaker!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't repeat the other well written comments, but will echo the opinion that it is a beautiful film, with indelible performances by both D'Onofrio and Zellweiger. I think it is the best work both have done to date.  Something is wrong with the world when a film of this caliber is overlooked - I had only heard vaguely about it before happening across it on tv late one night.  The first time the two characters kiss is incredibly powerful, and there are no false moments in this film.  The ending was shocking and heartbreaking, but the written epilogue was so touching.  It makes this film even more worthwhile to realize it was based on a true story.  They did the author proud. Rent it and see it, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"An underrated wordsmith...","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***SPOLIERS*** Robert E. Howard was an underrated wordsmith whose stories almost singlehandedly defined the heroic fantasy genre. Unlike many of his contemporaries, Howard was a genuinely gifted writer- and, like Poe and Lovecraft, his work went unheralded for a time following his death. This remarkable movie touches on some of the reasons behind Howard's untimely death- but overlooks others entirely his almost hand-to-mouth existence; his father's gratis work for local folks who couldn't afford to pay for medical attention they received; his mother's extended hospital stay(s); his desperate, written pleas to WEIRD TALES editor Farnsworth Wright for monies due him (Howard was owed around a thousand dollars for published stories at the time of his death- money he desperately needed). A monthly check from WEIRD TALES, Howard wrote, may well mean the difference between a life that is at least endurable- and God alone knows what. He told August Derleth I don't want to live to be old. I want to die when my time comes, quickly and suddenly, in the full tide of my strength and health. A beautiful and moving film that might've delved just a little deeper into the soul of the man himself.       "}{"Title":"Excellent film! Such a tragic love story, I must read the book","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a must for every romantic out there!!! I saw it on tv one day becasue I was bored and was roped into so quickly. I cried so hard by film's end though. It was so tragic. I really liked Bob despite his problems and it was so sad to see what happened to him. These kind of romances I'm drawn to; The tortured man and the woman who he loves but somehow can't express it! I have to read Novylen P.Ellis' book. If the movie was great, the book is probably superb! I recomend this movie to everybody. Beware, however, you will be bawling by the end and will need plenty of tissues, so this isn't for the light-hearted. This movie is just so wonderful. Zellweger and D'Onofrio ooze passion in this film, probablly one of the greatest all time movie kisses in this film!!!! I just wanted to hug Bob so much and tell him everything was ok. This movie seems even more sad because it's a true story. I just got into this movie way too much! I'm going to buy it and will watch every rainy Sunday that comes by-its one of those awesome chick flicks that you never get sick of watching! But guys don't stray, it's so good,everyone must watch it!!!! I give it 5 stars!!! I don't know why this movie was so overlooked! I just heard of it today and hoped on the net to post this,I loved it that much. On a more shallow note, D'Onofiro was so hot in this movie and Zellweger looks better as a brunette! "},{"Title":"not much to be learned about Howard or his writing from this; just a story of unsuccessful love","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a nice movie, nicely shot and well-acted, but there was some kind of lack of depth to it that kept me from liking it more.A problem for me was that we learn so little about Robert E. Howard. We don't learn much about his writing in the movie either. The movie begins when he is already regularly being published in the pulps. We don't really learn anything about events prior to that. We don't know much about his relationship with his mother and father, or his two male friends. Everything is pretty much from Novalyne's knowledge of him, and while I understand that the film was based on her memoirs of him, I wish other sources about his life had been delved into. Perhaps not much more is known, in which case I suppose it is better or fairer not to speculate. "},{"Title":"historically and biographically accurate","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is actually a very lovely movie indeed. Everybody has heard of the pulp fiction stories of Conan the Barbarian but only hard core fans do know the story behind its writer Robert E. Howard, who created this fantasy hero in 1932. Unfortunately he died at the age of only 30. In his short very productive life he enjoyed literary success but had also, though inspiring and romantic, a not quite fulfilling love affair with Novalyne Price Ellis. The movie is historically and biographically correct. Very prettily filmed and characterisations seem to be truthful with accents and all. I definitely learned something new and enjoyed the skillful and atmospheric movie-making. "},{"Title":"A huge Renee Zellweger fan anyway, and now I know why","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I caught part of the movie on AMC recently, and (as a Renee fan) it inspired me to read the book 'One Who Walked Alone', and I was glad to see the movie come out on DVD just as I was finishing the book.  What's striking about this movie is its beautiful simplicity, from the story to the scenery to the music to the acting - everything appears so natural and fitting for a movie about the 30's in rural Texas.  D'Onofrio is perfect, absolutely perfect as Robert E. Howard - not that I'm surprised, since 'Law & Order Criminal Intent' is one of the few TV shows I make a point to watch - because of him. I was already a big Renee Zellweger fan (I have Beagles named Bridget and Zelly), but I'd first seen her in Jerry Maguire, and had always wondered, where did she come from?  I was pretty sure it wasn't from 'Love and a .45' or 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' - now I know.  I've never seen an actress who can so fully become a character, whether it's Dorothy Boyd or Bridget Jones or Roxy Hart or Barbara Novak - or Novalyne Price, and one who can facially and physically convey so many different looks and emotions in an apparently natural way.  As for the movie, there are so many ways it can touch you, it almost has to resonate with everyone at some level.  The movie is remarkably true to the book, given a few exceptions, like The Mustache, which was a key turning point in Bob & Novalyne's relationship in the book, but barely addressed in the movie.  Bob's mother's hold on him isn't as strong in the movie as it was in the book either, but the book was written by Novalyne, so she was probably pretty tough on Bob's mother when she wrote it.  All in all, it's a wonderful film, and given the time and budget constraints involved, its quality is a huge accomplishment. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Sad and Revealing","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film dramatizes and explores a fascinating mystery of life Great creative genius often comes paired with great mental distress and illness. It also addresses the value of genre (fantasy, horror, etc.) writing and its potential to be as valuable as any type of literature. Vincent D'Onofrio excels as the exciting, strange, romantic and troubled Robert E. Howard, author of the Conan novels and brings him to life writing, struggling, physical, angry, powerful and dominated by his manipulative and sick mother. It is one of my favorite performances I have ever seen. Renee Zellwegger creates a smart, strong and sensitive seeker in the role of Novalyne Price. This is what great drama should aspire to. "},{"Title":"A compelling and truthful love story","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vincent D'Onofrio's portrayal of Robert Howard the greatest pulp fiction writer in the whole wide world is magnificent. He is the blunt yet poetic and manly outsider to a tee. But what fascinated me was the totally truthful love story between he and Novalyne Price, who wrote the memoir upon which the movie is based. This is the way, in my experience, relationships really work - or not, in this case. I kept getting the feeling of recognition throughout the film as the actors argued about acceptable behavior and yet managed to experience sublime moments together, usually out in nature. Sometimes in life differences are overcome and since this is a biopic it's really no spoiler that in this film the differences are not overcome. But you really root for these two anyway. It's our Hollywood conditioning. We want a happy ending and when we don't get it, it's like passing a wreck on the highway. We can't help but look at it. Even though this memoir was the kindest treatment of Robert Howard by biographers, it did not shy away from the more spooky aspects of his character, namely the marginal stalker and the over-the-edge attachment to his mother. That it is a true story makes it all the more compelling. And, yes, the kiss is worthy of mention, especially on the heels of the most disappointing screen kiss in cinematic history at the end of Star Wars Attack of the Clones. That a 1930s kiss had more passion than George Lucas could handle is a crying shame.    "},{"Title":"A woman's memories of a truly unique man SPOILERS AHEAD","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Whole Wide World tells of the life of one of America's greatest writers of the old pulp fiction magazines, Robert E. Howard. The movie centers around the relationship between him and Novalyne Price, upon whose book this movie is based. In the beginning, Robert comes across as a coarse, over-confident, rough house man. He writes of over the top heroes, enunciating the story line as he types it out. Upon meeting Miss Price, he slowly transforms into an almost civilized gentleman.......almost. Though he is taken by her, he is unable to bring himself to settle down. I walk this world alone, he would tell her. Also, he is unable to break away from his mother, for whom he tends to her every need. Robert's world begins to fall apart when Novalyne starts dating another. Shortly after she leaves to obtain her degree at LSU, his mother's health takes a turn for the worse. Unable to deal with perceived abandonment, Robert takes his own life.This is a highly under-rated film. Vincent D'Onofrio and Renée Zellweger give the best performances of their careers. Had the studio really promoted it, The Whole Wide World could easily have been movie of the year. "},{"Title":"This love story is like that long lost diamond that shines on long after the 'Titanic has sunk long after 'The Titanic'","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The Whole Wide World' is an exquisite gem. I didn't know it came out and was lost in shuffle of Christmas 96/97. Presumably it was sunk in the Titanic's wake. But it just may endure in its own endearing way, way beyond the Titanic. The true test of a film is whether it transfers to the small screen & small audio capability of your average TV set. My TV set is very average & I caught 'The Whole Wide World' by accident (fairly recently) while channel surfing. It is unmistakably one from the heart. It certainly captured my heart. I was like who is this guy with Renee Zellweger? With this guy, in this film, she just radiated the real Renee. And him? Oh, I just fell in love with this fellow. He looks so enormous next to her --and is obviously just as enormously talented --and he bumbles and fumbles & is full of contradictions & anger & sweetness & fatal, fragile tenderness. What an antidote to Hollywood packaged presentation of American male hood! So when are we going to see D'Onofrio/Zellweger together again? "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After watching this film just today, I can honestly say it is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  Even though it's long, almost two hours, it feels like it needs more time devoted to it.  My mother found this movie quite by accident, and I saw the PG rating on it and thought that it couldn't be too bad, so we rented it.  Boy, was I in for a shock.  This movie really touched me.  I've never seen anyone play someone so tortured as Vincent D'onofrio played Bob Howard. (the closest I can even think of might be Timothy Hutton's role as Conrad in Ordinary People)Renee Zellweger also surprised me, as it turns out she has actual talent! The chemistry between the actors is wonderful, and the tension could be felt even though they never did ANYTHING besides two passionate kisses.  I now must see if I can buy this movie, for it is certainly worth it.  The end did make me cry, but it was the cry and that was both sad and happy.   Anyone who is the mood for a real love story should rent this movie.  You won't be sorry.  I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Astounding Performance By D'Onofrio","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	After retiring from teaching, lifelong aspiring writer Novalyne Price wrote her first book at age 76, `One Who Walked Alone,' a memoir dedicated to the memory of pulp fiction writer Robert E. Howard, and upon which this film, `The Whole Wide World,' directed by Dan Ireland, is based.  The film paints a soul wrenching portrait of a man who was larger than life in the world of his own creation, but who was a socially inept, self-proclaimed `lummox' in the real world, who had an unhealthy devotion to his sickly mother and had trouble expressing his true feelings to the woman he obviously loved.  To Novalyne Price-- as well as his legions of devoted readers-- Howard was the greatest pulp writer in the whole wide world.  But to him, living in a small town in Texas in the &#145;30s, that world was populated by `maggots of corruption,' and was a dangerous place filled with outlaws, thieves and robbers.  He masked his true poetic nature with an outwardly gregarious manner and bravura, which, along with his self-imposed exile from society made his on-again-off-again relationship with Price nearly insurmountable.  To the world, he gave Conan the Barbarian and some of the greatest action adventures ever written; to Novalyne he gave the sunrise, the sunset and the moon, but was incapable of giving himself, telling her, `The road I walk, I walk alone.'  Not that it was what he wanted, but it was all he knew how to do in the `real' world, which he sadly never learned to negotiate.	Working from a sensitive, extremely well written screenplay by Michael Scott Myers, Ireland compassionately explores Howard's world through the eyes of Novalyne Price.  What we see is an enigmatic, lonely man struggling with the demons of his soul, who escapes to the worlds of his fantasies in order to cope with life.  He is most comfortable talking about his work, and the lands of his imagination.  When relating one of his `yarns, as he called his stories, he is on his feet, swelling his chest and becoming Conan, sword in hand, battling beasts and enemies and rescuing scantily clad women from harm.  He is transported by his own characters, and watching, the audience is taken along with him, swept away by the passion in his eyes and the sounds of clanking swords.  When he writes, he speaks his words aloud, passionately losing himself in the story even as he is creating it.  And these scenes, backed by the captivating score by Hans Zimmer and Harry Gregson-Williams, are especially powerful and emotionally riveting, which underscores the action and heightens the emotional level and the viewers involvement with the characters and the story.  Ireland juxtaposes the intimacy of the story with some stunning visuals and superb cinematography that will keep Howard and Price in your memory long after the film has ended.  It's terrific work by Ireland, and deserving of the highest acclaim.	In a criminally unacclaimed and overlooked performance, Vincent D'Onofrio is absolutely astounding in the role of Bob Howard.  The work he does here can stand alongside the best performances of the greatest actors.  In this film, he IS Howard, physically and emotionally, from the inside out.  He captures every emotion, vividly, with nuance and to perfection; the repressed feelings, the constant, inner turmoil of the man who had confidence in the one thing he knew how to do-- write-- but who also recognized that he was a misfit who lacked even the basic, everyday skills of survival.  It's a painful portrait of a tortured individual to whom one can relate and empathize because of D'Onofrio's consummate skill as an actor.  It's simply a staggeringly powerful and memorable performance.	Renee Zellweger gives an excellent performance, as well, as Novalyne Price, this somewhat progressive, though rather straight-laced young woman frustrated time and again in her attempts to break through the complexities of this man to whom she is ready to devote her life.  It's an endearing portrait of a strong, yet vulnerable woman willing to forego many of the conventions of the times for the man she loves, if only he would meet her halfway.  She creates a character with whom you can readily sympathize and identify, making Novalyne very real and her relationship with Howard believable.  It's a beautiful piece of work, for which-- like D'Onofrio-- she did not receive the attention she deserved.	The supporting cast includes Ann Wedgeworth (Mrs. Howard), Harve Presnell (Dr. Howard), Benjamin Mouton (Clyde), Michael Corbett (Booth), Helen Cates (Enid), Leslie Berger (Ethel) and Chris Shearer (Truett).  There's life as we'd like it to be, and life as it really is, and `The Whole Wide World' is a masterfully presented character study that succinctly examines that situation.  It's an insightful and emotionally gripping film that explores human nature and the often incomprehensible workings of the mind that compel individuals to do what they must do.  In the end, it's a film that will touch you in many ways, and will linger in your thoughts for more than just a little while.  I rate this one 10/10. 	             "}{"Title":"The Sun and the Moon","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most passionate stories of any I've had the pleasure of discovering, for all its quietude. It is very rare that a love story can make my heart ache - especially for both individuals. This one did.Vincent D'Onofrio captured the very soul of Robert E. Howard and made me love him, even as I wanted to throttle him for all his self-centered and defensive posturing. He seemed to breathe Howard's intensity and intensely personal battles, and in so doing, brought real life to a man who could - possibly in any other hands - easily have been caricaturized, for so many different layers to be expounded.Renee Zellweger gives an amazing performance wrought with a delicate balance of 1930's gentility and femininity and tough-as-nails grit this, for me, is her absolute best performance thus far (and I loved her in Jerry Maguire!). Her southern roots show beautifully in this unbelievable portrayal of such complexity and simplicity.Michael Scott Myers delivers very sweet and touching dialogue which is real enough to keep your teeth from aching in this, his freshman effort and Director Dan Ireland integrates scenery, background, and players so aptly that one can smell the corn at which the frustrated Howard hacks away in rage (a symbolic reality which he's incapable of controlling) in his father's cornfield; feel the splintered the wood planks that devise the old homestead where Bob asks Novalyne to `suppose you were a lonely, beautiful woman.,'; and taste the pain of a very real love lost.I am amazed that this movie didn't garner far more public acclaim; it deserves it! "},{"Title":"I was in absolute awe after watching this movie","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is absolutely perfect in every way. It is beautifully shot, beautifully written, beautifully acted by every member of the cast. Vincent D'Onofrio is as amazing as usual, and Renee Zellweger gives an incredible performance. If you are a fan of somewhat misbegotten romance, this is a film you should definitely see. "},{"Title":"Amazing Film.","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a true story, based on the memiors of Novalyne Price.  It's about her relationship with Robert Howard, creator of Conan the Barbarian.I have read once that Price claims she never loved Howard, but if this movie is faithful to her memiors (which I haven't read yet), then I can't believe that.  This is such a touching film, and it is, hands down, Renee Zellweger's best performance.  Trust me, i've seen just about everything she's been in.  She's very good, but here, she's at her best.  Vincent D'Onofrio is excellent here as well, although I don't know if this performance could top his guest appearance on Homicide Life on the Street (1993) in 1997.This is still an excellent film, a great cinematic achievment by Dan Ireland. Too bad this was never released on wide screen, i'm sure it would be amazing. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Moving And Sad Movie","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderfully sad movie.  I cried days after seeing it. It is based on the real life relationship between Robert E.Bob Howard, creator of Conan The Barbarian and Novelyne Price.  Renee Zellweger and Vincent D'Onofrio were very moving as the lead characters.  If the Academy Awards were more about talent and less about everything else, D'Onofrio would have won an Oscar by now.  His portrayal of Bob Howard was so multifaceted that I wanted to hug and comfort him, or slap him in the head out of frustration all at the same time!  Bob Howard was a man born before his time and place. D'Onofrio showed his pain and confusion masterfully.  This movie is a good primer for dating do's and don'ts.  Also, it has the best movie kiss I have ever seen.  Get the hankies out and watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly touching, worth anyone's time.","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an amazingly touching movie. I am not a crier, but I bald my eyes out. At the end of the movie you feel like you've known the characters your whole life. That's what makes a movie truly worth your time. 10/10 It only takes one time watching it to get the entire meaning of it. Rent don't buy. "},{"Title":"A gem of a film, featuring the astonishing Vincent D'Onofrio","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reading the comments of other viewers of  The Whole Wide World has given me special pleasure, and brought back memories of my first viewing of this remarkable film.  Dan Ireland, Director, is one of the co-founders of the Seattle International Film Festival.  His film was the opening night choice in 1996, and I was present at this screening.  It was a memorable evening;  I have always regretted that the film was not promoted, and thus only reached a small audience. It is a thoughtful story passionately told, beautifully filmed. It is true that Vincent D'Onofrio's performance as pulp fiction writer Robert Howard is one of the all time great screen portrayals.  His work is detailed, nuanced, compelling, larger than life.  I was awed by  his work, I will never forget it.  Renee Zellweger, outstanding in one of her early screen roles, tries to open his heart, yet he can only give so much.  This quiet film will reward you, it may break your heart... Highly recommended!  "},{"Title":"The greatest film I've ever seen, BAR NONE!  See this one!","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though you may have guessed from my username, I love Vincent D'Onofrio. But this film is so well done, it deserves kudos on many levels. Renee Zellweger (sp?) is fabulous as Novalyne Price (Ellis), an aspiring writer who befriends a socially inept Robert E. Howard (in an OSCAR worthy performance by Vincent D'Onofrio).No spoilers, so I won't comment much more. This film is more that a romance or a biopic. It defines human emotions and character on a level seldom seen in film today. It is reminicent, in my opinion, of the chemistry of Hepburn/Tracy coupled with the character driven plots of David Mamet et al. If you love a movie that will move you and one that entertains as well as enlightens, this is the film for you.Forget the passion between the two main characters, forget that Robert E. Howard was the creator of exploitational pulp fiction, and forget anything you've ever heard about Renee Zellweger's acting ability. This film is acting and directing at it's finest. The best scene involves a description of an indian brave... priceless and brilliant! See this film! "},{"Title":"Boring? I disagree ...","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boring??? Someone called this move boring, and because a situation can usually be argued both ways, I am taking time to respond to that comment.it's been roughly 2 years since I've seen this film, but I still remember it, which says to me that it was anything but boring.   It's true that not everyone likes romantic dramas, and thats what this movie is - VERY romantic, i saw it on the Women's Entertainment channel, so there you go.  Tear-jerker? yes.  chic-flick?Probably.  but boring? Never.  Vincent D'Onofrio is a fabulous actor, and brings something almost bigger than life to his character. Renee Zellwegger is great in this, her character is beautiful and inspiring.  It is most definitely character-driven , a beautiful story about two people, and supposedly based on real people. I loved this film, it was a special treasure, a rare find for me on a drab sunday afternoon 2 years ago, and I never have forgotten it. I absolutely love discovering movies that no one else has heard much about.  Here's another one I HIGHLY recommend  Happy Accidents (also starring D'Onofrio)!  Can't get enough of it!  "},{"Title":"I hate love stories, but this was excellent!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a Vincent D'Onofrio fan, but this was beyond my expectations. The filming was wonderful the way the story unfolded, I didn't know what was going to happen next. It was like they WERE the characters... and the ending was not what I expected!I had never heard of Robert E. Howard, but this movie made me curious enough to want to read some of his work. That is a tribute to all who made the movie possible. "},{"Title":"passionate","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  See this movie just for the kiss.  There is so much making out in the movies nowadays, and most of it soooooo dull (did you see josh hartnett and kate beckinsale in pearl harbor, just for one snoozy and irritating example) but this is the exception.  These two people in this very strange little movie have that elusive chemistry that reminds you why we hang around on this planet. "}{"Title":"This is one of the best movies I have ever seen.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Whole Wide World is one of the best romance movies I have ever seen.  D'Onofrio and Zellweger play the one of the best on screen loves.  It is good to see a movie where there don't have to be love scenes to show their love.  I recommend this movie to all people who like dramatic romance.  "},{"Title":"A beautifully written, acted and directed story of an impossible love..","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Whole Wide World took me by surprise because I had never heard of it. It reminded me of the recent 'You Can Count on Me' because both are deceptively 'small' films, with powerful undercurrents and emotions. There is great dialogue, acting and directing in both films. In the way of the best of the old Hollywood movies, Whole Wide World is very romantic with just two kisses -- but what extraordinary kisses. This is the way a biopic should be -- it focuses on one element of the subject's life but is about so much more. This is one of the great and neglected stories of the artist-as-outsider. Thomas Mann would have appreciated it! The portrait of this lonely pulp fiction writer, sitting in the dustbowl, in a small town in Texas in the 1930s living life vicariously through his character Conan the Barbarian, is compelling and original.  If it weren't true, it would be a great concept for a film!  This concept is made more brilliant by the natural 'tension' of the plot.  Novelyne Price is almost the complete opposite -- even her shared love of writing has nothing in common with Robert Howard's 'shocking' taste. There is wonderful scene where Novelyne tells Robert the plot of one of her absurd 'true confession' stories and he laughs during the entire telling, until she refuses to continue. Then they both laugh.But the different type of writing both do introduce an interesting historical perspective into the film. Although this small town in Texas is a million miles from New York, both are aiming for the very commercial popular type of fiction that have come to characterise the 1930s -- the origin of the 'b' movie that gave us so many film classics. This was the origin of pulp fiction and Howard was one of the true originals.The writers Michael Scott Myers, based on the book by Novalyne Price Ellis, deserve special mention for creating a 3-dimensional hero that is a real character who we actually miss and think about when the film is over. The writers/director/and the brilliant Vincent D'Onofino (from Mystic Pizza fame) show us so many sides to this man that he remains unpredictable compelling and believable. There is a scene in which Novalyne tells Howard what qualities he has that a woman would be attracted to  how right she is! D'Onofino/Howard acting out the stories (playing narrator and all roles) at his typewriter; his tender caring for his sick mother; his sense of humour; and his tragic inability to express his feelings for Novalyne outside of his comic book world make this one of the great cinematic roles. "},{"Title":"If you like movies about the human condition, with psychological overtones... you will love this movie.","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like movies about the human condition, with psychological overtones... you will love this movie.  If you like movies with a great story and wonderful dialog...you'll love this movie.  The acting, direction, cinematography and sound track are all superb.  The sexual and emotional dynamics between the characters are among the best I have seen depicted on the screen.  The story takes place in a small Texas town and is based on a true life experience.  It revolves around a young teacher, who is aspiring to be an author, and her relationship with the creator of the pulp fiction icon Conan, the Barbarian.  She a mom, apple pie, and America kind of girl.  He a bombastic creative genius who is sexually and emotionally repressed.  A heart rending film about their friendship and unrequited love.  "},{"Title":"I adored the story and Vincent's character in this movie","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was just discovering Vincent D'Onofrio the actor, and came upon The Whole Wide World. The story and Vincent's portrayal of Bob Howard was remarkable. He hit the mark with the character perfectly. The passionate persona and yet the sensitivity showed through splendidly. The whole film was a great achievement on both actors, and its become my new favorite. -) "},{"Title":"A gem","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vincent D'Onofrio seems to appear in two kinds of films--big budget ones where he appears in bizarre supporting roles (think MEN IN BLACK); or small, independent ones where he appears in eccentric leading roles. THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD is one of the latter, and Mr. D'Onofrio is extraordinary as Robert E. Howard, the pulp writer who created Conan the Barbarian. His performance is funny, intelligent, scary, and heartbreaking. Few actors take as many chances as D'Onofrio, and some find his work too over the top. But he hits every right note in this film--it's a great performance. Renee Zwellegger is excellent as well, and deals well with her part in spite of the fact her role is somewhat underdeveloped. The film also does a splendid job in capturing the joys and terrors of living in a small rural community, and the cinematography is stunning. There are also wonderful performances by Harve Presnell and Ann Wedgeworth as Howard's parents.The film does require the viewer to think, and to relate to characters who have serious shortcomings. These characters are well worth knowing, however. And the film contains one of the most romantic and tragic kisses I've ever seen on screen. Make the effort to see this movie.I strongly recommend the DVD of this film--the commentary by Dan Ireland, Mr. D'Onofrio, and others is insightful and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Acted","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A beautifully acted, extraordinarily touching film. D'Onofrio is my favorite actor based almost solely on this performance. Zellweger gained an enormous amount of credibility as an actress in my eyes after I saw this movie. Jerry Maguire was OK, but it didn't really show the full range of her talents. This is a stunning movie -- one of my favorite romantic movies of all time (see also Dogfight). I'm so happy to see how many other people REALLY like this film. --Frink-3 "},{"Title":"Superb movie, based on a true story in Texas in the 1930s.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" SOME SPOILERS - Bob Howard was a real pulp fiction writer in 1930s Texas. By any measure he was a possessed man. In one scene, when he is writing one of his science fiction pieces we can hear the frantic voice in his head. Vince D'Onofrio is great as Howard. This tall, gangle of a man, blunt demeanor, awkward body language, delighted in arousing the people in public by loudly discussing his stories of naked women, bound and being attacked by..., to the point that his friend Novalyn Price (Renee Zellweger) would get up, embarrassed and say let's get out of here. Bob was obviously a social misfit, gentle to a fault around his sick mother, but stand-offish around his best girl. At one point Novalyn says, Tell me you'll change, that you'll get out more, that you'll try to let go of your mother. At that he retreats again.It is clear that Novalyn has a deep attraction and love for this mess of a man with a brilliant imagination. It is also clear that he would like to allow himself to get closer to her, maybe to spend his life with her, but he just can't. MAJOR SPOILERS FOLLOW. After Novalyn is at LSU for graduate study, she gets a telegram that Bob has killed himself. He just couldn't deal with himself, and the loss of his sick mother. Zellweger is also great here, in a film right before the one that put her in our sights, Jerry McGwire. Novalyn eventually did get married (Ellis), as far as I can tell is still alive, a retired schoolteacher in Lafayette, Louisiana, the town I went to college in during the 1960s. This is a really fine story, and a superb film. "},{"Title":"This was a Beautiful Movie, Beautifully done!","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't say enough about how much I liked this Movie. I IMMEDIATELY ordered the book it is based on, several Robert E. Howard books and a copy of the DVD for my collection! BRILLIANT ,ROMANTIC, POIGNANT and TRAGIC! I thought Vincent D'Onofrio was superb! Rene' Zellewieger was, as always ,delightful! Howard was a much under-rated writer. He was a complex person and Novalyne obviously knew him well. This is a story of star-crossed lovers. People who in a different setting , under different circumstances could've been a power couple. It is a shame the story ends so sadly. I would suggest this movie to anyone with an interest in Fantasy writing. I always find it fascinating to discover the artist behind the art and this movie delivers just enough fact to make Howard all the more intriguing. "},{"Title":"I love this movie at many levels.","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Novalyne and Bob stole my heart and broke it, and I can't help but think about Bob telling Novalyne that her stories don't sell because they have no conflict, i.e., her girl and boy meet, fall in love, live happily ever after.  Well, Bob was so right.  Without the good and the bad, things would be mighty bland and boring.  A perfect example is this very movie  if it weren't so good that it both stole and broke our hearts, we wouldn't be talking about it.  WWW makes me smile, laugh, and cry.  It's chock-full of delicious dialogue, and of course, Novalyne's book has almost 400 pages to enjoy.  (One Who Walked Alone is available at amazon, ebay, half-bay, and probably many other vendors).I love all the dialogue, but Bob really made me laugh with his I put on a clean white shirt, by God!  My father grew up near Cross Plains in the '30s. He told me many years ago that dressed up for the boys meant...donning a clean white shirt.  And as a little child, I remember my elderly great uncles' only swear words being by God! as part of their dialogue when they were arguing politics, etc.  THANKS, DAN, VINCENT, RENEE, BENJAMIN, MIKE, ANN, HARVE AND ALL THE REST OF YOU who made this beautiful movie.  And may God bless the souls of NOVALYNE and BOB, CLYDE, TRUETT, and their families.  I wish they could know how touched so many are by their lives.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely the best! WOW!","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Zellweger and D'Onofrio ... WOW! The chemistry between these two marvelous actors just sizzles. The story is a bittersweet love story that does not disappoint; it is well written and exquisitely directed and performed. The tug-of-war that takes place within the heart of Robert Howard (D'Onofrio),who is trying to choose a life and relationship for himself whilst staying true to his invalid mother, is heart-breaking to see. There is a scene on a hilltop where Howard's personal need for teacher Novalyne Price (Zellweger) overcomes his reticence, and they share a kiss that rivals, if not surpasses, the famous kiss between Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr in From Here to Eternity. It is absolutely electric! A later scene in which Howard begs Price for her love and belief is heart-rending. This is a movie in which there is no gratuitous sex, nor is there nudity or foul language. It is simply a great story well told. See it now; it is a keeper. You will not be disappointed!  "}{"Title":"Captivating Film","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My first glimpse of this movie was as a snippet in passing.  I chanced to see the scene in the corn field where a fighter is being described, Born on the battlefield ... to him, combat's a way of life.  It's all he's ever known.  All he ever WANTS to know!  I thought to myself, Man, that sure sounds like Robert E. Howard describing Conan the Barbarian.  Imagine my surprise when I discovered that was what was actually being portrayed!  I have been a huge fan of Robert E. Howard for years.  His writing was bigger than life ... he actually defined heroic fantasy and created the entire genre known as Sword and Sorcery.I bought the DVD only to learn more about Robert E. Howard and was surprised to be drawn so completely into the whole wide story.  I was virtually transported to Texas in the 1930's and became genuinely concerned about the relationship between two fascinating people during my short stay.Now, I don't usually go for tear jerkers, but this one really stole my heart even though I knew in advance that it would end in tragedy if it followed the true history of Robert E. Howard.  All I can say is, Wow.  Motion pictures get no better than this...Donofrio and Zellweger are compelling and convincing.  Zellweger achieved movie fame from this film.  "},{"Title":"Do not miss this movie!!!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is definitely on my Top 10.  If it hadn't been for Siskel and Ebert's rave, I may have not discovered it.  The Whole Wide World is simply one of the most beautiful, deeply felt films I've ever seen.  It's obvious that it was a true labor of love for everyone involved.  The cinematography is gorgeous, especially those Texas sunsets.  D'Onofrio gives perhaps his finest performance - which is saying a lot.  He does not shy away from Howard's dark side, but it's his vulnerability that is heartbreaking.  It's a love letter to all of us who've felt like we do not fit in with everyday society.  Though I love Renee Zellweger, I still consider this early performance her best.  Perhaps she connected with this character more than any other?  I don't know.  Most of all, this film contains the best movie kiss ever, even surpassing that incendiary scene in Notorious.  Never in my life have I burst into sobs so honestly watching a kiss.  I recommend this movie to everyone I know.  Those who take it come back with the same rapturous response. "},{"Title":"D'Onofrio and Zellweger outdid themselves in this movie, and that is really saying something!","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I became aware of this movie when I saw a list of Vincent D'Onofrio's movies on this website.  I was ordering as many as I could, but had to wait until August, when it came out on DVD.  It was well worth the wait.  I see why Vincent says it is his favorite of all the things he has done.  I really get into actors who consider acting a craft and who work at it, and he is certainly one of them.  Renee Zellweger has been doing that, too, and she says in a special interview done just for the DVD, that Vincent taught her so many things about acting while they were making this movie.  It was this performance that brought her the part in Jerry Maguire.  It is a tremendous story, all the better because it is true, and because Hollywood didn't mess it up or jazz it up.  So go get the DVD now. . . Remember, even if they don't have it in smaller towns like Wausau, you can always order it over the internet! You'll want to watch it several times for sure! "},{"Title":"A tough movie to watch, but more than worth it.","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a youngster, I collected all the Robert E. Howard stories I could find, and I have the entire Conan series in paperback, most published around 1970. The forewords in most of these books gave a brief, often shockingly inaccurate description of Howard's short, unhappy life, and his suicide at age 30.  One callous editor even made the comment in the foreword about the loss to fantasy writing when `he blew his silly brains out.' (sic)This movie, based on Novelyne Price's book, is a moving account of his relationship with the only woman he ever dated.  And, while it makes it clear how much his mother controlled him, it avoids the mistake of becoming too deeply psychoanalytical.  Instead, it simply tells the story, and tells it clearly.  Renee Zellweger, minus blonde hair and Hollywood glamour, is a genius at conveying a complete sentence of feeling with just a look, and overcomes the fashions of the 30's to look glowingly beautiful.  Vincent D'Onofrio brings Robert Howard to the screen, in all his complexity, as both a very likable and totally frustrating character.It was hard to watch, as the relationship blossomed, and then foundered. I found myself wishing they could make it work, even when I knew it was doomed.  It's neither an upbeat movie nor a three-hankie weeper; it's just life.  Probably why the suits in Hollywood couldn't figure it out.I gave it a 9.  'Nuff said.  "},{"Title":"A movie for romantics","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  D'Onofrio is perfect for the part of Howard and Zellweger is a great balancing contrast.  A movie suited to the romantics at heart but be warned it is not light entertainment.  Features, in my humble opinion, one of the best screen kisses. "},{"Title":"A flick for the more mature chicks","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Whole Wide World , an old school melodrama, tells of a simple school teacher in 1930's Texas (Zellweger) and her relationship with pulp fiction writer Bob Howard (D'Onofrio) who created such characters as Conan the barbarian and Kull the conqueror.  A simple tale of two people, there's little meat on the bones of this flick though it is a sincere and earnest drama which tiptoes quietly through the relationship of the two protags in fine style. The Whole Wide World is a chick flick which will play best with more mature audiences. (B) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the film did a good job of capturing this strange writer and his relationship with his universe.  In his mind, the heroes and gods fought epic battles across the Texas landscape.  I knew Howard's biography before I saw the film, and had read many of Lovecraft's letters.  My only complaint with the film was that it didn't bring Lovecraft into the picture.   There was a personality clash!  The Providence sage and the Texas wildman.  Yet both had much in common--including dependence on their mothers.  Lovecraft overcame his, but Howard clearly didn't.  I suppose that would have distracted from the main story, but it would have been interesting nontheless.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful and heart-wrenching","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As beautiful as a custom-made sunset, this film captures your heart in its portrayal of a master story-teller who lives more successfully on the printed page than in the unscripted world.  D'Onofrio is magnificent as the lumbering, emotionally challenged writer and Zellweger delivers an exquisitely painful performance, letting us see and feel the sympathetic agony of her affection and support.  But it is not just these characters that make the film.  The entire cast turn in well-rounded characterizations even when given the most slender of lines.  Credit director Ireland and the Texas sunsets.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful mess","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Half the time I was watching it, I was criticizing the writing, since the decisions the characters make throughout the film seem awfully quick and even arbitrary.  But through the great performances of Renee Zellweger and Vincent D'Onofrio -- and like a good Robert E. Howard story -- it all comes together and packs a solid punch at the end.  I have very little tolerance for heart-tugging moments in films, but this one had me BAWLING at the end, not just misty-eyed.  Just remember -- like all great love stories, this film does not end  "},{"Title":"wow!!","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" hey guys! I'm watching WWW right now, i bought it earlier today, this is the 1st time i have seen it. I'm a huge Vincent fan and he is so good in this role. Especially his accent. The bit that really gets me is when Howard starts cutting the grass and is so upset and is crying, that bit really gets me. Great emotional acting. Renee is so strong in this character! She's great. This film is just so beautiful and you should see it if you have not. Novalyn Price never wrote ne thing till she was in her 70's and it was about Howard! OMG!!!! THAT KISS! wow!!!! pretty full on. well i love this film and i have not even finished watching it yet. if u have seen this film and are a huge vince fan, please feel free to email me at amyrobinson88@hotmail.comBye!! "}{"Title":"An enjoyable story driven by its characters (and two good lead performances) that avoids melodrama and sentimentality","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the 1930's, teacher and would-be writer Novalyne Price meets an old friend, writer of pulp short stories Bob Price (who would later go on in life to write Conan the Barbarian). To call Bob colourful is an understatement, yet Novalyne takes to him easily and decides to make him her project of sorts and tries to allow herself to be won by him &#150; something not made easy by his lack of effort and inability to try and mix socially. However, against the advice of her friends, she starts to see more of him and accept him on his own terms. The death of Kenneth Bigley recently meant the usual public outpouring of UK grief and the usual fear of television companies to screen anything that could possibly be attacked as tasteless 'at this terrible time'! So it was that Sling Blade was dropped from the schedules at the last minutes and replaced with this film (don't know why it was deemed tasteless but there we go). With the tvm style opening credits, I nearly just decided to stop watching before it started but I decided to give it a try on the basis of the cast involved. The next obstacle to get past was the collection of Southern accents that everyone talked in, but again I decided that my dislike of this accent wasn't a fair yardstick to use to judge a movie and I stopped looking for reasons to bail out. My reward for this decision was an enjoyable and interesting little film that manages to skate a line between going over-the-top on drama or falling into sentimentality.Based on a true story (as told in Price's memoirs), this is an interesting story albeit it one that is more about the two lead characters than about any specific actions. Luckily the two are interesting, and the dynamics between them kept me watching &#150; Novalyne is clearly unsuited to Bob and we can see the problems a mile off, but yet at the same time we also see why she is drawn to him and what she is trying to do. It is hardly edge of seat stuff but it is a good story that is slowly but satisfyingly told. A major part of this is the engaging playing of the two leads. My heart sank when I heard Zellweger doing her southern drawl &#150; an accent that risks becoming a bit like the annoying party-piece of an uncle, but sticking with it her performance helped me get past that to a certain extent. She has the less showy role of the two but she manages to bring a lot out in it. D'Onoforio plays his character well &#150; lively but not over-the-top, colourful but also easy to understand the basics of who he is. The two work really well together and they make the film work as well as it does. The support cast has a few well-known faces but really the film belongs to lead two.Overall this was an enjoyable little surprise. Not the sort of film I'd usually pick to watch because they often fall into syrupy sentimentality, but this film avoids that pretty well and makes for an interesting story about the lead two characters. Nothing special but it avoids melodrama and sentiment well and is a good character-driven story that was better than I expected it to be. "},{"Title":"Lovely!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a nice surprise. Romantic, without being corny Intelligent, without ever being pretentious or high brow. Moving, without ever falling into sentimentality. Renee Zellweger's performance is, without question, her best. And Vincent D'Onofrio is just heart breakingly wonderful. What an underrated actor he is. The movie never falls into the usual common places, it keeps you longing for their love to bloom. The score is also superb. Most highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Truly amazing film","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the best movies I've ever seen. Often times Indie films can alienate more mainstream viewers, this movie transcended both genres. Vincent & Renee were amazing in this film & their chemistry on screen was almost tangible. I originally saw this movie on IFC or Bravo late one night...I can't remember which. The next day I told my husband about it & we searched the video stores & couldn't find it. We waited diligently until it was on cable again & he watched it. We were engrossed one minute & sobbing the next. The second time I saw it....it was better. Vincent D'Onofrio has to be one of, if not the best actors of his generation. He evokes such empathy, such sympathy from his viewers...or such horror, depending on what you are viewing. From the 80's I have been watching his career carefully & his choices to play, Household Saints and Happy Accidents, to mention a few keep reminding me of why I have to see his movies. And Renee Zellweger...well, what more can I say except I love her. This is truly an amazing film. Thank you Dan Ireland, Vincent D'Onofrio, Renee Zellweger, and everyone else who put this amazing work of art together. "},{"Title":"Good, but *really* depressing","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *one very slight spoiler*True stories are always double edged swords.On the one hand, you have to benefit of a quasi-objective analysis of the events therein there are subtleties of language and action that the director may not have realized/created which can give the film an entirely new level of meaning that is impossible to reach with fiction.On the other hand, you can't very well complain when a true story takes a hard corner and leaves you in a black pit of despair.  *sigh*Both of the above are true of _The Whole Wide World_.  Although Ireland's direction is certainly competent, it didn't really seem to me that he had a very good grasp of Robert E. Howard's character, choosing instead the easier route of of telling the story through Novalyne.  While this does make some narrative sense (given that she wrote the source material), the story was always supposed to be about Howard and how he approached the world.  This way, Howard comes off as much stranger than he probably should.  If you are not a person that can relate to Howard (i.e., someone with a vivid imagination and tremendous depth of feeling), much of his behavior will be a mystery, since the film does not make much of an attempt to explain it.Which brings us around to the ending of this film.  While I'll leave it to the viewer to discover the specifics, I will say that I am very tired of all these stories with beautiful, imaginative people coming to less-than-satisfactory ends.  Of course, this is based on historical fact, but that makes the events of this film that much sadder that not only can film not treat its gentle protagonists justly, but life is just as cruel.But then again, that's probably the point.  It was Howard's reason for retreating into his fantasy, and this film is supposed to provoke a similar reaction.  Hmm.  I don't suppose Ireland was counting on a huge replay value.The performances here are good.  Zellweger does her typical thing, although she's much more feisty here than usual.  D'Onofrio does a respectable job with the difficult task he's given, although I got the feeling that he really didn't know exactly where he was going with the character.I have mixed feelings about this film.  I can't in good conscience recommend it to everyone, but if you think you might be interested, give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Yawn, Yawn - Can someone wake me up when it's over!","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"16 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't bother yourself!  Don't even pick this up to read the box at the video store!  For the first hour wondering if anything was going to happen! Boring writing.  Boring Acting.  Boring scenes.  Just plain Boring!  Grab any video around it on the shelf!  It can't be any worse than this! "},{"Title":"Boring, Looonnngggg, and Boring!","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" We are Surprised at how many people said this movie was wonderful. We fast-forwarded through most of the long, drawn-out walking and driving scenes. (Similar to the movie THE War Of The Worlds.) That, and the arguments and disagreements were depressing.On the other hand, Vincent D'Onofrio did a great job portraying his character. He reminded us of my nephew.OK, now I need 10 lines of text for this submission to be accepted. That would make this comment long and drawn out, just like the movie was. And almost as boring. But that would be really hard to be more boring than the movie was. "}]