[{"Title":"What's Not To Like????!!!!?????","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"43 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I'll let everyone know that I gave this movie (worthy of a 7) a 10 just because the overall rating deserves to be A LOT higher than it is!  Secondly, everyone who gave this movie a bad rating needs to stop rating movies altogether.  What's not to like about this movie that is charming, cute, innocent, and funny??  Fran Drescher may have been type-casted right off the Nanny, but who cares!!???!!  What did you expect her to act like in the film!?!  Were you expecting an oscar worthy performance!!!???  Did you think she was the next Gwyneth Paltrow, or Julianne Moore???  If you saw the previews and have half a brain, you would have known exactly what to expect.  I had no expectations for this movie (nor should anyone have) besides a good laugh.  And that's exactly what it delivers.  Fran is absolutely perfect for the role of Joy Miller and she is even more charming and funny in this movie than Sandra Bullock is in Miss Congeniality (another great movie by all accounts, and I'm not downing the always fantastic Sandra).  You people need to STOP ANALYZING MOVIES FOR WHAT THEY'RE NOT AND LEARN TO ENJOY THEM FOR WHAT THEY ARE!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"I love it !","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't care if Timothy Dalton has a shitty accent in this movie. I don't care if Fran Drescher has a nasal voice. So what that Slovetzia doesn't exist, and the bad people are dark, gloomy western stereotypes of former eastern regimes. I don't care, as long as I enjoy watching it. I totally adore this movie. It leaves me with a giggle and a big smile on my face, and movies that do that make just as much sense to me as Schindler's List, if I'm in the mood to watch that kind of movie. I love a movie, where I can put my brain on stand by and just enjoy it. I've just received the movie today, and I know, that tonight will be chips and dip night in front of the TV. Just can't wait to watch it again. A big 10 from me for the entertainment value. "},{"Title":"An adorable romantic comedy","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is such an adorable movie.  Fran Drescher absolutely blew me away, I had no idea she was so talented -- in this movie she absolutely shines!! Her character Joy Miller is the Nanny all over again...but this time she has been hired (mistakenly) to teach the four children of a eastern-European dictator.  She has amazing comic timing and plays well of off co-star Timothy Dalton, who is a wonderful President of Slovetzia, the tiny (made-up) country that most of the movie takes place in.  He is at once a pompous and loveable character...his transformation from Beast to Man is a delight to watch.  The plot is a mixture of The Sound of Music, The King and I, Beauty and the Beast, and a kind of twisted Cinderella...but it all meshes together for an endearing (though very predictable) movie.  A change from Tim Dalton's usual dramatic/spy movie genre...who knew he could be so funny?  But he is, and the movie is adorable and I would highly recommend this if your a fan of Fran Drescher, Tim Dalton or romantic comedies in general!! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable despite its many flaws","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have never enjoyed The Nanny, but I'm a fan of Timothy Dalton.  It seems inconceivable that any casting director thought to put these two actors together, but, by some warped cosmic thing, it kind of worked in this movie. Granted, the script is predictable and borrows angles from classics from The King and I, Sound of Music and even I Love Lucy.  Yet, when I want to watch something brainless and lighthearted (admit it--we all have those moments) I'll opt for this movie. "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While I won't say that this is an excellent movie, I still like it for its irreverent sense of humor. The acting's pretty average, there seem to be so many plots going on at the same time, but it still makes for an entertaining and interesting watch, if only to see the Nanny in her first major big-screen role. She brings the trademark we know so well to the movie - her nasal voice and pre-occupation with the trivial stuff, but she also brings a kind of sensitivity we've never seen before in the Nanny series.I quite like some of the scenes - how she teaches the kids what she knows (airline miles), the massage scene, the home-coming, and a lot of others that just seem to be made just for her. "},{"Title":"Fran Drescher Shines Like Daylight in an Otherwise Clichéd Rom-Com","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'The Beautician and the Beast' follows the line of the immensely 'The Sound of Music' and Drescher's own popular sitcom 'The Nanny'. It has the usual mushiness and fluffiness that other American rom-coms have (although this one is set in Eastern Europe) and it's accompanied by a nice soundtrack. However, what really sets this one apart is the delightfully funny Fran Drescher. Her character is no different from her unique persona as Nanny's Fran Fine but even so, her wit, charisma and comic timing are perfect. Those who find her annoying in 'The Nanny' would most likely hate this movie but for me, this actress makes it somewhat likable. Timothy Dalton as the beautician (just kidding) is quite adequate (his fake accent is hilarious) and both actors share a good chemistry. The rest are just okay, mostly gap fillers. There is nothing path-breaking about this movie but if one is a fan of Ms. Drescher then why not give this a try if you've got nothing else to lose? "},{"Title":"Though I've seen better, I liked it!!!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit that, for a while anyway, I had a serious crush on Fran Drescher. Those outfits (in Joe's chauvinistic voice) OH, YEAH!!! That big '80's hair. And that voice (except when she got whiny)??? Uh-huh-huh! Uh-huh-huh!The Nanny was a good show, though not great. It was raunchy and funny, though, to me (and maybe this is me being more old-fashioned than I'll admit), raunchy sex jokes do not go together with family entertainment. Thus, I was always convinced that it was in a bad time slot. NBC doesn't show Law & Order at 800 (or 700 if you're in Mississippi like me).Nitpickiness aside, when I heard that she was doing a movie titled The Beautician and the Beast, I was quite skeptical. I didn't think that it would be any good. But I sucked up any doubts I had and saw it anyway.I have to admit that, while it's not the best, it's not the worst, either. I actually liked this movie. Granted, the movie is VERY dated (for the most part, Communism is dead), quite predictable (can you say The Nanny?) and can get downright stupid (what's with the chicken?).But it can also be funny, like when Joy, Fran's character, gets the workers to strike, in the tradition of Norma Rae, thus angering Boris Pochenko, played adequately by Timothy Dalton. And there were a lot of raunchy references to her relatives, i.e. one of her aunts having to have facial hair removed. And, without giving anything away, I thought the begining was really cute as well.Not to mention that I was really impressed with a scene near the end of the film where she stands up to Boris. To me, it sounded as if she was really acting, speaking past her quirky voice and speaking the lines with gusto. That may explain how she got a part in a Woody Allen movie, even if it's a bit part.This film isn't for everybody, especially if you're put off by Fran's voice. And, though there are no sex scenes, there are benign sexual references, not to mention mild language. Others might say bring the whole family, but I wouldn't. While *I* think she's funny (like I said before), I believe her humor is too raunchy for family entertainment. And some of her humor deals with generalizations, which may explain why you don't see her being compared to Julia Roberts, Jennifer Lopez or Rene Russo, strong women who aren't afraid to be one of the boys. "},{"Title":"Better than it sounds...","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was apprehensive when this film came on TV, but as there was nothing else on and I was bored I decided to give it a go. It began badly as I found Fran Drescher incredibly annoying, mainly due to her piercing New York accent. Timothy Dalton was fantastic in his role, and made me laugh a number of times. Ian McNeice was also quite good in what was essentially just a rehash of his role in Ace Ventura When Nature Calls. The script wasn't excellent but did the job. The film did begin to lose momentum as Timothy Dalton became less beast-ly and the film is about half an hour too long, but those are really the only bad points. This film isn't a work of art, but it provides nice escapism for two hours. 6/10.   "},{"Title":"Very Cute!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think that this was a really adorable movie.  Perfect for one of those rainy, there's nothing to do days.  I think that Fran Drescher was really lovable in this movie and Timothy Dalton, for once, seemed to take on a somewhat light-hearted role.   "},{"Title":"adorable!","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater on a hunch and it was a really cute film. The premise is very similar to Fran's Nanny role (although in this case, she's the tutor). It's clean, the laughs are consistent, and it's a great family film. I'm not saying the film certified for Oscar, but kids would love it. "}{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I though this was a fun, lighthearted movie. I expected the worst, and was surprised how much I enjoyed it. It was put together well and wasn't boring or slow moving. There were funny moments and comments that I remember still. It started out with a similar premise to the Nanny TV show, but quickly moved beyond it. Fran showed more depth of character and independence in this movie than she did (or was allowed to do) in her TV series. Throughout, she is pretty and sexy and dressed to catch attention. It's pretty much a modern fairy tail, like Cinderella, but it doesn't require much suspension of belief. She moves smoothly to charm all around her, including the audience. Timothy Dalton was OK as the Beast, but it was Fran's movie, and he might have been graciously stepping out of her way. "},{"Title":"The Nanny goes to Slovetzia","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hey, like many people, I happen to like The Nanny. I also like Fran Dresscher in The Nanny. (I don't think I need to explain this any further. A lot of people like this show.) Once in a while I like to watch light, fun, mindless movies. I suppose this all pretty well explains why I enjoyed The Beautician and the Beast.Fran plays almost the same familiar role, except instead of Mr Sheffield we have President-for-Life Pochenko of Slovetzia (Tim Dalton). He's an old school dictator and a disciplinarian as a father; however, she eventually captures his heart and gets him to change his ways. His oppressed children love her, of course. Think of Maria and Capt von Trapp. None of it is realistic, but that's part of the movie's charm. It has the same kind of humour as the television show, plus a good deal of gentle ribbing of Slavic countries and dictatorships. I watched the film on TV in Croatia, so I don't think they mind.I see this movie is rated rather poorly here on IMDb.com. It also didn't do well at the box office. Don't let this influence your decision to watch it. If you like The Nanny, you'll enjoy this movie too. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Romance Comedy!","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fran Drescher and Timothy Dalton star in this 1997 romance comedy. A beautician finds romance with a Dictator while she helps him and his children. Joy Miller (Drescher) is a beautician from New York who is soon hired to help an Eastern European Dictator, Boris Pochenko (Dalton) with his children. She teaches them history and such, but also helps Boris become a nicer leader. Joy and Boris start getting close with each other and he learns that she's a beautician. When Joy starts meddling into his business affairs, they drift apart, but eventually find their way back to each other. I've always liked this film and Fran and Timothy have good chemistry. I recommend this entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Adorable! It will please romantic comedy fans everywhere and fans of Drescher, too","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joy Miller (Fran Drescher) is a night school hair instructor in the New York City area. One evening, the classroom catches on fire and Joy saves the day, hustling everyone out of the building. Her beautiful picture ends up in the local papers. It just so happens that a minister from the eastern European country of Slovetzia is looking for a teacher for the ruler's children and he hires Joy, not realizing that she teaches cosmetology alone. Only after the two of them land in Slovetzia does the truth come out. Never mind, Joy tells the public servant, she will do her best to teach those kids. The country's leader, Boris (Timothy Dalton), however, is a no-nonsense guy who rules his family and his country with an iron fist. Indeed, Slovetzia is depressingly similar to the Soviet Union at its worst. Boris is struck by Joy's charm and beauty but insists there will be no goofing off in the classroom. The children are sweet but one daughter, especially, longs for a bit more freedom. Can Joy bring a touch of democracy and levity to the dismal country? This darling little film will please both fans of romantic comedy and those who love Drescher. If The Nanny was your cat's meow, you will adore this film that came out years before, for it is strikingly similar. Indeed, Drescher and Dalton make a dynamite combination and are very pleasing. The rest of the cast is adequately pleasant. The costumes, especially Drescher's, are quite nice and the scenery and ruling palace are lovely. As for the script, it is funny and touching and the direction has energy. Therefore, if you love those comic tales of affection, skip the beauty parlor and head to the video store instead. You can get your hair done another day but you need this little jolt of sunshine, on film, immediately. "},{"Title":"Sit back and enjoy - it's a fairytale!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, it *is* just The King and I meets The Sound of Music meets The Nanny, but what's wrong with that?  Those formulas  (formulae?) were all successful and so it this one if you sit back and enjoy it for what it is - just a fluffy romantic comedy.(To some of the other reviewers) Don't take it so seriously! It's just a fairytale!  Fran and Timothy play their parts well and look like they're having a ball. "},{"Title":"Dalton & Drescher Great Combination","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I give this movie a 10 because of the tremendous amount of comedy within the dialog, matched with the comic timing skillfully done by Dalton and Drescher. To watch them is like watching Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz in I Love Lucy. Especially when Boris (Dalton) speaks in bad sounding English and Joy (Drescher) mimics him. Dalton's transformation from beast to 'prince charming' is, as always, believable. He also gets the laughs and looks yummy at the same time. Fran is also in her element, because in a movie such as this (vs the sitcom 'the Nanny') she gets a chance to show us her serious side--and she is as believable as when she's zinging those classic comic one-liners. The movie also shows off Dalton's ferocious and highly energetic fencing skills, which is another trademark of his. The high tension built up by Dalton is only brought down by Drescher's light-heartedness and wit. It plays out extremely well with more confrontations to come. And, there's no swearing!Laughter is the best medicine to beat the blues. So, I say enjoy the fairy-tale it's meant to be and get ready to laugh out loud. By the by--if you get to watch this movie on DVD, Fran's commentary is a stream of extra laughs! "},{"Title":"This is one of my all time favorite movies!!!","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie!!! I don't know about Beauty and the Beast, or The Kng and I, but I thought the movie was a take off on The Sound Of Music another movie I love to watch. I can watch it over and over....It is so cute and funny and totally entertaining, even endearing. It is Fantasy and it is whimsical and I Loved the ending! It makes me feel good when I watch it and when I am finished watching it. I think Fran is very funny and very talented and I think it is harder to make people laugh than to make them cry and she can do both. She reminds very much of Lucille Ball. When and actor does a fine dramatic role you may admire or respect them but when they make you laugh they are your friend for life! I wish Fran would make more movies!!!! "},{"Title":"Witty and Refreshing","Date":"18 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After looking at some of the scores people gave this movie I honestly didn't think it would amount to much. However, after actually watching it I found it to be surprisingly good. Fran Drescher plays Joy Miller who is a beautician in New York City. Timothy Dalton is Boris Pochenko, a brutal tyrant of a small Eastern European country (Slovetzia) who has mistakenly hired Joy to teach his four children. His Prime Minister, Leonid Kleist (played by Patrick Malahide), insures that Boris rules with an iron fist. Joy arrives and becomes instrumental in introducing much needed change. More importantly though, she changes Boris for the better as well. Now, while this plot is extremely predictable, the comedy is anything but that as there are many surprises written into the script that are simply hilarious and I think the writer (Todd Graff) deserves a lot of credit for this. Likewise, even though Fran Drescher was nominated for a Razzie Award for her performance, I can honestly say that it was totally undeserved. I found her performance to be both witty and refreshing. I also liked the way she and Timothy Dalton worked so well together. The massage scene in particular was especially amusing. In closing, I thought this was a thoroughly enjoyable movie and well worth the time spent. "},{"Title":"This is a well written, hilarious, unique movie with a terrific cast!!!","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am Timothy Dalton's self declared #1 fan - and I adore Fran Drescher. When this movie came out I looked SO forward to seeing it as it was a film that was going to allow TImothy to show everyone else how funny he can be and what a multi-dimensional actor he is. I am also a big fan of Fran Drescher! I miss seeing her more often also. She is so beautiful and such a talent - and so very good at being funny. Neither of them disappoint in this movie. They are wonderful!Life is so full of stress, sadness, loss, tragedy now, more light hearted, comedic movies like this are needed sandwiched in to take us away and be entertained in fantasyland for a while. I love action movies and horror movies (the unrealistic ones) but we need more of this type movie thrown in the mix MORE OFTEN.This is a magical, romantic-comedy, fantasy escape - ****someone made mention the country doesn't even really exist - WHO cares the country doesn't really exist??? Neither does Oz, Narnia or MiddleEarth.****THEN SOMEone was pretty critical of Timothy's accent being very bad; Timothy does nothing bad, including accents. BUT, IF THIS COUNTRY DOESN'T EXIST, HOW CAN YOU KNOW THE ACCENT IS BAD??? I thought it was wonderful. Have you ever tried to make up an accent of a nonexistent country? o)How long can Joy Miller carry off her charade, and does she keep getting out of ALL the messes she gets herself involved in or does she get caught? Some of TD'S and FD's humorous scenes ARE reminiscent of I Love Lucy, but much better and priceless. You keep wondering when is this cranky guy going to catch on to the truths surrounding him, and what in the world will he do when he does!? There are a few close calls, so to speak (that are hilarious)There is a very lovable chicken in the movie, a surprisingly fine little actor herself, very cute ~ with some adorable scenes. Trust me. Its touching, worrisome at times...and cute, I swear she gets the most precious expressions.-With all due respect and targeting no one in particular, it seems in our world today many people have become so jaded they can't enjoy a great, light hearted hilarious romantic comedy that is CLEAN, without calling it cheesy or corny. IT IS NEITHER. I choose not to believe in those concepts. People have just gotten so much more afraid to show emotion and care for each other and we need more of that and perhaps more movies like this would unconsciously encourage it.Timothy is at his usual flawless best, playing both sides of the ill tempered dictator, whose ego seems large enough to have its own zip code you can't get to from here; and who thinks things are just hunky dory with his people, but are they?; to his other self -the gorgeously handsome man,with that deep sexy voice, which is more apparent when he isn't yelling or fussing about something.(And I HAVE to say he is handsome both with mustache and sans mustache). I think the movie is written very well, and when he first starts to become- challenged by Joy Miller's lessons for HIM, and goes out amongst his people - well, just wait and see-its truly a priceless, clueless moment for him, (We get to watch him as Tim pulls the cluelessness of this guy off SO well, chest puffed up, strutting, smiling and waving as if he does it every day...) And quite a shock for the people.Fran is terrific and gorgeous too, and I think the pairing of those two was sheer genius and they make a beautiful couple in heart, spirit, and yes,look. I know I was jealous of lucky Fran AND the mythical couple and it took me away to that place all women who love romantic stories love to go - where YOU are the female lead character!This is a GREAT MOVIE AND ITS NOT JUST A CHICK FLICK EITHER, GUYS - if you like comedy I recommend it to you also and there IS Fran. Kids will like this movie too and I feel it IS of family movie quality. "},{"Title":"Just routine entertainment","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What do you expect? It's just entertainment business. And being such it works. Fran Drescher has her fans coming from The Nanny. Timothy Dalton gives the touch of quality acting and leading handsome actor prestige. Ken Kwapis - the director - has an expertize in TV series (including the famous ER among others). The plot is a blended mixture of The King and I, The Sound of Music, The Beauty and the Beast, The Nanny,etc., all following the proved successful formula of routine entertainment for masses. So, what do we get? A typical USA yarn showing how easy things can be solved in movies when some naive good looking Brooklyn girl strikes the heart of a stupid foreign dictator. Flattering money worth for spectators who just want to have a couple of laughs watching familiar faces - and situations - on the screen.  "}{"Title":"Fran and the Beast.","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Beautician and the Beast (1997) Dir Ken Kwapis / Cast Fran Drescher, Timothy Dalton, Ian McNiece, Lisa Jakob, Patrick Malahide Formula satire settling for someone who brings beauty to another. It opens with an animated dream sequence with a young Princess under a spell until a Prince kisses her awake. All is well until the first words emerge from her mouth. It is that whiny voice that startles the Prince and then startles the film's heroine awake to reality. Fran Drescher stars as a beautician mistaken for a science teacher and she is spirited to London. Timothy Dalton plays an authority figure using strict measures to gain respect. His daughter is one of her pupils but he cannot communicate with her because he ordered the arrest of her patriotic boyfriend. Recycled material by director Ken Kwapis who is given a few, but very few funny moments. Drescher is reciting her sitcom role right down to her wardrobe in a role that has been played by countless actresses with regular voices. She looks fetching in her various flashy clothes but had the screenplay had as much attention then perhaps it might not have sucked. Dalton is as stiff as a board playing another role that never seems to be interesting. Also wasting time are Ian McNiece as Drescher's adviser who obviously didn't advise her against this film. Lisa Jakob as Dalton's daughter is another case of cardboard cut-outs. The title is the most creative aspect. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"A one and a half our episode of The Nanny","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Now what to make of this movie. I have only watched five minutes of the pilot episode of the nanny, as well as the closing minutes of a number of episodes and have decided that I don't particularly like it. The Beautician and the Beast is basically the Nanny made into a movie, with a few things altered. She isn't sacked from a beauty parlour, but is brought into the home of a really rich man (actually an Eastern European dictator) as a nanny. The movie is quite funny in parts but a really do not think much of Fran Dresure (sp?), especially how I heard the comment that her character in this movie is exactly the same as her character in the nanny.This movie makes numerous assumptions about 'decadent American society' in which it destroys. Rather it attacks the eastern European dictatorship and makes America look like a wonderful place. The promiscuous American is destroyed with Fran's character she is not interested in guys until the right one comes along, and it is obvious that it was going to be Pochenko (Timothy Dalton), and as the movie draws to the close the idealistic Hollywood ideal of love is emphasised in the most sickening way.The movie blatantly has a go at how these communist nations allegedly altered history to suit themselves. Stalin allegedly did this to make him look like he was really close to Lenin when he was not. America subtly does this with their claims that World War 1 started in 1917 and World War II begins in 1942, the years they became involved in both wars. This is done more as a joke than as an attack, because now communist has gone and everybody can live happily in the marvelous freedom that a democracy brings. Yet Fran is extremely cynical about democratic politicians as she quotes they're politicians, you can't trust them. Beautician and the Beast is really a remake of Sound of Music with the music replaced with comedy. The movie blatantly steals from the original with the clothes made out of sheets. There are a lot of similarities, a nanny coming in to take care of a very powerful man's children. In Sound of Music he was a Nazi commander while in this movie he is a communist dictator.The last interesting thing to note is when Pochenko is addressing the peasants from a balcony. They scream and cheer at his words. He then walks into the building and Joy Miller (Fran Desure) walks out and thrusts her arms into the air and the crowd cheers. This strikes Pochenko with the fact that it is not him that they cheer, but rather anybody who stands there. Fear is thrust onto people whereas respect is earned. "},{"Title":"Beautician & the Beast-Nanny Goes to Eastern Europe **1/2","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fran Drescher, as nasal as ever, is mistaken for a science teacher and is whisked off to an East European country to instruct the 4 children of widower dictator Timothy Dalton.This is definitely a ripoff of the television series The Nanny. Even Phyllis Newman, who briefly appears as her mother, tries to imitate the great Renee Taylor's Sylvia in the television show. I expected Grandma Yetta to come out but that does not occur.The story is basically where our beautician (Fran) softens the heart of the ruthless dictator. He learns about life from Drescher and the two are finding love until a political situation threatens to end all that.The film is routine in nature.To paraphrase the song from the television showShe was a beautician in the borough of Queens.Until a fire broke out in one of those crushing scenes.What was she to do, where was she to go, she was not working?So to Eastern Europe she flew when she was thought to be a teacher. The dictator, the beast, was quite a creature.She had style, she had class, that's why she became his lover. "},{"Title":"Surprised me.","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have never been able to watch Fran Drescher for any length of time. That being said, this movie surprised me. I actually watched it and enjoyed it. Once I figured out what it was, I didn't have any great expectations. This movie is not meant to be earth shattering but merely a pleasant diversion. That it was. Fran actually did some acting at times. Of course, I understand that this is mostly an extension of The Nanny but I never watched the show all the way through so I wasn't making comparisons. It had some funny moments and the Yuri character was very enjoyable. All in all, I enjoyed the movie and would recommend it for anyone who would like a pleasant diversion and not be forced to think a lot.  "},{"Title":"A Real Surprise","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Frankly, I normally can't stand Fran Drescher! Having said that, I was surprised to discover that this was a thoroughly enjoyable movie. Really good stuff in the sappy love story department. OK, so I'm a sucker! Worth a watch! "},{"Title":"Cheesy, predictable...but I liked it!","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie is cheesy, unbelievable, and poorly acted.  Fran Drescher was not at her best, and Timothy Dalton's performance was substandard, though given the script he had to work with, it probably wasn't his fault.  For some reason though, I really enjoyed this movie--when I wasn't groaning at the stupidity.  I think the film had potential, but it was lost somewhere in the making.  All in all, it was worth watching if you are a Timothy Dalton fan, or you like a romantic comedy.  Just don't expect a stellar performance from anyone but the peasants in the movie! "},{"Title":"Unbelievably..........??","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You have to admit.....the cover of this movie is very enticing. Fran Drescher showed some extremely good acting......okay, it might be a bad movie, but she is possibly the nicest, light-hearted  person to watch. The location of Eastern-Europe was unbelievably depressing. All dark and big clouds, which I didn't like. Timothy Dalton is a real boring actor. God, man, lighten up, your country's economy can't be that bad! And poor, poor, poor Lisa Jakub, as Katrina, she started with such promise as Lydia in Mrs. Doubtfire, now her talent seems to be all wasted. She is such a good actress, but her extremely phony accent does not show any talent. This movie boasts two things. 1.. a few nice outfits (all Fran Dreschers) 2.. a few funny lines which you know you heard somewhere before. "},{"Title":"Terrific!!!","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this was one of the cutest movies ever, plus it's a good movie to watch on Family Night.  It's very clean cut, and innocently funny with no sex jokes or anything like that.  It's light hearted and leaves you with a smile on your face.  So, for families who do have Family Night, rent this one.  It's something the whole family can enjoy! o) "},{"Title":"The Nanny goes to Eastern Europe","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Nanny is a great sitcom and I love it.  But this movie was just The Nanny set in Eastern Europe.  Predictable but cute.  I liked Timothy Dalton's character because it was a different look at him.  The character was gruff but he played him a comic twist which he looked like he enjoyed.  I would like to see Fran Dresicher in something besides The Nanny especially since the series in now over. "},{"Title":"Go Nanny","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nanny was awesome in this movie.  It was very enjoyable to watch and had some good family morals.  I would say it wasn't the best movie but it ain't the worst movie either.  It is not that exciting to watch and it not a show I can watch over and over again.  But over all it's an okay movie.  I would recommend you to watch this show just once and see if you like it. "}{"Title":"The Nanny goes to Europe","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, Hollywood lets Fran Drecher take her Jewish girl schtick to another country. She takes the job of teacher to a despot's children, and all the predictable jokes and  predicaments follow neatly in their prescribed order. I've seen worse, but it wasn't a very watchable film. Just stay home and watch The Nanny reruns.  "},{"Title":"The Nanny meets The King And I?","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" She was there to sell make-up, but the Eastern European dictator saw more.She had style, she had flair, she was there - that's when she became - the teacher!Exactly the same sort of Miss Fine!! situations.I haven't seen the whole thing, but I'm assuming that he'll tell her he loves her, and then will take it back. She'll re-mould him from being a stere0typical stuffed shirt and everyone will love her. The kids will fall in love with her and she'll be their rock. Eventually the dictator will stop living in denial and finally marry her, go through a few formal embarrassing situations and in the end they'll have boy and girl twins.I just miss the desperate dictator's assistant, her banter with the cheeky butler and the mother who drops in every five minutes to eat something. "},{"Title":"The Beautician IS the Beast!!!!","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was full of compassion when I saw how poor Mr. Dalton had to act against Ms. Drescher, who seems to be unable to show (we better don´t use the word acting here)anything else than Nanny Fine, or better herself. It comes near to heroism, when I imagine that Mr. Dalton had to stand close besides when Ms. Drescher opened her mouth, and THIS VOICE came out. Well, it sounds like a terrific mixture of tonsillitis, adenoids and a tin bucket. Although I could have changed the language of my DVD to german, because Ms. Drescher´s german voice is not half the drama than her own, but I felt a kind of paralyzed, like in a horror film, when you know that it´s not to stand but you can´t close your eyes. Although Mr. Dalton is one of the most excellent actors we have, I found two points 1. The scenes with that sleeping youngest son This was more than acting - it was a natural born father! I loved that, because it´s impossible to act this intensive warmth when you don´t have it inside.2. This kissing-scene with Ms. Drescher It was obviously hard to act this scene, because it looked like he wanted to be on north pole this moment. And I can understand it!All in all, the story is an all-american fairy-tale, and ok for a rainy sunday afternoon.Oh, Ms. Drescher Talk to the hand! (It´s got no ears!!!) "},{"Title":"This is the BEST move I seen!","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie I have seen! When I seen this move I started to like Fran Dresher. her sit-com the nanny is also a good one but this movie is so funny. just the way she puts herself in the movie really makes her a star. if you're planning to see a movie go rent one the beautician and the beast I am telling you this is the best movie EVER! ................ well  that's my opinion. "},{"Title":"Suffering from sitcom disease","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This project was cast like a television sitcom, directed like a television sitcom, and the actors act as though it is a television sitcom.  The results might have been fine for the small screen ... but on the big screen the results are at time painful to watch. "},{"Title":"American intervention in Slovetzia","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think someone found the right word to describe this film earlier inoffensive. Even Eastern European dictators might find it hard to find much to complain about. Indeed, so lame is this film I was amazed to learn it was intended for a cinema release, although in my part of Slovetzia it seems to have gone straight to video. Actually, this is a pretty harmless way of spending an hour and a bit if you can accept that this is basically a vehicle for Fran Dreschler, and that, presumably, she has some fans in America who both like her and know who she is.Dreschler plays a beautician who gets mistaken for the new tutor of an eastern European dictator and ends up importing consumerism and the American way of life by stealth to the previously contented communist kingdom of Slovetzia. I say communist kingdom because on the strength of this film some Americans don't seem to know the difference between the two. For those of you unfamiliar with Slovetzia, when Errol Flynn was alive it used to be called Ruritania, but later changed its name under communism. These days it is populated entirely by British actors, some of whom attempt mildly Russian accents. You may be as surprised as I was to learn that the tyrannical ruler of Slovetzia is none other than Timothy Dalton. You may remember him from the 1980s when he used to be James Bond. At one point he was even well regarded as a serious Shakespearian actor. What happened to him after leaving the secret service, you might ask? Well, I don't really know, but it can't have been pretty. Somehow he ended up playing second fiddle to Fran Dreschler. I know, a sad end for a man who saved the world at least twice. "},{"Title":"A pathetic dried-up, tried to be, boring, comedy","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No plot, bad acting, no character build-up, can hardly be summarized, weak, slow, stupid, sad, pathetic, annoying, wretched, no details, no main-point, uninteresting, did i mention PATHETIC, beyond dull, montonous scenes, unthoughtout, poorly planned, scary, should-have-never-ever-been-made, watching the blossom of a daisy would have been more exciting, shallow, should be banned from the view of the public, unexciting, and retarded. Although i love Fran Drecsher as an actress, she should have never been cast as Joy Miller.  "},{"Title":"Whats Not to Like - Virtually  the whole film.","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is the epitome of the moronic trash that Hollywood is bent on producing. Humor for those who cannot think. It is just another adventure of the illiterate nanny from Brooklyn, that is always more boring than the previous adventure, who should have been fired years ago. I won't spoil the work for you, watching it will spoil your day for you with much more class. I ranks right down there with the garbage from the Wayans brothers, John De Bello of Killer Tomatoes fame, Santa with Muscles, and like visual vomit. I give it a 2 and a half. I could actually go lower but it is hard to believe that there are actually efforts in cinematography that are much worse than Fran Drescher in her over played nanny role. Woody Allen, Monty Python, Marx Brothers, Peter Sellers, now there are the experts of comedy worth watching. "},{"Title":"Beastly","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I suppose there's something comical about a Russian Jewess singlehandedly reinventing a  Warsaw pact fiefdom. Projects like this are structured so in two parts. The first is a simple situation that leads  to the man running to the woman at the end. That part is immutable.Along the way, we are supposed to be charmed and amused, and it is here that we could  on expertise. Alas, there isn't a laugh or sweet moment in the whole thing.I think Fran's widow's peak is fake.Ted's evaluation 1 of 3 -- You can find something better to do with this part of your life.  "},{"Title":"I actually had pain in my stomach when I wached this movie","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is like one of the worst movies I ever wached. The Nanny actress, her voice was killing me ,how can somebody have such a voice. Its like somebody was hammering nails in my head when she spoke. Mr Dalton,my 2nd fave James Bond was probably drunk when he read this script becasue .....oh my GOD.I give this movie ** out of **********. Because - The title is soooooooooo off and not even funny - The lead actrees is Frane whatever her name is - The story is horrible _ And the only reason I gave it 2 ** is because of DaltonDO NOT GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"One of the Worst Comedies I've Ever Seen","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How do you know when a comedy is bad? First obvious answer is - when you do not laugh. Improved answer - when your only laughs are about the way the movie is made. 'Beautician and the Beast' comes very close to this. The film starts actually from a good idea, kind of a remake of 'The King and I' in a post-Communist European dictature. However what could have been the subject of a good comedy with romantic and political nuances is completely spoiled by the series of not funny gags, previsible plot line, and stereotype characters lacking any comical value. However, the bigger harm is done by the incredibly bad acting. Fran D. is competing for the worst acting that I have ever seen on a big screen. Her acting is beyond the lower level one would expect in TV sitcoms. The rest of the cast are just bad, and look kind of uneasy to have been involved in this film. I felt robbed of my two hours at the end of the film, and sorry not to have gone to sleep earlier (or chosen a different channel). "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen !!!  SPOILERS","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERSI had to have been warned by the title of this piece of work,yet I was bored that night and there was nothing else on TV so I thought Why Not? it can't be that bad? WRONG!BRR,it still gives me the chills thinking back of it.Everything about this movie sucksthe acting,the story,everything!First of all the actingFran Drescher is probably one of the most annoying people ever and not only because of that nagging voice.She just can't act! And they probably chose her for the role since she did nothing more in that terrible sitcom The Nanny and maybe cause she should be beautiful.(NOT!) Timothy Dalton then.Not a bad actor,yet in this movie he puts on an accent that makes no sense at all.It always freaks me out that those Hollywood movies use those over the top accents for Russians or Germans or whatever.It is quite insulting to the natives of those countries,if you ask me.The story is even worse,cause there actually ain't any! Woo,an American chick goes to Slovetzia (!?!?!?) to brainwash a so called dictator and the entire country in the Western ways.Just like Bush does nowadays in Iraq (only Saddam was a real dictator). The tale offers no surprises at all and ends with the two lovebirds kissing on the street,how sweet (uch,uch).Yet,the way that Ken Kwapis (a really legendary director) shows us the way that Eastern Europe lives is extremely narrow minded and very insulting,almost barbaric. Everybody in Slovetzia is an idiot yet the holy American girl saves the entire country with her capitalistic ways.No wonder that a lot of non-western people hate America,just look at this movie.By the way I don't hate America,I just hate the Bush-government!The cliches in this movie were too much for me.The dictator(a bad Stalin look-a-like),the American girl who changes it all,the children who want to become like her. Every cliche of the McCarthy era are shown without any shame.The witch hunter would be proud!For a close look at the egocentric and narrow minded look on the world by some Americans,watch this movie.1/10 (Currently number 4 in my bottom top 10 list) "},{"Title":"What the ****?","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry that I had to give this such a high rating but there were no negative integers available. How do I describe it? Roget doesn't have enough synonyms for execrable. Hell had to build an addition for anyone associated with this film and I fear my and my friend's fate for having contributed to the profits of this dross. And those are the high points. Do not, I repeat, do not see this movie, write to your state representative, governor, or grand poobah, and implore them to have this removed from video stores and late, late movie showings. You have been warned, I can't be held accountable for anyone renting and viewing it in its entirety! "}]