[{"Title":"Don't damn it just coz you don't get it.","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"113 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an very Australian film built for a particular sense of humour. Having lived in both Sydney and Melbourne, I feel I can say that this will appeal more to the Melbourne than the Sydney sense of humour.Forget The Crocodile Hunter, Nicole Kidman or Russel Crowe. This is a lot closer to your typical Australian.Reading the other comments, two things surprised me.1) That anybody outside Australia, the UK, NZ or Ireland actually got this movie. To those Americans who praised it, thank you for taking the time to appreciate something outside your normal experiences.and2) The ferocity with with those who didn't get it damned the movie.The Castle is very very clever. Yes, there are references to wogs and lebs, but if given how that's exactly how a large percentage of these ethnic groups refer to themselves, they are terms without power and thus are rarely used in a racist sense. Melbourne is a wog city. It has the largest Greek population outside of Greece and is the third largest Greek city in the world. It also feature a huge population of first, second or third generation Italians. Some of my ex-coworkers sounded like they were straight out the Godfather. Then there are the lebs and the polacks and and a great mix of European Cultures.Wogs. The lot of them. )To reduce the movie to laughing at the lack of intelligence in the family or to picking on racial minorities (not that the wogs are a minority in Melbourne), is to miss the point entirely. If you don't live in Aus, I can fully understand why this would be the case.But simply because a movie is a outside your understanding or experience or doesn't fit your personal expectations of what is funny  it no reason to condemn it. Once you get more sophisticated than Beverly Hills Cop, you are not going to carry 100% of the audience, and the audience shouldn't expect that it would. (Notable exceptions exist.. Dead Poets' Society immediately comes to mind)Personally, I like movies is one that makes a social comment, or those that a rift in society and stir informed debate. The Castle is a reflection on the Australian Dream, if such a thing exists, which is that everybody should get A fair go. This is streets apart from the American dream of riches beyond imagination at the expense of everything else, and highlights the great difference between the two cultures. "},{"Title":"Hilarious one liners and self deprecating humor.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"70 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was quite a surprise, and a pleasant one at that. To be honest, I would probably never have rented nor watched this movie if broadcast, based on the amateurish look of the video cover and the ads. My reaction to it, before seeing it was that it was another movie slapped together to piggyback onto the success of another movie with the same actor/director/theme etc.etc. while the fire was hot. But, a friend borrowed it from the library, and the video was sitting there, so I decided to watch it. Was I happily surprised! The one liners make this movie, if you pay attention and catch them all, this movie has many a belly laugh. It was true to life too, I KNOW these people, whether they come from Australia or Arkansas, they're out there, and this is their reality. Remove the accents, put a few non working appliances in the front yard, a car up on cinder blocks, and you have the American version. A very nice surprise for me, if you like humor that doesn't insult your intellect, you'll like this movie. Many a memorable line in it too. I would disagree with others who have commented on the profanity in this movie. In this case there is very little profanity for profanity's sake, it's usually very well timed and ads to the storyline, like when he passes the barrister the note in court.  "},{"Title":"In praise of low-key brilliance","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"59 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies, like This Is Spinal Tap, that appears to aim low but taps into a certain subculture so precisely that it is elevated into something wonderful.As a pom living in Sydney, I always insist that all overseas visitors watch this film in order to get Australia and Australians. The Kerrigan family are easy to mock, but qualities of togetherness, moral courage, unpretentiousness and un-PC earthiness embody a great strand of the national character and warm them to us. Most of all, though, The Castle is just plain funny. You'll find yourself using the catchphrases over and over again, and you'll smile every time you do it. It's just one of those films. A classic.  "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"51 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every once and while you find yourself watching a movie you have heard nothing about.  A film with no A-Listed actors, no director with a treasure trove of awards and the sheer name of the films title at an office water cooler would result in blank stares and crickets scratching their hind legs in the background.  Such was the case with the 1997 Australian gem, The Castle.Directed by Rob Sitch, who went on to help another underachieving treasure with The Dish, the story is about an Australian family's struggle to keep their home in lieu of being given a compulsory notice from the government that the airport is expanding where their house presently stands.  Although I try not to be simplistic and sum up an entire plot in as little as one sentence, really, that is all you need you know to enjoy this independent comedy.The family is played by a host of unknowns.  Michael Caton, Anne Tenney, Stephen Curry, Anthony Simcoe, Sophia Lee and Wayne Hope play Darryl, Sal, Dale, Steve, Tracy and Wayne Kerrigan.  The family lives a simple life and enjoys their time together to the fullest.  They complement each other at each dinner table, they watch television as a family unit and they spend their time discussing items listed for sale in the trades papers.  Their sister just got married and other than the eldest son being in jail for a crime the family holds no grudges, things could not be better.So when the government sends notice that they must leave their house for the airport expansion, they agree not to go down without a fight and they illicit the help of other street families and a local barrister that has no business defending in Federal Court.  You might think this all sounds very serious for a comedy plot line, but it's the exact opposite.  The story begins with a long narration from the youngest son who reflects on how proud he is of his family.  He talks about how each member bring a unique talent to the unit and how the father figure is the one that is full of positive reinforcement. The narration and visuals surrounding his description are Australian humor at its best.  Whether we are laughing at the fathers adoration and praise of simple tasks like the scooping of ice cream from a tub or the wonderment of family members over an invention of a motorcycle helmet with a brake light on the back, we marvel at the sheer naivety of the family and what it deems to be important.The best way to covey this functional family unit is to describe it as a family of Woody Boyd's from Cheers or a litter of Joey characters from Friends.  They all utter words we would deem obtuse, but it is all in good fun and it comes across as simple people simply observing their surroundings and commenting on how they interact with the world.  As example, when Dale Kerrigan is speaking of the family's fame after taking the matters to court, he narrates, `Dad said it was funny how one day you're not famous, and the next day you are. Famous. And then you're not again.'  There speech is entirely primitive, but funny in the same vein.To go into more detail about the film would give away too much and this film must really be viewed and enjoyed without expectation.  You may not belly laugh at any time during the short 84 minute running time, but I doubt you won't spend time shaking your head in reaction to something a Kerrigan family member utters with a &#145;I can't believe he just said that' notion. So I recommend The Castle.  I recommend it with pause.  It is an above average comedy that was made for less money than the cost of the Matrix end credits (They used the family name Kerrigan so they could use Kerrigan trucks during the shoot), but it can teach us a lot about the family unit.  Here is a group of simpletons that love each other, respect each other and will do anything to preserve their &#145;home'.   What better lesson is there than that?  "},{"Title":"Shocking!  Absolutely Shocking!","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"50 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a shocking movie. Shocking in the sense that it's centered around a family that genuinely loves each other. It came across as such an odd concept in this day and age that I thought at first that there must be a catch - could the family be cannibals? Zombies? A cult of pagan jaywalkers? But no, they were simply a family in absolutely the best sense of the word. The conflict of the movie arises from the fact that the airport bordering their loving home wants to expand and uses some Australian law that grants them the right to buy out their neighbors without the neighbors having any sayso in the matter. Well this just won't do and so the plot is set into motion when the quirky homeowner decides to fight the ruling with his reluctant friend, a probate attorney who is woefully unprepared to take on the big guns in law, but who nonetheless feels obligated to help his friends no matter what the obstacle. Overall the movie has such charm, such style and such love that, by films end, you want to be adopted by the family, quirks and all. An excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant movie - definitely my all-time favourite comedy.","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"43 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just loved everything about this movie. This is how comedy films should be made. It's just a really beautifully scripted and perfectly acted film and there are just so many extremely funny scenes in it that it's hard to pick out a favourite.It would have been so easy to ruin this movie by overacting, as happens in many American comedies, but everybody gets it just right and the end result is that rare thing - a perfect movie! The Kerrigan family home is under threat from the local airport authorities who want to use the land their house is built on to extend the airport. Their father, Darryl Kerrigan, played brilliantly by Michael Caton, vows to fight them all the way and engages a local lawyer, Dennis Denuto (played by Tiriel Mora), to help him fight the case in the courts. Unfortunately, the lawyer is a small-time criminal defender who has no knowledge of property rights or constitutional law - but this doesn't bother Darryl since he has complete faith in Dennis' ability to save his home.The film follows the Kerrigans battles through the various courts and contains some of the funniest and most heart-warming courtroom scenes that I've ever seen. Everyone should see this movie! "},{"Title":"Funnier than Spinal Tap?","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is undoubtedly one of the funniest films ever made, and needs to be considered alongside This is Spinal Tap for consistent and enduring brilliance.  That said, if (as another reviewer has said here) you haven't laughed after 5 minutes, just give up - it isn't for you.While Tap has muted backhanded affection for heavy rock while simultaneously ripping into its absurdities, The Castle completely LOVES its characters as much as it makes them look utterly ridiculous.  The entire cast are superb, there are a hundred quotable lines, and the simple story may seem clichéd, but is nevertheless executed to warm-hearted perfection.  A special nod should go to Tiriel Mora as inept solicitor Dennis Denuto, who has the ability to make you cry with laughter on the 10th viewing.No family has less taste or less of a clue about, well, anything than the Kerrigans.  And yet by the end, there is no family you'd rather belong to.This film, most definitely, is going straight to the pool room.  "},{"Title":"Thoroughly charming characters, and  superb detail.","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The plot is very standard, predictable fare, and frankly, from what I'd heard through word of mouth, I was afraid that this would be a MIRAMAX formula feel good picture like The Full Monty, or Little Voice. Well, I'm very glad to be able to say that it isn't. This is the real thing, and it is the character of the family, all their quirks, and the small touches that makes this a great comedy. I have no doubt this will be a film that I'll revisit again and again. How many films do you see that, the next day a number of lines, and bits still playback in your head? If you like films like This Is Spinal Tap, and the other Christopher Guest films, and like characters from Fargo, I'd recommend The Castle. It's a charming little gem. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Australian film","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Of all the excellent comedies the vastly underrated Australian film industry makes, this is the only one which I insist that every single friend I make from overseas must watch.This is the quintessential Aussie film - a simple story about a family trying to keep things the way they are, not afraid to have a go at those in power who think they would like to develop these people. It's brilliant.Basic plot The Kerrigan household is a happy one, but a knock on the door one day changes that. Faced with a compulsory acquisition notice, the family's patriarch decides to take on the system, and to prove for once and for all that a man's home is his castle.The jokes are funny, but are very Aussie-centric. I'm really surprised at the amount of positive feedback in these reviews from non Aussies, I've always felt that this is one movie which requires a 'native speakin' translator' if you are to get all the jokes! (And tend to recommend overseas folk watch The Dish, made by the same film team but is far more accessible and wider in scope than the very narrowly aimed Castle, which is really just driven by Australian humour, language and colloquialisms).A true gem, very vibrant movie. For anyone who grew up in a similar location (not next to an airport, but in a 'bogan', working class suburb or small town) it will remind you of so many things you saw as a child. Profanity? Get over it, that's how we talk! "},{"Title":"Not really a review, rather a correction...","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Roland E Zwick felt compelled to write a rather scathing review of The Castle and how it failed to meet one major requirement for a comedy... it was not funny.  Well, that is fine and I can accept the fact that maybe his idea of what constitutes humour is seemingly at odds with the vast majority of voters on IMDB, however I do think that he should get a few facts straight before he makes comments about so called influences he has attributed to this film.  Roland statedThe Castle, a highly praised Australian farce, is a decidedly minor, lackluster and virtually laughless installment in the recently very popular genre known as the offbeat working class comedy. This vain attempt to mine the territory exploited so successfully a few years back in The Full Monty, mistakes quirkiness for humor, so much so that it is not overstating it to say that there is nary a laugh in the film's entire (and blessedly brief) 84 minute running time.Unfortunately, if Roland had bothered to do his homework just a little better, he would have noticed that The Castle released in Australia 10th April 1997 and the US 7th May 1997 does actually predate The Full Monty which was released in the UK on 27th October, in Australia on the 16th October 1997 and the US on the 13th August 1997.  As this seemed to be something that affected his judgement (his use of the term vain attempt was a rather strong condemnation), I felt it was an error that needed to be put right. "}{"Title":"Funniest and best Australian film I've seen to this date","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My age 13The Castle is the story of Daryl Kerrigan, a tow-truck driver from Melbourne, who loves his house, which he calls a home and a castle.  Living next-door to the airport has never been a problem for him and his family, until now.  The airport wants to expand and is forcing Daryl's family and their neighbours out of their houses with a compulsory acquisition which Daryl will not stand for.  He will go to court and fight for his right to stay in his home.  This goes all the way to the high court.One of the funniest films I have ever seen, The Castle has a good plot and courageous story.  You will never be bored because the jokes keep coming. Acting performances are mainly good, but some are just fairly average.  I recommend The Castle to everyone of any age group except small children as there is a bit of coarse language.Australian Classification M 15+ Medium Level Coarse LanguageRating 80 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Slow at first, but builds to fantastic finish!","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I paid full price at a movie theater (something I rarely do). For the first half hour I thought I had wasted my money. The humor at the beginning is dry and silly. But as this movie progresses, the plot becomes important, not just the jokes. The characters are developed nicely and and you begin to take their side. The music is an excellent selection of classic rock tunes, such as Hold Your Head Up, and other good ones.By the end of the movie, I was laughing and cheering so hard I had tears coming down my face and I was falling out of my seat. The rest of the theater had the same reaction, and after the movie we all walked out with great big grins on our faces.It's the story of a little guy and his family standing up to a rich corporation that is trying to legally force them out of their home (their castle). He stands up to them and tells them to shove it.I liked the movie so much that I bought the video, and my family and I have watched it many times, always laughing and cheering for the Kerrigans.I was somewhat surprised to see the negative reviews of this movie. I recommend it highly to anyone who likes to cheer for the underdog. There is some strong language that I wouldn't recommend for children. But there is no cheap sexual humor, and no gratuitous violence. I guess some people just can't appreciate a movie without these. This movie is just straightforward, honest comedy with an excellent theme. Look this movie up and see it. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not just for Australians!!!!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although this is an Australian film I must respectfully disagree with the other reviewer. I am an American and I absolutely loved this film! I have never been to Australia but I completely fell in love with every aspect of this movie. If you are a fan of over the top physical comedy, a la Jim Carrey, you may not care for The Castle. But if you like films that rely on actors to masterfully deliver subtle comedic dialogue then this is one not to miss. I found the Kerrigans to be absolutely endearing and the recurring jokes a treat. The Castle is a film that is not only funny but poignant as well. Maybe its just me, but the Aussies that made this film totally get this American's sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Going to Bonnie Doon!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie!  My family loved it.  My friends loved it.  My co-workers loved it.  Even though none of us have ever been to Australia we somehow all managed to understand about 99% of the humor in this very funny and lovable film.  As perplexing as this may seem to some of the Americans who didn't like it, or give it half a chance, one only needs a rudimentary knowledge of Australian culture or a modicum of intelligence about life outside the US to enjoy The Castle.Yes, the Kerrigans are tacky.  Yes, they are not the brightest people on God's earth.  And no one is going to accuse Darryl Kerrigan of having an eye for real estate.  But they are decent folk who look out for one another and their friends, and for this reason we come to root for them. Refreshingly, the movie gets big laughs from its quirky characters and not from crude sight gags like some movies I could mention.Who cares if it didn't play well in the States?  This is Spinal Tap didn't do well at the box office either, and it's one of the funniest films ever made.  The Castle, for me, goes down as one of the funniest films of the 1990's.How much do jousting sticks go for, Dad?  Not more than 250.  "},{"Title":"this one's going straight to the pool room!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this movie is one of those gems that will affect your use of language. The cast -even the smallest roles- are gifted and hilarious. It's unfortunate that movies like these get put into the rarely opened box of 'foreign comedies.' Audiences stateside who can't easily find this title are deprived of monumental one-liners and brilliant performances by everyone involved.One worries about some 'intrepid' type attempting to re-make this film in the U.S. It's easy to imagine executives wanting to translate the magic to more known U.S. actors. But while the humor itself is hardly parochial, the cast displays such a tight sense of comic timing that duplication seems hard,if not impossible. 'The Office' comes to mind... "},{"Title":"Brilliant Australian comedy","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great comic film produced in Australia.  Apparently it didn't do so well overseas, though I would have thought the basic themes of the trials and tribulations of suburbanite living, and the small man battling the large corporation would have had some universal relevance.For those not familiar with the Australian sense of humour, this could possibly be described as similar to the US tv series Home Improvement (at least the early seasons when it was more farcically funny).<Spoiler warning!>A lot of the humour comes from the way some extraordinary information is presented in a very deadpan, matter-of-fact style.  One of my favourite moments is when Kerrigan says that they had a soil sample done of their backyard a while ago.  There's a major pause, then he says casually  Have you ever heard of lead?Another brilliant moment comes during a courtroom scene when the incompetent lawyer tries to argue his case on the basis of a vibe.  (a slight dig at some of the amazing legal arguments used on some earlier movies and tv shows worldwide).I think what makes this a truly brilliant film, and one that puts it way ahead of many similar low budget comedies it the great way it manages to put across some farcically comic moments, while still giving the characters some heartfelt sincerity.  The character make wild assumptions and total misreadings of the situation, yet they do it with a lot of heart and conviction.  THEY believe in what they do.  I think this is the secret of great comedy, even of the wildest farcical kind.  It's a quality few film-makers, especially rookie low budget productions, hardly ever manage; yet Working Dog Productions has succeeded without question.  Top marks guys, on a job very well done! "},{"Title":"How much does he want for it?","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'll pay it! I saw this film on TV on vacation in NZ and think it's one of the funniest comedies ever, and I'm not dreamin. This film just goes to show you that we are just about as happy as we set out to be no matter what happens to us or what we have, and our personal situations make only a small difference in that happiness as it's is more a state of mind than of fact.I bought the American DVD and it is just as good as the original. The car name change was no big deal, and the rest of it seemed the same and surely was the vibe of the thing. I just loved this film and recommend it to everyone I see.The Kiwi's I asked about it said that that was the dumb way Australians really are. Now I'm sure they're dreamin', as I know at least one who isn't that way. "},{"Title":"Good clean fun that is mocking in a gentle way rather than being cruel","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Kerrigan family live in a top property at the end of an airport runway. Dad has endless projects round the house and often stands in proud amazement at the size of his aerial, the hole that his son dug or some of the ideas his middle son has had. Mum is a great cook that can do a sponge cake as easy as seasoned chicken. Wayne is in prison, Steve is an apprentice mechanic and an ideas man, while Dale is just plain happy with his simple family life. However, when a compulsory purchase order comes through the post, the family find that they are being forced to sell up to make room for an extension of the airport.Shot in less than two weeks because that is all they could afford to do, this comedy is a delightfully gentle comedy that draws laughs from the Kerrigan family but balances it perfectly so that we still like them. This is not as easy as it sounds because, in UK parlance, the Kerrigan's are chavs and are very simple people, they admire things that many of us would dislike (living below planes and beside pylons) and they are not the brightest in the world. In essence they are the typical Australian working class family and Darryl is the classic Aussie battler. The plot is simple and, although it is fairly obvious where it is going and isn't ever that dramatic, the story is gently engaging and pleasing. The laughs are gentle but consistent and show a real good touch in the writing &#150; taking normal eccentricities and exaggerating just enough to be funny but not to the point where it is absurd. It is hard to describe but basically give it five minutes &#150; you'll either get it or you won't and, if you don't, then don't bother with it because it is the same from the start onwards.The direction is a bit rough and ready but that does suit the material &#150; as does the cast. Caton is enjoyable and fits the bill spot on. Tenney has a smaller role but does it well; likewise Simcoe, Hope and a pre-Hollywood Bana. Narration is good from Curry and the majority of the cast play their material well considering the real time pressure they must have been under. One bit of trivia that illustrates the constraints in making this film is that the family name Kerrigan was selected because the tow trucks used for the film already had that name painted on them, so it saved costs to change the script rather than change the paint job.Overall this was a delightfully amusing film with not a single harsh or cruel line in the whole thing. It may make fun of the Kerrigan family but it does it in an affectionate manner that is consistently funny without being a real belly-laugh fest. A perfectly entertaining family film that doesn't appear to have been damaged or compromised by the rushed shoot or the tiny budget. "},{"Title":"A simple, wonderful film","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  People call this a comedy, and it is very funny, but its not a comedy.  It is a wonderfully warm story about a simple man and his family who are faced with the devastation of losing their home because the government needs their land to enlarge the runway at Melbourne Airport.  He refuses to accede to a law that can kick him off his land at a whim and fights all the way to the Supreme Court. If you have an ounce of sense and agree with the old adage that the law is an ass you will enjoy this film.  If you have an ounce of humanity, you will LOVE this film.  A deeply satisfying classic Aussie film, beautiful.   "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Beauty truly is in the eye of the beholder as the Kerrigan family's view of their home and neighborhood demonstrates.  While an outsider might cringe at the sight of the house with numerous add-ons and a runway in the backyard, you are invited in to spend some time with the family and learn why home means so much to them.The Kerrigans are a family that is tremendously supportive and loving to each other, weaving a rich history of happy memories together.The story is told with humor and warmth, and, aside from a little rough language, would be a great family movie.I loved it and would recommend it to anyone! "}{"Title":"An Aussie Perspective","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Crocodile dundee is nothing on this heartwarming film. The Castle is filled with lovable characters, a good dose of Aussie humour and an outlook on life which makes one question their own standards and principles. Anne Tenney and Michael Caton form a realistic and touching couple, and Stephen Currey plays the role of Dale Kerrigan perfectly. Bud Tingwell also delights as the QC.I could go on for hours about how good this film is, but instead I think I'll save my breath and just encourage everyone to give The Castle a go. It's worth every cent and more.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I noticed a lot of Australians jumping to this film's defence inearlier postings. Rest easy, Aussies, there are plenty of peoplelike me who seek Australian films whenever they are available.This film has the right mix of comedy and sweet-heartedness thatseem to be a trademark of Australian films. My in laws were quitehappy when I returned with The Castle "},{"Title":"Like Ray Bradbury's Wonderful Ice Cream Suit but Australian","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like Ray Bradbury's Wonderful Ice Cream Suit but Australian. Well maybe not exactly like Wonderful Ice Cream Suit but it surely has the same inner beauty.Ignore the quotes on the video's cover they utterly fail to capture what this film is about. Whoever designed the cover has obviously not seen the film. It is nothing like Crocodile Dundee or The Full Monty. And you will stop laughing it is more touching and heartwarming than it is hilarious.Go, go now, stop reading this and go out and get a copy of The Castle. Gather up your loved ones because this should be a family experience.The Kerrigans lead a simple life but then their simple themselves. They are tremendously supportive and loving. Their material wealth is next to nil, but the family makes lemons out of all the lemonades life gives them. Every meal is a banquet, every anecdote is a saga. Lets face facts, Australians make the best films! Hollywood makes some good films but the Australians always seem to make better ones. Too Wong Foo Thanks For nothing when you can have Priscilla Queen of The Desert and The Castle. Go out right now and find a copy of The Castle. Don't expect convulsive laughs like in There Is Something About Mary. Expect giggles and a renewal in your faith in humanity. Are you still reading this? Go, I said go, go out and get The Castle!  "},{"Title":"My entire family agrees The single greatest comedy of all-time.","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was young, there were several movies, such as Liar, Liar, that I only enjoyed for the unsophisticated, slapstick parts, but as I grew up, I could appreciate the witty, sophisticated jokes peppered throughout. As a kid, I did not understand The Castle at all. Now that I'm older, it is my favourite comedy. Why? Because it ingeniously combines complex comedy and emotion, and has a delightful, incredibly subtle tongue-in-cheek approach. It challenges you to think how it could be better, but is totally victorious.The characters are deliciously authentic and astonishingly likable, from the clueless Dennis Denuto to the almost unrealistically optimistic father. The dialogue is superbly witty, and the level of joy and heartbreak throughout is wonderfully affecting.Perfect. "},{"Title":"You have to see it at least 4 times","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first time you see this movie, confusion sets in. Then, later, when you're still thinking about how the bug zapper, the sound of an outboard motor on full throttle and serenity might go hand in hand, you finally laugh. A few days go by and you decide this movie might have something so you watchit again, and sure enough, the damned thing is funny. No not funny, HILARIOUS. Pretty soon you and all your co-workers are quoting lines such as You're an ideas man, Steve! and It's the VIBE! Watch it a few more times and it hits you, this movie is GENIUS. GENIUS I tell you. The dogs, the pool-room Bana as kickboxing Con, Trace and her proud moments, Dale's hole-digging, Daryl's take on serenity and Sal's chicken dinner...all make up a movie that is both a tribute to the modern family as well as the modern King of his Castle. "},{"Title":"Movies are such a great thing","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Two things about this flick and about the movies generally talking   1. I live a zillion miles away from Australia, a place where probably I'll never be, a country I have nothing in common with. It does not matter at all. For an hour and a half I´ve been living there, with one of the weirdest and lovable families ever seen. I´ve been another australian.2. I hate law movies. I hate trials on a screen, with distinguished exceptions. I hate lost causes. I hate that David vs. Goliath stuff. I hate J. Grisham's books and adaptations. This film is all about that. But it a marvelous, enjoyable, laughable, tear-jerker, unforgettable film.Thank you, Antipodes dwellers, for such a gift. "},{"Title":"Simple, but funny story","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've fallen in love with this movie.  The main character reminds me (and my wife) of my father-in-law.  He can't imagine that life could be any better than what he's got; a loving family and a house backed up to the airport, high power lines overhead, and lead in the back yard.I like getting a glimpse in the life of a lower middle class Australian family.  They seem very real to me.  The humor rings true, also.  If there's one show my dad likes better than 'Funniest Home Videos', it's 'Best of Funniest Home Videos'The youngest son narrates the movie.  This just adds a level to the humor. The son is about as simple as the father.I highly recommend this movie, but my sister-in-law's comment was that that was 90 minutes she'll never get back, so I realize it's not for everyone, "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a fun movie to enjoy over and over.  Wonderful performances by the entire cast and the subtle hilarity of the dialogue gets funnier with each viewing.  This is one of those rare films that every character evokes sympathy and makes you laugh at the same time.  Like the Beach Boy song says, Fun, Fun, Fun. "},{"Title":"The great Australian movie.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is hilarious, Rob Stitch is a genius, he has captured the essence of Australia and put it on film. If you didn't say during the film at some stage I know someone just like that! then you are either not Australian or you are out of touch with the Aussie battler that was once in us all. The moving of the cars dialogue is classic and I have played on plenty of pool tables just like the one featured. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Superb entertainer","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A man's home is his castle. That is what Daryl believes in. He lives with his wife, two sons, four grey hounds in his house which is right next to the airport in Melbourne. He has a daughter who has married a kick boxer (Eric Bana in one of his early cameos) and a son who is in prison on charge of robbing a gas station. Daryl's is a blissful existence. He loves his wife, compliments her cooking, and has fun with dogs and sons. The sons love their parents. However, their life is turned upside down when one day an eviction notice is served by the neighboring airport which needs the land for expansion. The movie is about Daryl's fight against the airport company. The acting by the largely unknown (to me) Australian cast is superb. Daryl is a total knockout and he will have you laughing with him throughout the runtime. The script is very witty and filled with great lines and quotable quotes. The characters are truly memorable. At a length of 80 minutes, this is breeze of a movie. It starts slowly and then grows on you. You will be sad when it ends. 4 out of 5 for The Castle. Superb entertainer. "}{"Title":"The vibe of the thing is charm","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This story of one family's quest for justice is one of my own family's all-time favorite films and quite possibly our favorite comedy. Even the zero-budget production values contribute to its appeal because the cheap sets, lighting, etc, help to reveal the utter tackiness of the Kerrigan home which is in stark contrast to the family's buoyancy and richness of spirit.It is a quirky little movie that also serves a curiously noble purpose. After watching, my family is invariably reminded of the implied contract we hold with one another of total acceptance, unity, and unconditional affection. The Kerrigans, while basically ridiculous, yet manage to embody the kind of tolerance and respect we all want, such that their lexicon has added to the shorthand we use to express it. Icing sugar. Now, who would go to a restaurant.... That's going' straight to the poolroom. So much serenity! They're dreamin'. Whaddya call this? You could sell that. This I'm not even taking outta the wrapper. He dug a hole! It's the vibe o' the thing. Yes, the Kerrigans are ridiculous, and not least because they believe justice will be done. But the very fact that it is done directly results from their open, honest, egalitarian approach to life. Darryl befriends the Queen's Counsel completely unhampered by notions of class or self-consciousness; he sees only their commonality based on shared regard for home and family, and decency, and doing the right thing.The Kerrigans at first come across as naive or just plain ignorant but by story's end we are enchanted by--and not a little envious of--their purity of heart and childlike innocence. THE CASTLE is one of those movies we watch year after year and it never fails to charm us. "},{"Title":"F**king brilliant","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In 1997 I had the great experience of traveling throughout Australia for some months. As most people who have had the same experience should know, sometimes things get boring and you turn to TV and cinemas. My travel mate and I often went to cinemas in a period, and one of the films we watched was The Castle. The movie left us in tears with laughter, maybe it somehow seemed to include a lot of the same humor we love from Danish films. A lot of the funny dialogs are somewhat similar to what we see in Scandinavian movies. This should not be seen as advertising European films though. Most people would consider this movie hilarious, and all in all I believe this movie is f**king brilliant, thumbs up to the Auzzies. "},{"Title":"the ultimate feel good movie","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is a great movie which just shows that simple pleasures in life means so much more.The story is very simple.It is about a family taking on the big guns to stop compulsory acquisition of their property.The characterisation is great and the acting is also very good. What makes this movie very special for me is the relationship between the members of the family and the way they stick to each other through thick and thin.In addition to that the humour is very fresh and different from what we are used to seeing in Hollywood. It is a very Australian movie.I have never been to Australia but this movie makes me feel that I know the country already.It also depicts the multicultural side of the country. "},{"Title":"An authentic, charming film... the serenity","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are some films that stand out as gentle, original and authentically moving without being sickeningly sentimental. Offhand I can think of only a handful - Alan Parker's The Commitments (1991) leaps to mind, Nicholas Ellenbogen and Koos Roets's The Angel, The Bicycle and the Chinaman's Finger (1991) and Gene Saks's Brighton Beach Memoirs (1986) - and like these films, Rob Stitch's The Castle is eminently quotable, improves with repeated watchings and stands the test of time. It is exemplary of that brand of subtly humorous writing that leads one to recall gags years later and become hysterical entirely out of context. It is the triumph of the little guy, the power of collaboration, the impact of affectionate satire, the art of a simple performance and the beauty of a really terrific gag. See this film. "},{"Title":"No, I'm not just another Aussie just running to the film's defence...","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this film, and I have read every review here on it. I understand that the are several 'Australianisms' to it, that some 'narrow-minded' and 'slow' viewers may not get, but you have to look at the film in the broader perspective. True, it is an 'Australian' film, and a great one too; a classic Aussie tale that shows the qualities that most admire about Australians, much like Tim Winton's 'Cloudstreet'. I dispute some of the comments from non-Aussies, that it's a bunch of no names. They're not typical A-list celebs, but they're Aussie celebs, such as Michael Caton (even though I don't like him much, is really good in this). It is a bit of a stereotypical suburban family, but at least it's a true stereotype, well-known Aussie shows like 'The Price is Right' and 'Hey Hey It's Saturday', it is an Australian comedy, and an authentic one. We do it best when it's original, as opposed to copied TV soapies and dramas, skits etc.It is truly 'a comedy that sticks the finger up the big guys' in every sense. Suffer in yer jocks!  "},{"Title":"A funny Aussie film about the laws of eminent domain. (minor spoilers)","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really liked 'The Castle.' It's an Australian production about the dumb, but lovable Kerrigan family. Dale Kerrigan, the youngest, narrates the story of how his dad Darryl, a guy with a heart of gold, saved their home. I don't know why Dale narrated the tale, than say some third party, considering he is really inconsequential to the story.'The Castle' is so funny because the Kerrigan family is so dumb. But, at the same time, they're idyllic and really sincere to each other. Every night when Darryl's wife serves him dinner, he says to his wife with surprise this is nice, what do you call it? Chicken, she says. Yeah, but what you've done with it, he marvels. Seasoning. And Darryl plasters a nice smile across his face, proud of his wife. Honestly, anyone being raised in a household like the Kerrigans, it must do wonders to your self-esteem.In the introduction, Dale proudly tells about how his father acquired their small, but rapidly growing home, the subject of the story. Says Dale, he must have gotten a real deal on the home because he got it so cheap, and today, it's almost worth just as much. The house, the pride of the Kerrigan family, as it turns out, lies right next to the airport runway and directly under a string of power lines.After an appraiser shows up in the neighborhood to inspect the houses on Darryl's block, the residents get a letter from a company that they're compulsorlary required (this is how it is stated in the movie, hence the joke) to sell their homes at face value to the company looking to buy their property, knock it down, and expand the airport. This is called the law of eminent domain, where the government (the company is a subsidary of the federal government of Australia) can come in a give just compensation for your property if they require use of your land. I think it's referred to as public domain.Darryl Kerrigan doesn't want to sell his house. Says Darryl, a man's house is his castle. Darryl, and his neighborhood support, take it to the courts, determined not to be so easily intimidated by a large corporation looking to get their way by any means necessary. At first, Darryl hires his inept barrister (lawyers to us Yanks), Dennis, to take the case to court. Except the moron, who in real life would face a malpractice suit, goes in strictly arguing the vibe of the constitution of Australia prohibits the company from taking Darryl's land. But all hope seems lost for the Kerrigan family, until they are approached by a kindly old solicitor who finds merit in Darryl's case, and wants to present it before the highest court in Australia. The issue is the company's offer for a person's home just compensation as required by the laws governing property acquisition? And that's pretty much what this whole movie expresses. That the Kerrigan's home is much more than physical property, it's an irreplaceable sentimental value.Even though I dismissed this movie as somewhat too idealistic regarding the outcome of the case, in fact, Australian eminent domain laws have changed, modeling something like the outcome of (and justifications for) the case in this movie. Aside from all the business about property law, The Castle is an outrageously funny little movie. The short introduction to the family lays out the general mood of the movie--sarcastic humor. It's good stuff. "},{"Title":"AN EVEN BETTER DISH","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fans of THE DISH might want to check out this delightful `David and Goliath' tale set in the suburbs of Melbourne, Australia.Ignore the misguided poster on the video and give THE CASTLE a chance.  If you're not hooked within the first five minutes, turn it off and save yourself the trouble - it's not your cup of tea.But for those that are laughing their heads off in the opening scenes detailing the plight of the Kerrigan Family's `castle' - a gaudy yet lovably home next to a major airport - you're in for a ninety minute treat.  Director Rob Sitch works magic with a minimal budget and a fine ensemble cast headed by Michael Canton.  The screenwriting quartet of Sitch, Cilaur, Gleisner & Kennedy keep the laughs and the story fast and furious, while never losing sight of the fact that THE CASTLE is actually a clever parable on the importance of home and family.If anyone tells you they didn't like this movie, `tell &#145;em they're dreamin'.'  "},{"Title":"A classic..","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've watched this film about 3 times now (and many more times in the future after I buy it), and it only gets better with each viewing. I think anybody who appreciates the humor of any Cohen brother's films will enjoy this movie about a working class family fighting for  their principles.The story is simple and straightforward, yet there are hints of aboriginal rights issues running parallel which adds only more depth about a family trying to save their house from the bulldozer. The humor and message are balanced perfectly, while the voice over work really  bonds you with the characters as the film progresses.I really enjoyed the artistic qualities of this film from a technical standpoint as well. The lighting is flat and the colors are bland. Every shot is lit hard and bright, no soft shadows or beauty shots in this film! Technical qualities that only support the message of this truly unique and wonderful film that will be an Australian classic. "},{"Title":"The Americans just don't get it...","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now I realise that not all Americans described this movie as laughless or lackluster, and that some Australians have absolutely despised this movie (very few however) but I honestly think the Americans don't understand the Australian humour. I personally find the repetition of The Castle highly amusing (tell 'em he's dreamin'...it's the vibe) and the clueless, stupidity of the characters is so typical of Australian comedies. I know it's probably not the American viewers faults that the majority of their comedy is all the same sort of stupid slapstick that they've grown so accustomed to. But anyway, I think this is a great film. It is entertaining, charming and memorable. It's definately one of the better Australian movies.8.5/10  "},{"Title":"A great Australian comedy.","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  **May Contain Spoilers**Rob Sitch and the Working Dog team's 1997 comedy is a quaint little film with a few universal truths we can all see the merits of. Confronted with the prospect of a compulsory acquistion by a trans national air consortium, a middle aged family man named Darryl Kerrigan (played with an amazing verve by Michael Caton), fights the decision by rallying family and neighbours and going to court to do battle with the giant corporation. Following a 'David versus Goliath' type battle, the Kerrigans emerge as the new heroes of the Australian working class. Sitch and co. have created a film that, with the 'right' sense of humour, works on many levels. The script, filled with many quotable gems, many are actually Australian idioms not used by the majority of Aussies but have since been embraced in this re-birth of lost Australian culture, is continually funny and even delves into serious issues facing both the Kerrigan family and Australia in general (for example, displacement, national identity and the Mabo decision). Sitch and his co-writers don't really go for the jugular in their particular brand of humour, rather just amusing in a simple and traditional way, which is a welcome relief from the glut of gross-out flicks that have been produced in the last decade, especially. The performances from the entire cast is excellent and befits the film's quirky nature. The female characters are given quite marginalised roles, yet this doesn't detract from the overall characterisations. With many laughs to be found in this little Aussie gem, it's well worth the time. (Just do NOT watch it with expectations of 'high-art' - it's not pretentious in the slightest.) Recommended. "}{"Title":"Great characters, and beautiful comedy timing.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A simple story of love for family and their home. It does not take itself seriously in characters or subject matter, but the result is a timeless Aussie comedy. Eric Banna's role is beautifully timed and understated. It is one movie I think all Australians can relate to regardless of cultural background. "},{"Title":"Hilarious story, great movie that will make you ROFLYAO","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Incredible. IT even might have been a real story, that shows that the only thing that can battle bureacracy is simplicity. If you don't get a severe case of ROFLYAO by this movie, go see the doctor.BTW ROFLYAO = Rolling On (the) Floor Laughing Your Ass Off "},{"Title":"Australian way of life","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film in Australia, and was told that if there was ever a film that could sum up the life , hopes and dreams of an Australian family , then this would be it.The setting is a suburb outside Melbourne, where the International Airport is. The family home is somewhere near the end of the runway. Due to increased activity and growth, Property developers make plans to extend and build on the properties located where the Kerrigans and neighbours live.Faced with forced eviction the Kerrigan family aswell as the neighbours set out to fight the eviction notices.With this backdrop , we see the life of the Kerrigan family, a son who is a tryer and has a thirst for knowledge..well a very basic knowledge, but is proud of his family and enjoys how tight and loving the family home is. Considering the lads age , when most kids rebel and play loud music , this character was a great success story for the Kerrigans. Darryl also has two other sons, one is  an ideas man, a sort of Del Trotter wannabe , but you cant get over the crap he wants to buy. He asks his father what a pulpit is. The other son is in prison. In a way , he was a tragic figure. In prison, but yet he and his family were never far from each others thoughts. It was a very touching story which really should've been explored more deeply. Darryl also has a daughter and is basically the apple of his eye. She is a hairdresser and marrys a Kick-boxer fanatic.When they return from their honeymoon, well the scenes and dialogue were superb. The newly married couple talk about the quality of entertainment on the plane , and the hotel service , not to mention the 24 hr channel on Kick-boxing.The Asiatic culture and history simply passed them by.Darryl employs a solicitor , who cant operate a photocopier , then chastises him for losing his faith in his legal abillities. The solicitor was great in this film , thrown in a legal dispute in which he was clearly out of his depth , yet still went along for the ride.The Castle was a story of independence and sentiment.Most notable however was the Aussie wit and the idealistic call for the'fair go ' society.Darryl had a Lebanese neighbour , an old poor bloke who had obviously seen better days and a divorced woman who somehow represented the independent knocked about Aussie woman. This I believe was a bit of social commentary where the old values and ways of Australia adapts to the new cultural and social diversification represented in this picture.All I can say is , is that this film was special in terms of Australian identity and pride. Internationally though , this is as close to how Australians really are , funny , loyal and lovable.  "},{"Title":"Erudite, compassionate, funny and warm -- who needs more?","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes a film's idea is so strong -- though it may be undefinable -- that if a script is halfway good and the direction is halfway ambitious, everything will gel. In this film, the script was marvellous, the direction gleeful, the acting committed -- and the story was the timeless one about the little man's struggle against the sometimes ruthless impetus of big business. How uplifting to see a film where ordinary people are allowed to be slightly tasteless and tacky and yet where their individuality and character help you transcend that. These are ordinary, inspiring people in a story that is utterly gripping in its simplicity. What a treat! What a Wonderful Life -- eat your heart out! "},{"Title":"A bloody funny movie","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the best aussie movie ever. It is really funny and the acting by Michael Caton (Daryl Kerrigan) is top class. The story is based on a low-class family that lives next door to an airport. One day they get the news that they are going to have to move out of their homes because airlink wants to expand. Daryl doesn't have any of this though and fights the legal system all the way with his mate Denis Denuto and Laurie,a retired QC. Non-stop laughs all the way and even includes touching moments that top off a great all-round movie.    "},{"Title":"Very intense, for a funny movie","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We really enjoyed this movie. It was very amusing, although not uproariously funny. The very strange aspect was that I got a headache from concentrating so hard on it. Every word that comes out of the characters' mouths (in a thick Australian accent) seems critical and precious - not to be missed. Definitely worth seeing, especially if you like off-beat comedies. "},{"Title":"An excellent example of talent and intelligence.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a yank (person of US origin) Married to a Sheila, and having lived in Australia I found The Castle fresh and funny.  A comic look at Oz determination and love of Life.  Characters of such proportion that they became like family members.  Script writing that leads to constant quotes in my daily life, and the life of my family.  Our family which ranges in age from 50 to 9 all enjoyed the movie, the characters, the plot, and the comic approach to the subject matter.  And have watched the movie over many times.As a person involved with production of Movies, commercials, Video's and Radio programs I found the laid back approach to filming ingenious and comfortable.  The Castle is produced in glorious form, yet not bogged down by overproduction, or Hollywood type glitz.  It's a finely crafted screenplay, supported by a solid cast, and appropriate sound track. Clever Acting, and directing show throughout the film.  An excellent example of talent and intelligence. "},{"Title":"Special night experiencing The Castle","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had the privilege of being able to see a special screening of The Castle before it opened to the public in Los Angeles.  The creators of The Castle spoke briefly before the picture began and gave us a little insight and history.  For example, they filmed this movie in 11 days!  Talk about long days, I can just imagine!The Castle was so much fun, we all have stories about our parents and this is the kind of movie that reminds you that the quirks that our parents have are what makes them special.  A must see for all families. Enjoy!!!!! "},{"Title":"Well Worth a Watch","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Working Dog have a proved record of demonstrating that a mega-budget isn't essential to producing enjoyable, well-conceived and executed films and television shows.The Castle, however, is not a film which everyone will enjoy without some effort. Because the humor derives very much from a particular part of the world, those of different cultures and countries will not readily relate to many of the gags. There is enough generic humor Making light, as it does, of a happy family enjoying life's simple pleasures is not something that everyone finds funny, either. But if one puts aside such sensitivities for the sake of enjoying the light-hearted story, it is an enjoyable watch.It did seem to me that there was a change of scriptwriter about half way through the film, as the style of dialogue changed. The most obvious aspect of this was the sudden inclusion of four-letter words in characters' speech, for the second half of the film. Another oddity of the film was the pronunciation of castle, which was more characteristic of Toorak residents (and their wannabees) than Essendon.But put that aside and enjoy the ride. It's certainly worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Funny and beautiful movie","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An amazingly humorous movie (very understated humor) that also subtly tells us what's important in life leadership - bringing out the best in the people around you if even you're a tow truck driver, enjoying the life you've been given without bitterness, remorse, etc., standing up for your rights and fighting for your family and friends.Apparently a review needs at least 10 lines. So here's a rerunAn amazingly humorous movie (very understated humor) that also subtly tells us what's important in life leadership - bringing out the best in the people around you if even you're a tow truck driver, enjoying the life you've been given without bitterness, remorse, etc., standing up for your rights and fighting for your family and friends. "}{"Title":"A modern fairytale?","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching this film on the box, after having seen the original in a hardtop in 1997, was an educational experience. It bears many resemblances to the old-fashioned fairytale. Villains, a fairy godmother, the triumph of good over evil, and a moral. The moral is 'There's no place like home'. Think about the political environment in 1997. It's not unlike what it is now. Those of you who have had a brush with the law, or a battle with big business, will recognize the plot. Twelve years on, The Castle is as relevant to-day as it was in 1997. Think about another great fairytale. Like The Wizard of Oz. And the final few words 'There's no place like home'. The Castle is the archetypal 'home'. It's worth fighting for, not because it is a building, but because it represents family. The Wizard of Oz is worth watching over and over for its political agenda. Each viewing of The Castle will reveal new insights into current political, social, and economic truths. Ordinary people with ordinary concerns are powerless, until some whistleblower or dedicated person takes up the sword of justice. I confess to saying in 1997 'Amusing, funny, but not a great film'. The Castle is stupendously popular because it is a great film. "},{"Title":"What A Great Movie","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those gems that you have no idea what it is or about when you see it in the TV guide. It was on IFC and luckily for me the little write-up made it sound interesting so I recorded it and just watched it. The Castle is very funny, quirky and the age old story of battling the windmills. The actors are excellent in their portrayal of the characters and the story line is full of humorous tidbits that you think about for a second and then laugh. It is not meant for kids because there is fluent use of the F word but it didn't spoil the film for me. I probably would of said it the same way.I am going to recommend this film to all my friends and will watch it again to catch little things I missed the first time. "},{"Title":"loved this little movie","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The genuine kindness that the family showed to one another made it endearing and memorable. If only I had the words to express how much I wish I could find more movies like this out there that know they don't have to belittle characters to make them funny. I am so glad I channel surfed my way to finding this movie on cable TV this week.I always look forward to seeing movies made outside of the US for their fearlessness in showing people as they really are. So many Hollywood movies are either glossed over or overly graphic. I have recommended this movie to my co-workers and have already quoted it to my friends and family. The hair cut on the youngest son was a little painful to look at but heck we all had funny hair back in the day. I loved the relationship between the family and their neighbors. There was true cultural diversity and mutual respect that we can all learn from and emulate. "},{"Title":"What a pleasant surprise! Terrific Movie","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Scanning the dial I stumbled on this film on our IFC indie cable channel. I absolutely LOVED this movie. Never heard of it and it was outstanding Funny, touching, unique......Its about 10 below zero here in Chicago today and to watch this heartwarming film was such a treat on a cold day. I loved it especially the catch phrases....he's dreaming' ......hilarious movie with catch phrases one could repeat over and over!The father was loving and supportive of his whole family. Wanting to have the home for his incarcerated son to return to was beautiful. We fall into the trap of thinking a home must look a certain way and live up to an expensive standard. No wonder the global economy is in a shambles as we all strive to live beyond our means. This movie showed people genuinely happy within their means. Even the Queens Council was drawn to this loving man. "},{"Title":"This was a refreshing surprise","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I happened to watch this movie because there wasn't anything else on TV I wanted to watch. I stumble on it on IFC by chance and boy was I pleasantly surprised.Only Australians can portray working class with such respect and delicious country humor. Humor not as in your face like American hick humor, but more subtle and equally funny. You really have to listen to the dialogue and it's hilarious. Here's the big difference. American Films have a tendency to either mock and ridicule the working class or make this Mickey Mouse hero out of them that does impossible and extraordinary things. However, in this film, you can enjoy the idiosyncrasies of the working class, their struggles, realities and dreams. The hero isn't a hero, just a simple guy who perseveres by putting his trust on people to help him keep the things he values the most. His only extraordinary achievement is to keep true to his values and avoid being someone he's not.I don't understand how some people can say you got to be Australian to understand their humor. I'm a Latino, Spanish is my first language and got it from the start. Of course, I had to watch it with English subtitles because I had a little trouble with the accent. Maybe Americans should watch it with subtitles too. Maybe they don't get the humor because they don't understand some words from that region.This is a perfect example of how you only need a good script and great actors to make a good film. Not big budgets or big stars. Maybe Hollywood should take some notes. "},{"Title":"This is going straight to the pool room.","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Castle is an absolute delight from start to finish, a good-natured, open-hearted no-budget Australian comedy shot in 11 days that really works, not least because you really love the characters. They may live in a less than des res at the end of a runway and have worse taste than trailer trash, but they're truly happy with their lot and each other so you find yourself laughing with them as much as at them as they fight a compulsory purchase order on their 'castle' with the aid of their lawyer who can't even get his photocopier to work properly, let alone interpret law beyond 'the vibe.' It breaks a lot of the rules of construction, relying heavily on narration and repetition, but it really works. Easily the most joyously likable film I've seen in ages.Miramax's NTSC DVD is the US version of the film with minor dialogue changes from 'Strine phrases that might leave US viewers scratching their heads - the Region 4 disc is the original Australian version, rissoles and all. "},{"Title":"Hidden Treasure","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A family member found this movie through recommendation of an Aussie friend. I began watching, expecting to bail after a few moments, but was pleasantly surprised. It's a fun story with gentle humor, one that Roger Ebert called one of the funniest movies of recent years.My favorite lines involve the castle owners explaining how lucky they are to live on the fringe of an international airport. Although the family never travels by air, they think the location would be very convenient if they ever begin flying. Of course, as this is explained, a screaming jetliner passes low overhead, about to land on the nearby runway.With such a perfect location, it is understandable that the family goes to great lengths to protect their home when the airport wants to expropriate.Director Rob Stich's next theatrical project was The Dish, another comic movie with affable and quirky characters. Look for either of these when you are in the mood for comedy. "},{"Title":"Practially Perfect","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The characters in this film are wonderfully drawn, and the dialog has memorable lines that you'll find yourself repeating. Absolutely laugh out loud funny, and wonderful film. The sincerity of each of the characters is almost painful to watch at times. Yet other situations that are just atmosphere to any given scene ring so frighteningly true they are hysterically funny. The solicitor's relationship with his Xerox machine is one that is just perfect! I think what's most impressive about this film is that you've never seen it before. It isn't filled with clichéd scenes that you've seen a dozen times before. I don't think there's a false note in any of the plot directions; meaning, as funny as it is, it doesn't have characters doing things you don't believe they'd do. Then, at the end of the day, the ending of this wonderful comedy has a heart of gold that you'll find yourself wiping tears from your eyes. "},{"Title":"Top film","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is definitely the best film i have ever seen. It is so funny and has such a brilliant simple story. The one liners have become part of vocabulary for everyone i know that has seen this film. My Australian friend quotes it without knowing with shot Dale. It is a complete shame that less people have not seen this film as it could have become a great film and still may. If i ran a television company i would put it on without a second thought. I wouldn't have come across the film if my father hadn't seen it on Film4. A channel that needs to be subscribed to. Its a total fluke that i watched it as i would never seen it. i don't know of anyone who didn't like it. Its also a brilliant feel good film and makes you feel like you can't take anything for granted and the things you've got you worship. "},{"Title":"this is a funny movie","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is among the funniest I have seen. And apparently I need 10 lines of text so I will say that it was funny again. I liked it and would gladly watch it again. Good movie and great if you want to laugh because it is funny stuff. Really, watch it if you get a chance because it is just that good. Is that 10 lines yet? No it is not so I'm back here again to say.... funny movie..... I enjoyed watching it because it was so funny....... You might enjoy it too........Did I mention that it is a comedy and is a very, funny and entertaining movie. This is most certainly the last review I will ever write on IMDb. Really... now I've had enough!! "}{"Title":"Taking the mickey out of the stereotype - and loving it!!!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, if some people believe that Australians are all as simple as the Kerrigans, then they're the ones who are simple. But this movie relies on the stereotype created by movies like Crocodile Dundee and wouldn't have gone as far as it did without it. And that's what makes it so funny - showing pride in this Aussie stereotype. And as simple as this movie is, the message is loud and clear. If there were more people like the Kerrigans, the world would be a better place, because their honest values ring true. When the government wants to aquire Darryl Kerrigan's house for an airport expansion, he won't stand for it, because it's not a just house, it's a home, with people who love and care for eachother. To quote the words of the great Bud Tingwell, or rather his character, Laurie Hammill, a home is not built of bricks and water, but love and memories. You can't pay for it, and you're just short-changing people if you try. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie I've ever seen!!!","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've read the other reviews and all the Aussie viewers agree that this is the funniest movie ever.  I watched it in an almost empty theatre on a wednesday matinee and I laughed so much the whole row of empty seats nearly tipped over (I always thought they were bolted to the floor) Coming from a family of Trading Post readers I wept the whole way through this film. To the Americans bewildered at this film - forget Crocodile Dundee and Priscilla, this film is how 90% of this country thinks and talks. And this is what we think is funny. "},{"Title":"Laughs a-plenty, but a powerful message also.","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Reading through the mainly enthusiastic comments appearing here about The Castle, I can't help but feel that the main strength of this gem of a movie is being missed.Rob Sitch and co. have managed to translate the ramifications of the historic Mabo Decision into terms every non-Aboriginal Australian can relate to. When Darryl Kerrigan remarks I think I'm beginning to see how the Aborigines feel (or words to that effect) and his wife replies Have you been drinking, darl?, this is the very heart of the film. Love of home, of place. If you loved your home as much as the Kerrigans love theirs, wouldn't you fight all the way to the Supreme court to save it. Wouldn't you do an Eddie Mabo?Most of us, of course, don't love our homes this way anymore, seeing them as simply rungs on the home-ownership ladder. So the Kerrigans must necessarily be people with modest needs, modest expectations and a great deal of love, to fight so tenaciously for their home when it doesn't even have a big driveway - sadly this seems to make them appear as somehow mentally deficient to some of the (american) reviewers on this site. Yes, they are sweet, they are simple - they also made an entire theatre audience stand up and cheer!In short, a film with a lot more smarts than overseas audiences could fairly be expected to appreciate, but a film justifiably set to become an Aussie classic.Think I'll take up trout fishing (ala A River Somewhere) - must do wonders for the mind. "},{"Title":"A lovable Aussie romp!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I guess you would probably have to be Australian to understand some of the clever cultural jokes in this film! Saying that, Im sure audiences all over the world could find some entertainment and value to the story of the simple man leading the simple life. Maybe its a bittersweet reflection on our society when the main character is defending a house that is virtually noise polluted and ugly!But hey, who cares right? The point of this film is that even though some things may seem worthless to some people, it can have an inner meaning to others! Its a story about appreciating what you've got and fighting for it, regardless of its monetary value! Okay so the Kerrigan family are uneducated simpletons, but they have a decent belief system and they appreciate the life they lead! They believe their home is paradise and soon as I watch more of this flick- I started to believe the same thing!I really enjoyed this film and its simple message especially in a world where a successful family can get blurred with how much money they have! This is a great fun predictable film and its well worth a look, and Michael Caten is excellent! The Aussie brand of humour isn't for everyone and some of the jokes are a bit overdone, but the message is great! ***1/2 out of *****! "},{"Title":"A superb comedy about family  life","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You cant help but find this movie wonderfull. This is a Story about an Australian Family who live near an airport and have been summonsed with a compulsary purchase order on their house or should i say their HOME. When you see how happy these people are as a family you feel that these people have everything, not material things but a love for each other that not many familys have. Their way life is threatened by by the airport company who want to take their home away. They take the corporate firm to court and......Watch it yourself and find out. you will love it. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"funny and heartwarming","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is wonderful -- in the spirit of The Full Monty.  A nice light comedy that stands up for the ordinary man. No, its not a great work of art, but I guarantee that if you like idiosyncratic characters and gentle humour then you will come out of the theatre smiling.  Do go and see it. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've ever seen, funny and heart warming.","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the best movie I have ever seen! I saw it at the Brisbane premiere in March '97 and I ended up seeing it four more times before I won a copy of it on video. This is the funniest, most heartwarming film ever to come out of Australia and it only took twelve and half days to film on a really low budget. It was shown in the US at this year's Sundance Film Festival and the audience was apparently rolling in the aisles. It is a movie that makes you feel happy for the little people who just stick to their own things and when the big guys come to get 'em, they fight to the bitter end. Here's a transcript of my favourite scene involving Dale talking to his brother Wayne in jail.Wayne How's Mum? Dale Good. Wayne How's Dad? Dale Good. Wayne How's Trace? Dale Good. Wayne How are you? Dale Good. Wayne How's Steve? Dale He's alright. Wayne Good. Dale (v.o.) We could just chat for hours.See it and I hope it wins a stack of Oscars! "},{"Title":"Feel-Good with very Aussie flavour","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie has a strong Australian suburban feel which is quite true to life -- the characters remind me of people I knew growing up here in Sydney. The script is light-hearted and leaves you with a good feeling -- it is however a little far fetched -- not that it matters because it's not meant to be taken seriously -- just enjoy it! "},{"Title":"pitched to the top with great humour","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great. I was laughing my head of at the foreign guy from across the road, but I don't think this did too well overseas because its mostly Aussie humour, not slapstick humour. It leaves you happy after watching it, and feeling sorry for the low scale lawyer (great character). In Australia there were competititions for home loans using the tag line, I'm sure everyone with a wide minded sense of humour will absolutely LOVE this movie, if you have a chance, SEE IT!!!! "},{"Title":"Funny and Heart-Warming!","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We saw this movie at the suggestion of new friends from Australia who we met on a bus tour of Scotland!  This movie is not only very funny, but heart -warming as well.  The family's devotion to each other is very sweet and it was great to see the little guy come out on top for a change!  I highly recommend it! "}{"Title":"How The Hell Did We Get Here?","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just for interest's sake the Australian Broadcasting Commission (ABC) just broadcast a programme titled How the hell did we get here? Australians were given the opportunity to vote for their favourite Australian movie of all time.The Castle was rated (by Aussies) as their favourite Australian movie. (Number 2 was Mad Max.)Apparently I'm not allowed to comment unless I write at least ten lines, which is rather annoying. It's also annoying to be told by IMDb that my spelling is incorrect. The language is called English, not American. "},{"Title":"Funny, charming in a way","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In all, I enjoyed The Castle.  Very funny.  The Kerrigan family may appear simple to the core, but they choose to be that way and refuse to compromise on their ideals, which is really what the movie is about I think.  The cynical among us might look at them and make fun, but they enjoy their life and are tightly-knit.  If more people were like these characters in real life, the world would be a better place. "},{"Title":"Underneath the humor, an important moral meaning","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is designated by IMDb.com as a comedy, and it is very funny. It's also often described as a film about the importance of having a benevolent family, and it is that also. But what makes it so unusual and so emotionally powerful is its theme (from which the title is derived) A man's home is his castle. It's about the injustice of eminent domain, more prevalent in the USA than in Australia. The reasons that the Kerrigan family gives for fighting compulsory acquisition of their home mirrors what has happened for many decades in the US, most notably in the notorious 2005 Kelo case, which the Supreme Court decided 5-4 against the homeowners. Home (and business) owners who fight eminent domain are not interested in compensation; they love their homes and what those homes mean, and they don't want to move. The Castle dramatizes those values and dramatizes the fight in any nation of individuals against the premise that one's property belongs to the state and can be taken from them to serve the public good. The Castle is a hilarious, cleverly written and well-acted film that does what so few films even try to do it inspires. "},{"Title":"Canadian, eh?","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of our five top movies in the world..........have watched it probably 4 or 5 times........an American friend turned us on to it.....bought it and just keep watching it..........This was SO funny,,,the cheap lawyer....the illustrious solicitor,,,the neighbors.......the family and the kids.....how could anyone think this is kind of for Aussies or something?Maybe being Canucks,,,,we are so close in our thinking to Aussies, of whom there are plenty around here, that we just Get It!Can't believe anyone could not get this....such a simple, heartwarming story...NO violence...nothing scary....o.k. maybe the hairdo's! "},{"Title":"What a joy","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I did not expect a lot from a film with no stars, no action chases , no big budget. What I got was 85 minutes of joy and laughter about a normal family with no airs, graces or style. Just love for each other and laugh after laugh after laugh. Mr Kerrigan is the forthright Aussie that we all have met over the years travelling. Says what he means and no messing.Not overly sentimental but right up there in the laughter count with Young Frankenstein and DodgeBall. All people wishing to write / direct should look at the relationships between all the characters - they all work. Every character is not only likable but real. We all know some people like them. A joy. "},{"Title":"An Australian Classic","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is by the creators of the D-Generation and Frontline (both Australian comedies) though there is little similarities between them. The Castle is about an Australian family who lives next to an international airport and the government wants to buy their property so that they can extend the runway. The owner of the house, Daryl Culligan, refuses to sell because this house is his home and decides to take the government to court. Unfortunately the only lawyer he has available is solicitor named Denis Denito who is hopeless. So bad that I wonder how he actually ever passed law school.It is the characters that make the Castle a decent movie. Daryl's oldest son is in gaol after an armed robbery and he is watching the world go buy from behind bars. Daryl is a very noble husband. Though he doesn't know much, he is a very wise man. He loves his wife and his actions show it. In fact I see Daryl as being a great role model for a husband. He always complements his wife on her cooking and is always encouraging her. One may look on the family as being stupid, but that is only a thin veneer; we actually see a very gifted family underneath. Daryl is a born leader and this is shown by how he leads the residents of his street against the government. His middle son is always looking through the Trading Post for bargains, and some of them are cool such as a spiral staircase, a pair of jousting rods, and a pulpit. His youngest son is the mouthpiece of the story, and he seems to be the least brightest, getting excited over digging a hole.Daryl's wife I also find very noble. Though the age of feminism fiercely attacks this belief, Daryl's wife does indeed submit to her husband. What is more important is that Daryl does not abuse her and their marriage seems to be harmonious. Both of them have their gifts and they work together to hold each other up, especially since they are fighting a huge corporation in the courts. There is also the Iraqi who lives next door who seems to have a fascination with bombs they said that the planes that fly over the house devalue it but I am not concerned, in Iraq planes that fly over your house drop bombs. He is a very trusting neighbour yet very intimidating.They bring up Mabo occasionally in this case and Daryl says now I know how the aboriginals feel. This movie seems to be a response to the aboriginal land claims and attacks the Australian government for the way they took the Aboriginal's land away from them. They are placing the pain of the aboriginals over that of the typical white Australian and are trying to open our eyes to the truth behind what the aboriginals feel. We kicked the aboriginals off their land so that we could set up a colony. In the Castle, the Culligan family is being kicked off of their land because of the government's desire to expand the airport.Favourite Quote What's a pulpit? Something a preacher preaches from. How much they asking? 800 bucks.Tell them they're dreaming. "},{"Title":"I adore this film","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As an Australian, you don't get much better than this. I really don't know many Australian's that don't enjoy this film, or use the colloquials in everyday life ('tell him he's dreamin'). Each time I watch this film I laugh at the irony at the absurd simpleton family that find the smallest things amazing (like when they go on holiday to Boonie Doon. That cracks me up, as it is probably one of the ugliest places Australia has to offer), yet the wholesome and loving family values that shine through the family.In honesty, we could all take a leaf out of the Kerrigan family's book and appreciate the simpler things in life, as much as they do.If you watch this Australian classic film with an open mind to Australian humor, I truly believe that anybody could enjoy it. It has so many great one-liners and all of the characters have been cast so perfectly. Stephen Curry is going quite well in cinema these days, taking on much more serious roles! Give the Castle a go. It's a ripper! "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Last year, this movie just popped on the telly while I was bored. And I'm so happy that I watched it.I found 'The Castle' hilarious, it was cool to see where many well-used sayings came from. I couldn't stop smiling the whole time. This is the truth.Michael Caton is great as Darryl Kerrigan and Eric Bana was spot-on in his first movie role.This really is truer to how a lot of Australians are.....my step-dad is like it and half my cousins are pretty close to it. That's part of what makes it a hit in Australia -- the characters are so ridiculously believable.So, in short, THOROUGHLY enjoyed! I must find this movie in my local movie shop ASAP ) "},{"Title":"To many jokes to catch in one viewing","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just saw the Castle again on television. It is still funny and some of the quotes from the movie like straight to the pool room and dreamin have actually moved into the language. Many have explained the plot so I won't bother. The director Robb Sitch also did a television series called frontline, which is a very funny look at the world of television journalism. If you like the Castle I'm sure you will like frontline.One other piece of trivia, the Queens Council who eventually represents the family in court is played by Bud Tingwell. Mr Tingwell looks like a very gentle older man in the movie and it may surprise many to know that he was a WWII fighter pilot flying Spitfire's and Mosquito's in North Africa and Sicily. "},{"Title":"The Castle - Reviewed in Limerick","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While the characters may seem a bit sillier, The Kerrigan's are all too familiar, Bana's best role, Dale dug a hole, An Aus-com that is bound to fulfill ya!Read more limerick reviews or post your own at TheLimerickReview website!About UsWelcome all to The Limerick Review, For feedback on films; both old and new, We sort classic from crime, In a quick five-line rhyme, Just browse or leave your point-of-view.If there is a film you want reviewed let us know. You can also submit your own limerick reviews and we'll do our best to put them online. "}{"Title":"A great Family Movie","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The castle is a 1996 Australian Movie. The movie is about a family trying to save their house from being bought by the government. A family against the bureaucracy is a very common plot. Throughout history we have seen the little mans fight against the government that tries to take everything from them.The execution is also a tried and tested one. There is an emotional speech, initial disappointment , final savior.However what really makes the movie is not the plot. It is the characters. The great father character and the narrator. The narrator 's dialogues are extremely witty and very warm. The family has so much love for each other that it seems unreal but it doesn't matter.A movie with a saccharin sweet plot but it is for a nice afternoon with your family. "},{"Title":"review","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Castle is about a typical Aussie battler family who happen to live directly next to an airport in Melbourne, and by next to I mean that the runway ends about 100-200 yards from their house. Their family is extremely happy and almost every member of the family seems to be living a satisfying and 'fulfilling' life. All is well until one day the father, Darryl Kerrigan (Michael Caton), is approached and is told that he must sell his house because the airport is expanding. After an initial f**k off, Dale realizes that this is a serious threat and decides to fight the big business and take everyone to court. The result is a comical journey of the Kerrigan family struggle to keep their house and remain a tight knit happy family. The Castle is a small guy versus the big guys film that has a sentimental emotional core, and many jokes are derived from the story of a charming family defending their home against a compulsory acquisition.Performances from a talented Australia cast breathe life into a bunch of quirky but lovable characters. Michael Caton is especially great as the father of the family, Darryl Kerrigan, a lovable oaf with a heart of gold. Veteran actor Charles (Bud) Tingwell also appears as a wise lawyer who takes it upon himself to defend the Kerrigans.The script was written by Santo Cilauro, Tom Gleisner, Jane Kennedy and Sitch - all regulars on TV's The Panel. They have a sound sense of joke timing, and how to keep audiences interested. The Castle is a rare find; a funny, wonderful piece that shines in its own homely, honest way. "},{"Title":"The last great Australian film","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This remains one of the classics of Australian film-making. The comedy is brilliant, the human story beautifully told.The basic and sparse way in which this film was shot throws the emphasis onto the emotional drama, and also the comedy. There is not a lot of music, which means the emphasis is cast on the dialogue, which is where the genius of this film lays. The speech is so simple that it becomes a thousand times more powerful than lengthy, contrived speeches. It means that Darryl's plain views and opinions are expressed purely. What this also adds to the story is the ability to incorporate humour into every situation. The sparse dialogue allows the generation of an incredible amount of one-liners. It is one of the most quoted and easily quotable films in Australia, and if not the world, that is just because of its lower popularity.It's also a classic underdog story; the David and Goliath. Everyone loves to see the Aussie battler triumph against all odds. This is a perfect example.The acting is also a master-class in understatement. The characters are made impossibly believable by top-notch performances by great Australian actors, like Michael Caton and the legendary Bud Tingwell. The actors bring to life these stereotypes of Australian suburban life.All together it is a fantastic movie, and the last great Australian film. Since then, the market has been flooded by art-house dramas about single parents from immigrant backgrounds with drug problems, a child who hates them and an alcoholic partner they just met. It is a shining example of what Australian film-making can be. "},{"Title":"It's not a house, it's a home.","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The thing that I love about this movie is that Darryl never gives up on his home. It's a story of true inspiration and courage. Darryl and his happy family are living peacefully in a house by the airport. Then the government comes along and wants to knock down his house to expand the airport or something. I think they wanted to build a longer runway. Anyway, Darryl gets his neighbors together to team up and fight this. The funny part is when only one neighbor comes with him to court. After that, Darryl gets a lawyer but this lawyer is probably the worst lawyer I have ever seen in my life. I forgive Darryl because he doesn't know any better. It's actually pretty funny and I was very touched by how hard Darryl persisted to keep his home. No matter how much money they tried to offer him, it meant nothing to Darryl. That is what made the movie a great story. "},{"Title":"one of the best films I have ever seen. A great iconic film.","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'd heard raving reviews on this Australian icon film for years, and finally saw it. And I was not disappointed. This is a classic Australian satire comedy with a lot of stereotypes and classic dialogue. It addresses lots of social problems and also pokes fun at social problems, status and Australian life in general. This is much more of a look at Australian life and the 'great Australian dream' than any movie ever was or will be. It gave birth to some of the most classic one-liners, like this is going straight to the pool room, feel the serenity, what do you call this?, tell him he's dreaming and many more. The storyline is very believable, and you can actually see this happening. The casting is perfect, and no-one else could have played Darryl. It also gave many Australian actors their big breaks, and put them on the map. However it obviously is targeted at Australian audiences. The whole film is built on Australian humor, and it is understandable that many non- Australians will not 'get' this film, but for those who do, this film is pure genius. An absolutely hilarious and extremely well-made film! "},{"Title":"Such a great movie - a must see for all Australians","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I guess you'd have to live in Oz to appreciate how much The Castle has become apart of Australian folklore. With so many pretentious films these days, doing everything they can to confuse to the audience - this film is the exact opposite. This simple story of a simple middle-class family in the outer suburbs fighting to keep their house from being torn in favour of an expanding airport has become a classic, not just for its uniquely dry Aussie humour but also for its satirical analysis of Aboriginal land rights in Australia.Michael Caton is memorable as Darryl Kerrigan, the simple hard-working Aussie battler who loves his family and his home. Darryl becomes embroiled in a legal battle with the neighbouring airport and the Government, when they attempt to expand meaning that Darryl's house (among many) will need to make way.It's hard to explain why this film is so great to non-Australians (which is why I say its a must see for Aussie's only) but it so brilliantly encapsulates almost everything that is uniquely Australian. There are so many great lines in this, but perhaps the most memorable is Darryl's insistence that its not a house, its a home, you can't buy what I've got. Such a simple yet, profound truth - very attributable to Aboriginal land rights and Native Title which was (and still is) a contentious issue.European settlers in Australia, and Australian society (until 1992 would you believe) long denied Aboriginal land rights because it seemed to absurd to waste land that could be used for commercial use and money, they could not fathom how the spiritual and cultural connection that Aborigines proposed to have with the land could be more important than making money or that couldn't be compensated. In this case, the Airport and the Courts could not understand why Mr Kerrigan would not take this 'generous' compensation. Whilst, Darryl appears a simple man (and is really) his priorities and values make him a lovable character. Again, us Aussies always side with the battler, the underdog which is Darryl.Rob Sitch and Santo Cilauro (responisble for one the best Australian TV shows, Frontline) produce a tremendous script which is so laid back, funny and Australian but which also conveys a very important message.I really love this film, I urge any Aussie who hasn't checked it out to do so. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film on every level!","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw a small clip on sky movies advertising The Castle showing the family eating dinner, so i sky plussed it (tivo to Americans) thinking this was a movie about poking fun at insular hick Australian's. I didn't watch it for a week or so but when i had a spare few hours, i thought i would give it a go... well, what a fantastic movie! Funny throughout even in poignant moments but done with honesty without interference to the scene. This is one of those rare comedy's that have great character's who you will care about, even with all their misgivings. It has been showing here in the U.K. on sky indie for awhile and i urge you to catch it while you can... A wonderful film on every level! "},{"Title":"It Takes a Heap of Livin' to Make a House a Home.","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a quietly effective, warm comedy about an eccentric family in Melbourne who fight a conglomerate wanting to claim their house and land in order to expand the airport next door.The story reminds me a little of the nostalgic mid-Western American stories written by people like Ray Bradbury. Or, let me put it this way, if you've seen and enjoyed Jean Shepherd's A Christmas Story you'll enjoy this.It's funny. No question about it. But the Kerrigan family becomes real enough to us that we want them to win their case against the Brobdignagian Corporation just so that they can wind up pleased as punch. (They do, in a fairy-tale ending.) It's about as unpretentious as you can get. Everyone is quirky, blind to the faults of themselves and their friends, and socially artless. The Kerrigan's dim bulb of a lawyer is told by the judge that he has a weak case. He shambles up to the bench and asks in a hushed conspiratorial voice, Can you give me an angle? He's doing his best. He's even learned to read Roman numerals for the trial.There's probably not much point in going on with this. It's a slight enough movie, and describing it in much more detail would spoil some of the more amusing moments. It may take a few moments to get into it, but it's worth the little effort involved. Nice job. "},{"Title":"A nice story with plenty of Aussie humour.","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Castle has in spades what many comedies seem to forget they need. The Castle has heart. The characters and relationships in the movie are portrayed with genuine sincerity (particularly the Kerrigan family). In a lesser movie, characters as odd as those found in The Castle would simply be used as a framework on which to build jokes based on their superficial characteristics and quirks. But The Castle is wise enough to treat its main characters with the respect they deserve.Almost all of the humour in The Castle derives from its characters and the situations they find themselves in (for example, Dale's interest in obscure details of Con and Tracy's honeymoon such as what movies they saw on their plane flights). This means that the movie essentially has no missed jokes. It has slower parts but ultimately, since it is always committed to its story and characters, no scene is pointless (but they could of course be funnier or more exciting).I think this is the kind of movie that will grow well with multiple viewings. Like Buster Keaton's classics and the PIXAR movies, the more you watch them, the more you grow to love the characters and the more you appreciate and love the films. However, The Castle is not as funny as perhaps it could have been and it's probably not quite as revolutionary as Citizen Kane was. My point is that I don't think its entertainment vale will diminish much with age as is typical of most comedies (and movies in general).So, to summarise, I think The Castle was quite good. Not really laugh out loud hilarious but it has its moments and its only a short movie. It's even quite touching in some ways when you think about it. "},{"Title":"tell him he's dreaming...","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Never before have I wondered how much a pair of jousting sticks cost nowadays, although undoubtedly it depends on the condition.How would I pretty up an ergonometric chair? Have I ever really felt the self-satisfaction that a man gets from digging a hole? Or the panic when it starts filling with water? The Kerrigans are all that is good in the world.Forget clichéd corny Hollywood plots, this film is not tacky, it is simply honest and likable. it lays itself bare for you to see and says take me as I am.Some of the comments here are spot on, it's not a film that will tickle everyones fancy, but if you find it funny it will have you falling off the sofa.I'm going to Bonneydoon, I'm going to Bonneydoon, I'm going to Bonneydoon... ad infinium "}{"Title":"Lovely movie, please don't miss it.","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's quirky, it's funny, it has so many wonderful one liners that I can't even begin to quote. It is a testament to love, family and neighbourly trust and friendship, and is downright funny to boot. Ah I need more lines of text... OK well I thought the film is super brill....... The acting is actually understated even though it seems like it is over the top, it's not. It's just plain old good and funny. The little touches are fabulous. The actors all add wonderful facial expressions and in a world where we are increasingly divided along ethnic, cultural, religious and class lines this film shows clearly that the real enemy if actually corporate greed. OK...... now is that enough lines? o) "},{"Title":"It's a wonderful Aussie!","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Australians are so good at this kind of film. Would it be going too far to say that The Castle is almost a modern-day 'It's a Wonderful Life'? After all, it's about a happy, stable family who find themselves in trouble with Authority and only by sticking together with their friends (who are also threatened) are they able to fight back and win the day. It's a positive, upbeat and heartwarming film with no sign of over-dramatics or pathos, and no-one attempts to steal the show by over-acting. Everyone plays a small part, even the principals - and even the under-rated Charles Tingwell is content to underplay. All in all a wonderful story, well acted and directed with understanding. And it was made in just eleven days! Genius. Just one gripe - the title; 'The Castle' sounds like some kind of dungeons and dragons fantasy film and probably puts many people off. "},{"Title":"Charming film, great characters and superbly written.","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fantastic film. The American version has been heavily edited even to the point where some of the classic lines that make this film a top flick have been taken out.If you can, try and get your hands on an Original Australian version of the DVD.The acting is excellent with a superb mix of both young and veteran actors. One of the charms of this film is that it so easily could have been taking the pi** out of the type of people it portrays. Instead, it captures their inner warmth and love for their family...and their castle. "},{"Title":"The Aussie Comedy","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When you think of Aussie comedy films this immediately comes to mind. I don't know how many times I've watched it and it is still entertaining. However, it's not just the humour that attracts you to it, it's the heartwarming story. The concept of family is so real, a concept that many of us lack in our real lives. People outside Australia may not find it quite as funny as we do, but I have no doubt you'll still be touched by it's wonderful feel good story. If you want a humorous, uplifting night then watch this and 'The Dish', not quite as brilliant as 'The Castle' but still very worthwhile.I can't recommend The Castle highly enough. "},{"Title":"Satirical Look at the Suburbs.","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has become something of a cult film, about a little Aussie Battler taking on the big wheels when they try to seize his house for an airport development. Despite low production values and a look of made for TV, the cheeky script and Michael Caton's outstanding performance as the very Ocka but lovable Darryl Kerrigan saves the day (and the house) resulting in an enjoyable comedy. Strong supporting players Bud Tingwell, Stephen Curry, Ann Tenney, and Teriel Mora, bring it together. You may also spot a young Eric Bana before he came to fame as Chopper and The Hulk. Considering the limited budget and shooting time this has proved to be quite a hit. And The Castle's satirical view of suburbia is a comic tradition in Australia, begun by Barry Humphries, and recently continued by Kath and Kim. "},{"Title":"Best Aussie movie ever","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've baked a few Aussie movies in my reviews, probably because this movie is the standard to which they all should be compared. While Crocodile Dundee was made for the yanks, this movie was made for us.The Castle revolves around the Kerrigan family, a battling Aussie family faced with forced eviction from their home due a pending airport development. Not willing to take the $ and relocate, Darryl decides to take his case to the Supreme Court in order to protect his family. Doesn't sound hilarious, but the journey is a laugh a minute.This movie probably won't make a stack of sense to any non-Aussie's, but to Aussie's it exposes and pokes fun at the staples of our lifestyle and characteristics. Probably about 5 phrases from the movie have entered pop culture language here tell him he's dreaming, how's the serenity etc.Brilliantly written by the Working Dog team, and brilliantly casted, especially Michael Caton, Wayne Hope, Steve Curry and Bud Tingwell. "},{"Title":"Classic Aussie comedy","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A perfect mix of Aussie humor and sarcasm turns this low(er) budget Aussie film into an hour and a half of fun. While Aussies don't have many good or highly funded movies (apart from Mad Max) and none really good comedies at that. The team, leaded my Michael Caine and featuring a young Eric Bana captures the great Aussie theme of the Battler. It has many great qualities and showcases many of the qualities that resonate in Us Aussies daily lives. I first saw this movie when it came out, and fell in love with it. I do not know if it will work for overseas people, as some of the humour you may well just not get, but give it a go anyway.A must see, 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great light comedy, delving deeper into Aboriginal rights","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has, I feel, been largely misunderstood by most viewers. While being a comedy, playing on the working class culture in `middle' Australia, this film is actually a portrayal of Australian Aboriginal life, culture and political issues.Throughout the film the life of the central family, their patterns of thought and speech all mimic closely the ways of Aboriginal thinking, issues and the central concern of Aboriginal land rights.  The main premise being that no amount of money is worthy compensation for taking someone's home. It highlights the refreshing outlook of physical wealth not being important, family life, happiness at the sight of a meal and of a society totally out of their depth in the rapidly changing and advancing culture of normal modern life.Watching with this in mind brings a whole different angle to what on the surface appears to be a somewhat shallow, courtroom light comedy.  "},{"Title":"very very funny","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So hilarious!  I totally understand that some people won't like this film, and not because it's an Australian film.  It just appeals to a certain type of humour.  But I thought it was very funny.  Some great bitsThe $15 genuine Rolex - He said he'd mail the warrantee laterThe As seen on TV sign outside Dennis Denuto's office at the endDarryl Kerrigan's version of a patioThere was only one thing Dad liked better than Hey Hey It's Saturday, and that was The Best of Hey Hey It's Saturday.Darryl's love of the power lines and Man's ability to generate electricityCoco's son, named Son of CocoThe great thing about living right next to an airport is that you can walk home!Just the ... vibe of the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Local knowledege makes this movie!!!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie a few times on video and catch it regularly channel surfing on Foxtel. I cannot seem to change the channel after that. A smirk always emerges and I am in disbelief that a feeling this good has been captured on film. Maybe its the VIBE. Working dog, the films writers and producers have done for The Castle what Larry David and Jerry did for Sienfeld. Did you ever notice!!! We find Sienfeld funny here only because so much of our programming on TV here is American so we understand most of the jokes.There are so many Local 'isms' that even some Aussies out of Melbourne or in the outback won't get some of the laughs. (Kerrigans Tows trucks and Wogs and cash for Example) I would think the morals of the story would transfer across well to other countries but it would not be the hilarious movie that I found it to be.I am sure in the states New Yorkers would find even funnier stuff out of Sienfeld with things like the Soup Nazi, car parks, and who is that guy from the yankees?The Castle truly captures a simple Aussie family, those that  find it unfunny are those who are it and those that cannot relate to it (Wealthy). Most Australian families particularly those that had kids in the late sixties, seventies and early eighties have been in the Kerrigans position before or have family that is. The Torana, Boat, Cortina, Commodore line is part of Australian culture and can be seen in many homes thoughout the country.The best Australian movie ever made and if you have ever lived here it is a must see. I have a copy in MY pool room.9.5/10 "}{"Title":"Brilliant Aussie comedy","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If your an aussie, and hated this movie its impossible. When Tow Truck Driver Daryl Kerrigan (brillian Michael Caton), who lives right next to the airport, he is forced to move, with a compulsory aquasition, and being a dinkum aussie that he is asks for help in his son's lawyer Denis Denuto (Tirel Mora, who lost Daryls sons case) Daryl likes him, and even says But ya did ya best when Denise reminds Daryl he lost the case.But when Daryl by chance meets Judge Laurie Hammil (aussie tv/movie veteran Bud Tingwell) he takes it to the high court. One of the funniest, if not THE funniest aussie movie ever made.9/10 "},{"Title":"Look at us, we're lovin' it","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those subtle movies that the more you watch it, the more it gets into your soul.  My family and friends use a lot of quotes from the movie and it never fails to bring some laughs.  I don't care that the Americans didn't like it as much, I want to keep it all for ourselves.  Rob Sitch and co. are geniuses, truly champagne comedy!! "},{"Title":"An absolute riot!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was very funny, very clever and very charming. However, I think it helps to have grown up in Australia to fully appreciate the humour. I can see many of the funniest jokes being totally lost on a non-Aussie audience.I saw this film on an international flight. My wife said that I was the only one on the plane who was laughing. She said that I was laughing so loudly that she wanted to disown me. For those who get the joke, this movie is a classic. Others will either appreciate it as an enjoyable, low-budget comedy or be totally bewildered how anyone could find this funny.I highly recommend this film to anyone who is a fan of The Late Show and Frontline. I guarantee you will absolutely love this film.  "},{"Title":"Often hilarious tale of one family's fight","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fans of The Late Show and Frontline from Australian television will love this playfully satirical little fable about the Kerrigan family and their fight against eviction from their home.Full of sharp tongue-in-cheek humour and a perfectly-toned narration, it keeps the laughs coming right until the end. "},{"Title":"Wonderful but ultimately disappointing","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The writers of `The Castle' are stars, possibly even saviours, of Australian television - responsible for `The D-Generation' (promising), `The Late Show' (probably the funniest show our country has produced), and `Frontline' (a scathing Australian version of Canada's `The Newsroom' and Britain's `Drop the Dead Donkey', but much better than either).  It was with `Frontline' that they demonstrated their ability to turn out tight scripts in no time at all.  Then they made `The Castle' - written, so they say, in less than a week.They should have taken longer.  Cinema isn't television.  It's funny, as you'd expect; and however manipulative it may be you'll surely be charmed the first time you see it.  But I've recently seen it a second time - it was a bit of a downer.  The sentimental moments are often too glibly inserted, and it's astonishing how little happens to resolve the story.  The ending is really, and I find it painful to say this, an utter cheat.Still, humour is humour nothing can detract from that.  I'm not at all sorry the film did so well at the box office.  I just hope that Cilauro, Gleisner and Sitch trust themselves enough to aim higher the next time around. "},{"Title":"Funniest Australian film ever made !","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is really great in many ways.  The first five minutes are really funny.  The things the kerrigans do are funny and there a lot of hidden jokes that make you laugh.  The funniest bit is where they go to bonnie doon and have a holiday.  I recommend this to anyone who wants a really good laugh.  My favourite characters are Feruk and Denes Denuto. "},{"Title":"Best Aussie Movie Ever Made!!!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Castle has to be the best Australian movie ever to be made. Its humorous, compelling and loveable cast and crew make this movie an all time purchase, where ever you are in the world. "},{"Title":"We can write movies too!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Australia isn't known for it's high speed car chases and jumping of high-rise buildings kinds of movies. For us, nothing will beat a good story and a good laugh. A good laugh? The Castle tops this. A side-splitting nonstop laugh! Anyone who liked this movie has seen it a least twice. Not because they wanted to see it again, because they had to see it again. You miss so much the first time too. Everyone is laughing so hard, you have to see it a second to get the parts you missed, and then you see it a third, and a fourth, and then buy it on video. It isn't a big screen movie, though it is fun to watch it with a lot of people to have a good laugh with.This movie wasn't anything big and drastic. The script took five days, the filming took eleven. Just for the record, the house used really is there. There is really a family that live nextdoor to the airport! They just borrowed the house for a few of days!This is a classic upon classic. The only reason it didn't win an oscar was because it wasn't released in America until a couple of years later (it was actually released the same week as the phantom menace). For Aussies, it's a fantastic movie. A lot of people can see themselves as the Kerrigans, with the trading posts and the Camira, Commodore and Torana.This is the perfect movie and it deserves nothing less than five stars. "},{"Title":"I laughed till I cried","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. The story of a poor family battling against the government is uplifting, augmented by the strong bonds we see between the members of the Kerrigan family. A story which enforces our tendency to barrack for the underdog, while keeping us more than entertained. The humour is clever and at times quite subtle. A movie which won't offend anyone and is guaranteed to have any person with a sense of humour rolling on the floor with laughter. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've ever seen quote after quote after quote!","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie at a 16th birthday party sleepover with my friends; it's now the most quoted movie in our year level at KAGS! Kickboxing, 24 hours, a daay! Dad, I dug another 'ole. We love this movie, and so will you!  "}{"Title":"Warm and Fuzzy Feeling","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a delightful movie. As an Australian, from a working class family, I could relate to the warmth and love the family felt for each other.Isn't it great to see family values triumph over corporate greed.A terrific feel good movie.If anyone claims they do not like this movie, tell them they are dreaming. "},{"Title":"Another quality Aussie comedy with a quirky approach","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Castle is another fine Australia comedy in the tradition only Australians can offer.  Unfortunately for Americans viewing this film in the USA, the dialogue was changed in a few places because Americans, by and large, lack an appreciation for the subtle Oz humor that pervades the film. It does not distract from the movie in any way, however, as an American for almost a decade living in the Land Down Under, Oz humor is a much desired, much enjoyed quality of life my friends in the States just cannot understand.   Sit back, have a grinner or two and remember, we *really* are like that here! )  Un huh. "},{"Title":"Are we laughing with, or at, these folks?","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Funny, socially-relevant, warm, well-acted.  I wonder, though, if most of the audience isn't laughing at -- not with -- the central characters' working class lives, and many of their beliefs, homes, and customs.  If so, this condescension undercuts the sense of morality or justice the film attempts to develop. "},{"Title":"Americans will love this movie as much as they did in Oz.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seen this movie several times, most recently in LA as it was opening.  So exciting to know American audiences are enjoying the same things about this film as the Aussies did - the strong bond between the family, their passion for their life and the ability to laugh at them without feeling bad about it.And I can't get enough of Tiriel Mora (Dennis Denuto).  >  "},{"Title":"a joyful hour and a half","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Saw the coming attractions for this little film and it looked entertaining.  Was even more pleasantly surprised seeing it in it's entirety.  Besides a story that was   different, we were able to understand the Aussie accent.  Came out saying the little  guy still stands a chance.  Loved it. "},{"Title":"A good, feel-good film","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had no idea what to expect, and I thoroughly enjoyed the movie.  All aspects of the movie are well done, and who cares if it's predictable -- it is still funny.  In fact, this movie has some of the best courtroom scenes I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"Aussie comedy at its finest...","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very Australian film. Aussie culture is presented before your very eyes in this hilarious film. My favorite character is the Lebanese neighbourSo? Planes fly over. Plane fly over in Beirut, it drop bomb! I like plane here.Also, you gotta love the small-town lawyer guy, and the bit with the gates is fantastic.This film is coming out in the USA in May. Go see it, all you American readers (and everyone else, too...) Otherwise, Suffer in your jocks!  "},{"Title":"Darryl vs Goliath","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Castle is probably one of the top 5 Australian films of all time. Its appeal lies not only in its warm and loving characters, but its ability to combine all of the idiosyncracies of Australian culture into 1 family. The film is made by the Working Dog crew, still known by many as the D-Generation, who spawned hit shows in Australia like The Late Show, The D-Generation, The Panel, and Frontline. Their incisive humour and storytelling ability, surely make them the best contemporary Australian entertainers. "},{"Title":"So, so, true..","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Aside from being hilarious, this is a genuine look at the way many real australians live, and laugh. I know people just like this! "},{"Title":"You'll cak you daks","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have never seen a movie, quite so funny.  I laughed so hard the first time I saw it that I missed half the jokes and had to see it again. Created by one of the best comedy teams to ever be given the opportunity to make a movie and no doubt we will die laughing at the next effort as well "}{"Title":"it's excellent!!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the best australian movies and is very unique because it is australian, funny, humourous, yet manages to care and make you feel emotional!!...hopefully, the american version has not been changed so drastically so that all of the wit and parody has been lost as it made up such a large content of the australian version!....you have to see this movie to know what i'm on about!!  "},{"Title":"the vibe","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don't forget the funniest lines in the movieIt's just..... the vibeGotta love the serenityGREAT MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw it at cinemas a few laughs B-Americans should see it especially  "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Talk about laugh!  Another fine piece of champagne comedy from the boys of D-Gen fame.  Very Melbourne humour but accessible enough for all nationalities.  (I'm sure many jokes went over the heads of the yanks, however)  Bonnie Doon - now there's a holiday destination!  "},{"Title":"Amusing Aussie regional comedy","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Castle reminds me a bit of Gregory's Girl. It's not that these films share similar plot-lines, they don't. It's just that they're both comedies with very regionalized characters with awful haircuts, shot on a tiny budget, with a dated cheesy soundtrack and zero cinematic style. Both films, too, have deep affection for their central characters. While I do prefer Gregory's Girl, this is because I can relate to it more. I found The Castle to be amusing as opposed to laugh-out-loud hilarious. Its story about the little man against the big corporation wasn't in truth all that interesting but it did serve the film with a narrative thrust to base its characters around. And I guess that really this film is very much more about the characters than anything else plot-related or otherwise. I watched the film with an Aussie who seemed to pick up more specific things about these people than I ever could. It does seem that The Castle is a film that is unashamedly primarily made by Australians for Australians. That's not to say that most Aussies resemble this family of honourable half-wits. They do not, but the unpretentious attitude of the Kerrigan family and friends is one that seems to fit the rest of the world's perceptions of the inhabitants of Oz.If I'm being honest I found the story of the court battle against the big business to be the least satisfying aspect to this film. It was much better when it just concentrated on the little things like its characters quirks. The whole court battle almost seemed forced, as though the writers felt that a character-driven plot-less film would not have been enough. I think it would have though and the whole little man against The Man stuff made it all less believable and less interesting.Overall though, this is a good film. It's not essential but it will provide you with a few laughs along the way. Oh and another thing, the boy who narrates the story sports a mullet so disgusting that I swear it made me feel a little unwell. "},{"Title":"A very 'Oz' movie.","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Having said this however, I can see how many people from other countries don't like this movie, it relies heavily on the laconic australian humour that most other countries seem to lack, it doesn't revolve around slapstick or simply trying to 'gross out' its audience (any Faralley brothers movie, and many recent comedies). If you're an aussie there's a fair chance you'll love this film, if not, well watch it anyway, but don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"SIMPLE MEN","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The castle is just one of those movies that go unnoticed but they tell more than tons of blockbusters. This Australian movie deals about a simple family, the Kerrigans. No one  cares about them, they just life their life in their house which is the area in where all tears and laughs are gathered. Father Kerrigan may be a simple man who acts a bit stupid and who is enjoying simple things like his wife who is baking a cake, but he loves it. He has three sons, one is constantly reading adverts, the other is specialised in making useless things, the third one sits in jail for a stupid robbery and his blonde stupid daughter who has married a kickboxingfanatic. All goes well till the day the neighbours (huuuum, an airport!) want to expand and tell to leave their house. What then follows is a battle from a man who cant cope with the unjustice. He hires an advocate who doesn't even can handle the basics of law and during the battle the viewer faces both melodramatic scenes and black humour (he cries for victory when he actually lost the case) and during 80 minutes you can laugh your ass off with the simplicity of life. The castle isn't great movieart but director Rob Stich reaches the equivalent of both early Stephen Frears and Mike Leigh.  "},{"Title":"a simple comedy","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Castle is an enjoyable film.  It is plain, one dimensional, and predictable, and, yes, funny.  The characters can be described in the same manner.  It has a couple of deeper themes like home and family, hence the title, and the average man vs. the big corporation, but all in all it was very lightweight.  I think I wanted more substance but I guess that was not the intent.  One thing that puzzles me is this film was rated R.  With the exception of a couple four letter words (unless I'm forgetting something) this film was very tame.  Again something to think about when violence and some sexual situations can get a PG-13.  If you accept The Castle for what it is, it is entertaining.  Three stars!!! "},{"Title":"An Australian's home is his...","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Home is where you belong, and it's where you feel comfortable, so it doesn't matter what it looks like, or if other people don't respect it in the way that you do. It's easy to judge by appearances, and so many might think that the Kerrigan family represent the ultimate in unsightly low class vulgarity. After spending enough time in their company however, it becomes easier to admire the spirit of togetherness that exists within the family. They demonstrate this solidarity when the corporate money-men come calling, and each member of the clan stands together to show that you can't put a price upon happy memories.Much of the humour in this scenario comes from the frequent repetition of the idiosyncrasies that these relatives share. However, this same reliance upon quirky characteristics and catchphrases to make us laugh also detracts from the film a little, as much of the comedy begins to feel slightly recycled just at the point where the details of the plot start to kick in. Still, the endearing ineptitude shown by these individuals at times does prompt more than a few hearty laughs - my personal favourite symbol of the Kerrigan's independent attitude being the pool table that also serves as a beacon for the family's proudest achievements...It's a quaint - if very slight - construction for a comedy. As the film is insistent upon telling us, beauty lies in the eye of the beholder, and so I can definitely appreciate why there are plenty of people who harbour a great deal of affection for this story. "},{"Title":"Tell him he's dreaming!","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Funny, heartwarming Australian comedy that follows the Kerrigan family's fight to save their home from being seized by the government. The fact that the house is right next to the airport doesn't matter to Daryl Kerrigan Sometimes it feels like they're gonna land right on top of ya. It's his 'castle' and he won't move for anyone. You can't help but get behind the relentlessly optimistic Daryl and his family. They are a bunch of oddball characters with some great phrases and mannerisms. The morals of family and togetherness are prevalent through the film. The only thing I can pick at (if I must) would be the seemingly unnecessary bookending of the story by the son Dale. The film is not told from his point of view and he doesn't narrate, so what's the point? Apart from this an hilarious watch, completely illustrating the spirit of the 'Aussie battler'. "}{"Title":"Funny and up-lifting!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, mainly as the humour is NOT American.  Americans basically have very limited humour, movie and tv wise, they basically laugh at themselves and laugh at everything and anything!  See some of their silly and far-fetched trashy comedy shows for e.g.  Australians only laugh when something is funny, they do not laugh simply to be stupid or for the sake of it, unlike Americans.  That is why I feel the Australians have a more cultured and refined sense of humour.  They aren't shamelessly falling about the place in laughter every 5 secs like Americans, but they laugh when it is appropriate, and when they do laugh, it is genuine humour.  I give this move an 8 out of 10.  Good acting, good story-line, good characters, good humour. "},{"Title":"Does the underdog really win in this scenario?","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie, The Castle, is about a family who, for very little money, built a house close to an airport. One day the airport authority contacts the family and offers them money to purchase their land, because the airport authority wants to extend the run-way.This movie is a farce. This movie is on the borderline of being cruel and unacceptable - with respect to the rights and dignities of the lowest class in society, the kind that cannot really defend themselves through legal counsel and who are portrayed as being very un-educated in this movie. It is the idea that some individuals may find this type of movie to be one of black comedy - and hence funny - but I disagree. I think it is kind of vulgar to portray individuals of the lowest class to be so emotional, un-intelligent and in a sense out of control.In The Castle, it is by chance that an educated lawyer takes a personal interest in their case, and it is through this connection which allows the family to win.It seems that the rich needed to save the poor. I disagree with this concept and much prefer movies where the individuals figure out their own creative ways to win, instead of needing assistance from others to solve their problems.In the movie Army of Shadows, 1969, the characters always seem to come up with fantastic ways to transcend the negative. The lead characters always seem to be fighting the negative forces with such finesse and even in their darkest hour, the lead character seems to by-pass the inescapable and to me it is through this creative problem solving which enables the characters to lead their lives with such a noble existence.Their souls never get captured, they never bow down and always seem to win.The Castle was stereotypical. It was very hierarchy - power oriented, and it did not bring in any new material which could inspire the viewer.Written by Annuska Victoria, British Columbia Canada 2013 "},{"Title":"Meek shall inherit the earth","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's goofy, it's too unreal to believe, but if your hearts are light and your mind a bit dense, you might enjoy The Castle.  This film has been maligned as a one-joke movie - the revenge of the dumb-bunnies.  I suppose I could see it that way except for one endearing quality of this film - if this is a put-on, no one is really trying to put-on.  This movie creates simpletons as a fine art.  The plot, concerning the government's right to buy up houses near the runway of a Melbourne, Australia airport, is the least interesting part of The Castle, the characters are.  There is Darryl Kerrigan, Dad,(Michael Caton) who admires electrical towers overlooking his property, the landfill his house sits on (which is contaminated with lead among other things), and the hideous noise of incoming planes.  He even treasures the 'serenity' of another house he has in the country because he can smell the aroma of diesel.  If a man's home is his castle, then another cliché would also apply here - ignorance is bliss.  There is the mother, Sal,(Anne Tenney) who throws herself at making strange arts and crafts (fringes on ceiling lamps and oddly shaped pottery mugs) and at cooking nutritious meals just so Dad can joyfully ask, 'what's that?', and she can respond positively, 'it's meatloaf'.  There are the dim-wit looking children - Dale, the film's dull narrator; Steven, the trading post fanatic; Wayne, the oldest doing time for theft who considers a conversation intelligible by responding 'good' to each question; and Tracy, the smart one in the family because she got to finish college (beauty college, that is).   Throw in a less than adequate lawyer named Denny Denuto (Tiriel Mora), who couldn't get Wayne off for his crime but tries mightily to convince the judge that his defense against 'compulsory acquisition' is the 'vibes' of the Australian Constitution.   The Castle appears to be a drool film that is easily forgettable, except that if you think back about this film years later, the one compelling thought might be, 'there for the grace of God go I'.  For this film does remind us of our own foibles and inadequacies.  And it does so in such a natural way that you can't really put it down.  When Denny Denuto dictates notes on his recorder and then proceeds to listen to the recorder as he is typing those same notes or when Mom recalls how she first met Dad at the greyhound park and how much she admired him for not taking her away from her date, they are shooting directed from the heart, not some staged characters.   "},{"Title":"Mediocre Comedy","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Castle is from Australia and refers to the saying a man's home is his castle; in this case, of the Kerrigan family. A mom, a dad, two sons, and a daughter. It opens with one of the sons as narrator. He voices over the scene of his father standing beside their house by an airport runway. He explains how his pop hot a great deal on the property because of location, location, location. A huge power line with big steel towers also runs through their land.The look is similar to an old Saturday Night Live sketch with Dan Aykroyd and John Belushi extended to an hour and a half, and therein lies the problem. The naive cuteness of these oddballs wears thin rather quickly. The airport is about to expand and is buying the houses under what would be eminent domain here in the United States. They refuse to sell and go to court with an inept lawyer to fight the order. After losing, a counsel who is a constitutional expert represents him in Australia's Supreme Court. As a comedy, it just isn't very funny, and as a message concerning the mistreatment of Aborigines, it is extremely shallow. The Castle is a mediocre film with an average cast and so so script. "},{"Title":"...dreaming","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here is the premise of this Aussie stinker. A family cracks sitcom style jokes while they fight off an airport trying to make extensions with their house in the way. What is really sad is that because of the sitcom style jokes they're hard to take seriously when the movie pretty much forces you to at the end, with sitcom jokes that make out the family is a bunch of idiots then show me why THAT is enough ground to care for them.Oh the ending - THEY WIN, that is the ending that I could see coming as soon as the complication started. What happens the previous 2 times they're in court is cringe worthy to say the least because they are SO sure they'll win.If you want a decent Aussie comedy that knows what it's trying to be look no further than the movie Hercules Returns.Oh, FYI this movie was a money-maker in the literal sense of the word - it was shot on a next-to-nothing budget so these filmmakers could fund The Dish. "},{"Title":"D-Gen effort not as good as I thought","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not even as good as I thought (or hoped) it possibly might have been is this first time feature effort from the D-Generation team.The attempt at making a multi-layered satire of life in the working class suburbs for the average Aussie battlers falls flat, and all we're left with is a poorly dressed up, one-joke film that is not very funny. The Castle never manages to break you up, and much of the comedy is nothing but annoying. Especially bad is the running gag involving the dopey son.To top it off, the guys have tried to add a serious message - a dramatic element - to the film, and it would be an understatement to say this is misplaced.The cast end up looking silly trying to make something out of nothing, with the exception perhaps of Anne Tenney who manages her one-dimensional mum from the west quite well.Tuesday, June 17, 1997 - Waverley Pinewood Cinema "},{"Title":"A poorly crafted movie, if it can even be called that","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Castle is an example of poor Australian filmography. Not only does it conform to stereotypes as a last ditch attempt to humor, it does so blatantly obviously that it is far short of many of the great pieces of cinema that emerge from here. Satire is primarily used to evoke laughs from the viewer, but the result is a one and a half hour cringe-fest, with poor writing, poor direction and poor scripting. The actors are a class below average, and we are not positioned to sympathise with the Kerrigen's in anyway throughout the plight although that was the authors invitation. Essentially, the Castle is about bogans being bogans, and we are meant to laugh at this? The difference between the Simpsons and this is that the Simpsons is cleverly written, with charm and heart. The Castle is crude in nature, so much so that any form of empathy is lost in the first few minutes. Overall, I strongly recommend you miss this one out and go watch an actual film. "},{"Title":"Too good natured not to like on some level","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Castle is all about an Aussie family man (Canton) who takes on a powerful consortium in court to save his home from being sold out from under him for the purpose of airport expansion. This film relies heavily on the quirky charm of the likeable and always upbeat protag who is certain his property is going to appreciate in value because it is so close to the airport anyone who flies won't have far to drive. Etc. Weak in production value, The Castle establishes its formula early on and continues to exploit it throughout the film making it somewhat redundant and predictable. Nonetheless, many will find the characters just too good natured to fault in this David vs Goliath tale from down under. Recommended for those with a taste for Aussie humor. (C+) "},{"Title":"This humour is not for everyone","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unfortunately it didn't amuse me much, and I am australian. This is one of those movies that takes just about every single stereotype of aussie suburban life and attempts to make a joke from it. So depending on what turns you on, some will find it absolutely hilarious, and others like me will just cringe. There's no real in between with this one. It was well received in Australia so you cannot deny its popularity, however I don't see it representative in any way. My mum (who is European) watched it with me and after having to explain most of the jokes to her all she could say was but why is that funny? So I doubt this is something that many European or American audiences would enjoy.   "},{"Title":"REPETITION","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film by accident, and must admit it did keep my interest. There are some undeniably funny moments, and the stark Australian setting makes a change from the glamour of L.A. It's not quite strong enough cinematically, and the racism and swearing seem strangely out-of-place in a feel-good tale.  "}{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This may be somewhat biased, as I could only stomach the first ten minutes, but this movie came highly recommended and I cannot, for the life of me think why.It seemed like a very 'regional' movie, by that I mean, you'd have to know the residents and geographical locations to fully appreciate and understand its finely tuned humor. The characters came across as 'oh wow - aren't we quirky'. Instead they were irritating.The Castle strived to be the kind of kitchen sink comedy by Mike Leigh - with his impeccable dialogue (ad-libbed or otherwise), memorable characters and piercing social commentary - but The Castle came up poorly.And all this in the first ten minutes... Oddly enough, I also rented Amazon Women on the Moon - an old favorite of mine and twice as enjoyable...  "},{"Title":"there's a reason it didn't last long in US theatres","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While there are a few laughs, it is a very repetitive sort of humor.  Kind of like a bad sitcom or those Saturday Night Live skits that just go on and on with the same joke.  It does improve noticeably towards the end, but even then the outcome is completely predictable long before it enters the final act.  "},{"Title":"Cheap class humor","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Look at the amusing lower class people. Ha ha, they are not as urbane as we are. They are enthusiastic about simple houses and food, and they don't want to travel.The distributors managed to convince a few reviewers that this was the Full Monty of 1997. It wasn't though, not even close. The producers have no real affection for the characters. It's painful to watch.When they fear they're running out of steam, they pull in ethnic accent humor too. Weak. "},{"Title":"hated it","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  wow, I know comedy is a matter of taste, but I am flabbergasted at all the glowing reviews. I adored Local Hero, just rented this, and hated it. The corners of my mouth never moved upwards once. The humor in the movie mainly consists of snickering at what rubes, bumpkins, and generally simpletons the protagonists are. For those who disagree, then tell me, what IS supposed to be funny in this movie? A funny line, a funny visual, anything? "},{"Title":"lackluster, laughless comedy","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Castle, a highly praised Australian farce, is a decidedly minor, lackluster and virtually laughless installment in the recently very popular genre known as the offbeat working class comedy.  This vain attempt to mine the territory exploited so successfully a few years back in The Full Monty, mistakes quirkiness for humor, so much so that it is not overstating it to say that there is nary a laugh in the film's entire (and blessedly brief) 84 minute running time.The film hits the wrong note from the very beginning with its overly cutesy premise a family of preposterously upbeat and utterly addled Australians, living a mere stone's throw away from a major airport, are threatened with eviction from the hovel they call home to make way for some airport expansion. The concept of a house situated virtually on a busy runway may strike some people as the height of hilarity, but it is a joke that grows wearisome when stretched to the extent of a full length movie.  The father inspires his family on a daily basis with his Pangloss-like view of the best of all possible worlds, and it is he, when confronted with this uncaring menace from the outside world, who leads the fight to save his homestead and those of his neighbors.The Castle might have been a very wild, daring comedy had the writers not settled for a cast of characters so devoid of basic human intelligence that they emerge as pathetic rural caricatures towards which the audience can feel patronizingly superior.  This slackjawed quality of mindless innocence on the part of most of the characters results in a broadness in the comedy that essentially robs it of any sophistication.  Joke after joke simply falls flat, and the constant repetition of various series of jokes (the father's inane daily awe at the mundane culinary concoctions of his wife, his obsession with achieving cutthroat bargains on used items etc.) drains what little humor the comical concepts carry the first time around.The Castle emerges as a well-intentioned nice film, but it commits the gravest sin for which no comedy can be forgiven - it is simply not funny. "}]