[{"Title":"A cute, funny, guilty pleasure type of movie","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The story is nothing new, the acting ain't that great, but Two if by Sea has its moments.  It's an entertaining little movie, and Sandra Bullock's mixture of charm, sarcasm, and innocence play out well.  The movie knows it's not too sophisticated or shrewd (even the cop says of his own investigation, this is too easy) and it's a great film to watch on an afternoon or just to be entertained.  If you're a Sandra fan, you'll like it no matter what.  ) "},{"Title":"Funny movie, but more appealing to Denis Leary fans","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I am a big fan of Denis Leary, and I thought this was a damn funny movie.  The plot is cut-and-dry (the little plot that exists), but it works out nicely as a comedy, mostly due to Leary's funny dialogue and humorous arguments between him and Bullock.  I think Bullock was miscast, though.  She did an OK job, but her accent drifted many times.  If you like Leary, you'll probably have a great time.  I especially loved the scene where Leary was going fishing and he shoots one of the fish.  Then he cooks it up, serves it up to Bullock and she spits out a bullet.  That was classic.  But for non-Leary fans...you might not enjoy it as much.  I don't consider him an acquired taste, but his foul-mouthed banter doesn't appeal to everyone. "},{"Title":"Minor gem","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A blonde Sandra B. and her beau of longstanding, played by the equally blond Dennis Leary, romp their way through a romantic comedy having to do with a bunch of small-time crooks and a very valuable stolen painting. Shot in scenic Nova Scotia, the backgrounds are absolutely gorgeous, and Bullock and Leary have great rapport that makes their rocky relationship very believable. FBI agent Yaphet Koto is along for the ride in a role similar to the one he essayed in MIDNIGHT RUN. Leary co-wrote this, In a manner reminiscent of Donald Westlake -- which is a very good thing, if you know who Westlake is. If not, look him up. Leary is consistently Leary (maybe he was born a fully developed adult), while Bullock in 1996 is growing into the superstar that we know today. She's playing a role that might have been Julia Roberts' a few years before, as she did in several other pictures prior to SPEED and MISS CONGENIALITY, which she made her own. "},{"Title":"A little harsh John Wright the movie is pretty decent","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is best explained by the staff at IMdb.I thought it was funnier than s**t.The plot wasn't really important for this movie to be worth watching.I haven't seen Leary ever play a bad role or stand up & I guess one would have to understand his humor,and if you do you will enjoy Two if by Sea.If you don't like a movie,one can criticize,without such an outrage of anger.Come on!It's just the movies on a friendly database.Lighten up Mr. Wright. "},{"Title":"Romantic Comedy at its best","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Roz Sandra Bullock Has hooked up with Frank Dennis Leary, a small time crook who is always looking for that big job to retire on who is fed up with him not treating her as a lady, she reluctantly ends up in this little coastal town to do a deal with the stolen painting on their last job, where they try to fit in among the residents living there, when Roz finds how the other half live and likes it, she also finds a love.A very funny romantic comedy, look out for the scene Sandra's getting changed, and on the bed with Dennis.  "},{"Title":"one beautiful movie....","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Two if by sea never received the great reviews it really deserved. Maybe its because i´m a big fan of Sandra Bullock and an even bigger fan of Denis Leary this movie is so good to me, but a lot of my friends really like it too. Its a lovely story which in the end really comes down to one thing, Love!. I have seen this movie 10 times and it never gets me bored. its full of funny lines and romantic/sad scenes. Denis Leary proves that besides being a great stand up comedian he is also one great actor. Two if by sea is not the best movie ever made but it sure is one of them.Go rent it, be open minded about it, and the honest acting really gets to you. "},{"Title":"Lighthearted entertainment","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Maybe there's a reason people who live in provinces are calledprovincial.  Perhaps they expect a Citizen Kane or a Godfatherevery time they step into a theater.  Great movies are few and farbetween, and about the best you can usually hope for is acoherent tale told in an entertaining way.And that  Two If By Sea certainly is.  I give it 9 out of 10 for itshilarity, subtle performances, niceness, great scenery, and overallexecution.  It's a warm movie filled with lots of really zingy littlefunnies.  It never strays far from its agreeable theme of true love,and when it does it takes delightful tangents into  pure slapstickgoofiness, devastatingly piercing pricking of the neuveau riche,adolescence, and even the plight of the city dweller who thinkshe's out in the country (as when a terrified Leary draws a .38 on atame deer).  You have to admire a director who can take as manypotshots at life as Airplane! does, and still stay within the contextof a story as cohesive as this one is.Actually this is one of Denis Leary's finest hours.  He portrays aguy who gets along in life by being tough and irascible, although atheart he's hard pressed to cope with the world in general andcompletely confused by love.  Sure his character comes across asgrating -- it's supposed to.  But if you can't see past the facade tothe nice guy underneath, you're not much of a moviegoer.To his excellent work the director adds Sandra Bullock's character,who is just enough not satisfied with a simple, linear life to throwLeary into one tailspin after another.  Their chemistry is oftenprickly, but always centered around the movie's core theme.  And ittakes real talent to portray her part with the touch of frustration shehas, without coming across as a bitch.  Bullock impressed me byachieving just the right tone.And in the end, what more could you want?  The good guys all findways to win and the bad guy loses his claim to fame and goesdown in flame, blame and shame.  Whoooeee! "},{"Title":"Charming romantic comedy about two lovers on the lam that'll make you laugh and smile from start to finish","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" TWO IF BY SEA, in my opinion, is a charming romantic comedy about two lovers on the lam that'll make you laugh and smile from start to finish. If you ask me, Frank (Denis Leary) and Roz (Sandra Bullock) made an absolutely cute couple. I just don't understand why Frank felt he had to pull off that one last job before making amends with Roz. However, when she impersonated Homer Simpson, I laughed really hard. Someday, I'd like to go to somewhere in New England for a vacation. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that the production design was nice, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the performances were great. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this romantic comedy about two lovers on the lam that'll make you laugh and smile from start to finish to any Denis Leary or Sandra Bullock fan who hasn't seen it. "},{"Title":"not as bad as I had heard","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I avoided watching this for quite a while because I had heard it wasn't too good. But actually, I enjoyed it...enough that I have watched it twice now. I have a question the the data base cannot answer for me, though. The actor who plays the lacky to FBI agent O'Malley...he's not listed, but he has to be Dave Coulier from Full House. If anyone knows could they email me, please. Thanks "},{"Title":"Movies that are panned can sometimes be enjoyed","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Of course, I'm from Boston and Dennis' in-jokes about Bostonians gets me, especially since I've seen the Roast of Leary. And anyone who puts out a fund for firemen has my vote, as Dennis does. I loved the ode to plasterers so subtly portrayed in the finale.I also loved his deliberate skewering of the rich folks at the cocktail party, but wouldn't it be nice just once if a writer (Leary) once said to himself What is the movie audience expecting here? What can I put in here that would destroy this? How about 2 rich folks who could confront him with his deliberate How can I best offend you? manners, showing that it is HE who may be the reverse snob? REquires perhaps more subtlety than Dennis has. He is a great writer for 'all guys, all the time' shows so how about something confronting his homophobic or even homophilic attitudes? I ask too much, I know.and who owned the sailboat that kept sailing in and out of our view at the end of the road in the finale? Someone who Dennis owed money to? It was totally out of place, like a kid who keeps running into the camera's view just to get on TV.Just another nit You can't have sex in the way Dennis was trying to have it in the car, unless you're hung like a donkey, which he isn't despite his big hands.Bullock she's great, a real class act, as Leary has given homage to many times. I have ordered his Deliver Me to see if his acting has improved, if not his writing. WE'll see. He seems to play John Wayne, who always played himself....that school of acting.....too much for my liking.And guess what? The unsolved Isabella Gardner art heist here in Boston is probably what triggered his imagination for this movie. Now on to 'The Ref', which DID get good reviews. "}{"Title":"Not sandy's best","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie started out with some good laughs but why didn't I like it? Sandra was pretty funny but that didn't satisfy me this time. The story itself was goofy. I mean this couple was together for seven years and had nothing? Beano didn't exactly come off as a real big crime boss. I mean being the idiot of the Red Green show to king pin? I don't think so. The fishing scene was hilarious and the deer scene was great. I didn't care for Roz making a play for the rich neighbor only to run back to Frank when rich boy gets busted. The FBI, police and sheriff department were all so inept it was like the key stone cops. It had all in all some laughs but I was glad when it ended. Good enough to watch once I guess. This movie is so so. "},{"Title":"Great chemistry, weak story.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It hit me while watching this that the movie would have been better if Sandra Bullock and Dennis Leary were not criminals.  I know, strange, as that is the whole basis for plot, but the two of them were such fun when they were bantering that I thought the plot just got in the way.  If it would have been about the two of them sneaking up to Martha's Vineyard to rekindle their romance, this would have been a truly great film. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Let me say right off the bat that Two If By Sea is by far one of the best comedies ever written.  Backed by a killer screenplay and stunning cinematography, Sandra Bullock and Dennis Leary do a fantastic job - their superb on-screen chemistry left me in stitches.  Normally, I am quite critical of romantic comedies, but Two If By Sea left me breathless.A cinematic masterpiece in all respects! "},{"Title":"Two if Not in This Film!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Two if by Sea (1996) Dir Bill Bennett / Cast Denis Leary, Sandra Bullock, Stephen Dillane, Yaphet Kotto, Mike Starr One of the lamest titles in recent memory as if the writer thought it poetic that Denis Leary and Sandra Bullock break up if they did not live by a frigging beach. They play thieves who are delivering a rare expensive painting to their boss. After losing police they shack up in a deserted house. Bullock begins to question her lifestyle and is charmed by another man. Leary does everything to prove his loyalty. Director Bill Bennett does a stylish job but the screenplay would make better toilet paper. Leary makes an attempt to learn other skills that don't involve cheating, stealing and robbing but he soon must stand up for his relationship. Bullock wants out of the unlawful lifestyle yet is easily charmed by deceptive males. We hardly care about this. The ending is hardly believable and makes one wonder what was learned. Supporting roles are lousy and include Stephane Dillane as the stranger trying to court Bullock while having other plans in mind. Unfortunately those plans didn't involve kidnapping her and escorting themselves to the set of a superior film. The role is standard and predictable, and Yaphet Kotto is wasted. It is yet another boring romantic comedy retread with no real purpose other than to reflect that Bullock has done better. It is pointless fluff that should be buried at sea. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Scenery","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I'm giving this 3 stars. One for Leary, who is always likable ........ one for Sandy B. who always brings it, and one for the great scenery. At present, TWO IF BY SEA is averaging 5.1 stars, which leads me to believe that the contributors have not watched the film. I like to think that without the Bullock/Leary combination, very few of us would ever have heard of this movie. Although the scenery is second to none, the film's attempt at down-home maritime flavor is off-putting. Most Hollywood A-lister production teams could have made this film work, but it was doomed from the start. Not far into the film, it reminded me of bad Canadian television that I had grown up with. If you were to bring up the subject Two if by Sea in front of Denis Leary, he would probably go Gary Busey on you, or at the very least ........ leave the room. Some might call this film a stepping stone to bigger and better things, I'd refer to it as a bitter disappointment !!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Watch this romantic comedy movie with your girlfriend","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is the kind of movie to sit, watch and relax without demanding too much of it.The stronger point of the movie are its likable characters (except Evan Marsh). Sandra Bullock is like a fish in the water in this kind of movies and she has a good chemistry with the other leading Denis Leary. The supporting characters are good like the FBI Agent O'Malley and the group of thieves (especially when they discuss between themselves making funny comments).'Frank' O'Brien has stolen a very expensive painting and he will go to an appointment with his girlfriend Roz to sell it, what he doesn't know it is that the FBI Agent O'Malley and his thieves friends are after them &#133;&#133; "},{"Title":"Random Hearts won't steal yours","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Denis Leary One of the greatest Irish American comedian/actors to emerge in the Nineties.Sandra Bullock One of the most engaging actresses to emerge around the same time.When they appeared in Demolition Man in 1993, there was little chance to see any chemistry between the pair for all the big bangs and special effects. They rarely shared any scenes together which made matters worse.So when this movie put them together three years later, the going looked good. Great Nova Scotia scenery and a screenplay partly written by Leary looked promising.Alas, while both stars are still great, the script and pacing lacks a lot. As a fan of both stars, I could only watch half an hour before I had to go to bed.The fact that I saw it after the dreadful Speed 2 made it a little easier to palate, but not much.If you want to see a great movie involving Leary and a stolen painting watch The Thomas Crown Affair (1999) instead. "},{"Title":"First indication that it's a bad film It has two separate titles","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Every bad film that flops always has a title change, nine out of ten times, and such is the case with TWO IF BY SEA, a.k.a. STOLEN HEARTS. It's not an awful film by any means, semi-entertaining as a sweet, romantic crime romp -- but it's also nothing special, and certainly not worth renting when you can just wait for it to come on television.The underrated Denis Leary and overrated Sandra Bullock are two crooks-turned-lovers who are on the flee from their last job when they accidentally assume the identity of another couple in a local neighborhood.Yeah, it doesn't make any sense and defies logic. What were you expecting?2.5/5  "},{"Title":"BAD!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  With all due respect for Mr. Leary's capabilities as a comedian, this movie illustrates quite vividly that he is not an actor Hollywood has too much respect for. This movie is really, really stupid, and even Leary himself has admitted to being embarrassed about it. Bullock is on autopilot and all other characters are blatantly uninteresting. Only worth 3 points due to Leary's fishing-scene, that allows him to do what he is best at, comedy, and a rare performance by Yaphet Kotto. If you have no idea who Leary or Kotto is and thought since Bullock is in it, it must be OK, you would be TERRIBLY wrong!!! "},{"Title":"Simply historic","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film is the rightful butt of every bad-movie joke ever told. One of the worst and weakest of all films, it fails in ways beyond comprehension. Few movies have been any less funny or less emotionally involving for an unfortunate audience. At least with, say, Showgirls or Wild Wild West, you have something so bad it's funny. Two If By Sea does not have so lucky an audience. It's the worst kind of bad film, one that doesn't even have the decency to be humorously bad, so profoundly bad you can laugh at it. It is far, far worse. This movie makes Mortal Kombat Annihilation look like L.A. Confidential. I'm certain that watching Two If By Sea is considered torture in some parts of the world. "}{"Title":"Yaphet Kotto shines, but Bullock stinks","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Bullock fans will be greatly disappointed, wonder why she accepted such a stupid part. Generally the presence of Yaphet Kotto in a film is enough to spark my interest; prior to seeing this film, Bullock had also begun to have that sort of status for me. She is excellent two or three films, but hasn't done much since Speed which really merits attention. My brother, who is in the film trade in Hollywood, told me Bullock had fired her manager or agent, after drawing lots of attention for a few successful roles. Apparently this agent was the one who selected roles for Bullock which best brought her charm to the screen. Maybe she felt too stereotyped as America's Sweetheart or the next Audrey Hepburn -- I don't know. But her business sense, her apparent lack of concern about being given poor roles or stupid and disgusting lines in them, especially in this movie -- have completely destroyed my interest in almost all recent films she's been in. Kotto provides the only light here, in my estimation, and a fine light, too -- but his role comes too late and his presence in too limited to save this junk bucket. "},{"Title":"Too bad if you see","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't stand but 30 minutes of this swill. Lame, utterly stupid jokes used in the most idiotic instances third grade dialogue with a kindergarten story. Who wrote this crap? Even Sandra looked like hell, positively fat. Putrid! "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've seen in years. And I watch many...","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Granted, I've never been a huge Bullock fan. The best she has done where she had to act were the Congeniality movies. The Net, Demolition Man, that one where she played Harper Lee, all terrible. I've always tended to enjoy Denis Leary. Well, his movies, not necessarily his coked up stand up routine. So this movie could've gone either way for me. However, it turned out to actually be one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Not a moment of the story was original, it plods along at a god-awful pace, the acting is sub-par. Everything about this movie is embarrassing. Or at least should be to those involved. Oh, and the theme of the ending would appear to be If you don't like what he is, annoy him until he changes into the man you want him to be. Because this always works in life right? Give Leary's character one week. He'll resent her so much he'll despise the sight of her. But aside from everything about this movie being terrible, it sucked. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Two If By Sea..B.G. performer Raymond Small","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I remember going out to the set of Two If By Sea, I had been asked to perform a part of walking through a scene when the troopers race up behind Dennis Leary and Sandra Bullock, both of whom I have a great respect for, I think Sandra Bullock shows her depth and range in this movie.Dennis Leary can hold his character, with style, was right in sync with Roz. I enjoyed working on the set, as do many performers, I was glad Bill Mont loaned me a sweater on this day! Inside the store, I look for chips and goodies, while screeching tires suddenly stop outside....thank you to all cast and crew. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I think this is really funny it reminds me of Weekend at Bernies. We really enjoyed it! And I like Sandra Bullock & Denis Leary too. You can't take this movie too seriously either. And Yaphat Kotto is funny when he plays a character named O'Malley and says to the other policeman - Top of the Morning - is that Irish enough for you. What a riot. This is not a movie the The Net it's just a fluffy movie and what about all the great scenery. It's wonderful and there are a lot of great actors in it that I've seen before. I would really recommend this movie - actually it's on TBS this morning so I wanted to mention that if anyone would like to watch it.  "},{"Title":"Funny how?","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie´s characters and performances makes me wanna quote star/co-writer Doctor Denis Leary himself in No Cure For Cancer SHUT THE F*** UP! I like Denis Leary´s stand-up act - he´s turned in some quite good performances in other movies (like The Ref). Here he´s just obnoxious. I like Sandra Bullock, but she´s made some pretty bad career choices in the nineties. This is one of them. I like Yaphet Kotto, but this part is just a badly written reworking of his sarcastic FBI officer in Midnight Run. Naming him O´Malley was pretty funny, though. *½ (of ****) "},{"Title":"If you liked The Ref and No Cure For Cancer this is for you","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  very,very,very funny! loved it. great for anybody who likes Denis Leary. go see it. and if you haven't seen the Ref, see that on christmas, and if you havn't seen No Cure For Cancer, than what  are you doing looking at the info for this movie, hah? "},{"Title":"Dead in the water","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Oh, dear. What a mess this movie is. When they are doing their thing, I like Leary and Bullock, but what is the deal with this movie?It has approximately the same intricate, original plot structure and nuanced character development as an average episode of Top CatDon't get me wrong. I love Top Cat, but not for two hours with live actors. "},{"Title":"A good movie to watch with sound turned off","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  By watching this movie with the sound off you get to see the lovely Nova Scotia scenery and the lovely Sandra Bullock and you would avoid having to listen to the awful accents the actors tried to affect, the awful lines they had to deliver, and you would follow the plot which was utterly stupid from beginning to end.  Nothing about this movie rang true or believable. Yaphet Kotto was OK as the cop but, hey, watch Homicide LOTS instead.I admit to not being a Dennis Leary fan (I even hate his commercials).  So he writes a movie where he gets to have sex with Sandra Bullock.  Nice work, if you can get it!I only watched it because it was made in my home province, there are people I know in it as extras, and Sandra Bullock  (I remember when the movie was made, there was a bit of a buzz about her being in NS).  But, sad to say, it's a really awful movie.  "}]