[{"Title":"There are much worse films than this.","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"64 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It takes guts to make a sequel to a movie after 20 years, especially after the original has become a legend and the star has died since.However this movie does a lot of things right and frankly, even if it had been perfect, some people would hate it anyway. The film suffers from not having John Belushi, but John Goodman puts in a good effort, and I for one was surprised at the quality of his singing. James Brown and Aretha Franklin reprise their guest roles. The music is not as good as the original but still better than most music in the charts these days.The humour from the original is here but it is not as funny as the original. In fact all elements from the original are here in slightly inferior forms, with the exception of the car chase, which is better.To be honest, it is worth seeing this film just to see how all the band has aged. i would recommend it to anyone who enjoys Blues music, though fans of the original may be disappointed "},{"Title":"Chill, Enjoy The Miusic And Laugh","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"60 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Here's another film in which I totally go against the critics - both professional and on this board, who take themselves too seriously at times. They hated this sequel to The Blues Brothers, but I enjoyed it very much. They need to chill a bit and realize the purpose of this film simply a tribute to the music.How could any fan of blues, not like this? I mean, look at all the great performers in this film and how much better does it get to have all of them join in for a couple of jam sessions at the end? The movie sports a Who's Who of modern-day blues musicians and singers and also is directed by John Landis, who has directed some of the most entertaining films of the last 25 years.Plus, it was simply a funny movie with two funny guys - Dan Akyroyd and John Goodman - and a really neat-looking little kid in J. Evan Bonifant who really makes me laugh. Just looking at this 10-year-old dancing is his Blues Brothers outfit alone is worth a number of laughs. Some of the characters in here are so outrageous they would be tough to describe. The car chases, the dances and clothing and over-the-top story all add up to two hours of lamed-brained fun. No, this isn't Shakespeare and it wasn't mean to be. It's a much nicer-edged movie than the first Blues Brothers, too. Unfortunately, too many people want edgy material all the time .Not only are the characters colorful, so is the cinematography, making it both a visual and audio treat. So....just look at it as a blue concert with laughs, and, hopefully, you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"NOT a sequel, but a TRIBUTE!!","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"56 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Contrary to popular opinion, this is not a sequel. It is supposed to be a tribute to the original. People who bash this movie without reading Aykroyd's interviews are ignorant to the intent here. This movie was originally to be a sequel back in 1981 just before Belushi died. When that happened, the idea for another adventure fell away. But after almost two decades, Aykroyd wanted to do something to revisit the classic film and pay homage to his friend and co-star Belushi, so he assembled this Concert Movie, which is supposed to be all about THE MUSIC, not the story. The only reason a story was put in was to keep it moving from musical number to musical number, because everyone knows that straight concert films are pretty boring, even if you really like the performer(s). So here it is, for the true Blues Brothers fans to enjoy. P.S.-And if your problem with the plot was some of the cartoony style actions that occur (Cabel being pulled heavenward and his clothes magically changing, et cetera), remember that the original had the same things. In the first one the entire band's clothing magically changes for a concert, but if you know that this is merely a representation of the character's psychological state and not a literal change, then the film works much better. The same idea works for the much-maligned zombie sequence near the end at Queen Mousette's mansion. Also, people complain about the Bluesmobile in this film being able to drive underwater. Well, in the first film the car flew, performed flips, and was nearly indestructible. In fact, if you watch the DVD of the first film, you find in the deleted scenes and Making-of section that the Bluesmobile is supposed to be magic, because it was parked each night inside a power transformer. How is that for cheesiness on the first film? So that also explains Elwood's ability to smuggle himself in the dash of the car in this one, and the car being able to crash land from a fiery loop-de-loop at the fairgrounds. Even though I wish this film could have been a little edgier and darker in tone like the original, I do find its bold and effective use of color to be magnificent and fascinating. Perhaps this film has a little more depth than people expect, so they incorrectly perceive it to be a lackluster and shallow mindnumbing entertainment. I know better ....... Remove the stars in the address to e-mail me. "},{"Title":"Meant to be a Tribute Movie, but it's just a sequel","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blues Brothers 2000 is a movie with good intentions, Aykroyd and Landis once again team up to recapture the magic in tribute to John Belushi, and almost all of the original cast are still here. Musically the magic is still there and without a doubt this film is all about the music, but the original Blues Brothers film was about so much more.Blues Brothers 2000 like the first film has very little plot, and that didn't matter the first time around, but this time; without the comedy, the lack of plot is all too apparent. I just didn't find this film funny, with a few rehashed gags and some new ones that didn't work Blue Brothers 2000 really does struggle to entertain.John Goodman doesn't try and replace John Belushi, and he actually does a good job in poor role, but the introduction of a kid to the Blues Brothers Band seemed completely pointless and adds absolutely nothing to the film.The saving grace is the music, with Eric Clapton, BB King, Aretha Franklin, James Brown, etc. and the original Blues Brothers Band, the music is damn good, but this alone is not enough.Thanks for trying, but must try harder. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Blues Brothers 2000?  Slow and sloppy!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I found Ackroyd to be completely horrible.  He looked more like Joe Friday than Elwood Blues.  His Chicago accent was forced, the dialog moved through at a horribly slow pace.  There was absolutely zero comic timing in this movie.  Every scene in the movie, including the musical numbers, took too long-from Elwood talking to the Penguin, to the Car chases-long shots of police cars-to the car-under-the-water routing-to the 50 car pile up that seemed to take 10 minutes.The musical numbers-the lifeblood of the original-were completely devoid of soul.  Aretha Franklin's lip-syncing in particular was horrible.  Matt Guitar Murphy looked more like a broken down old man than the body-builder he did in the original.  Who could believe that the `Dunn and Cropper' radio talk show could possibly exist when they both seemed to be reading off of cue cards the entire movie?The things that we funny and subtle in the first film-Elwood's parking ability, Jake's transformation at the hands of Reverend Cleophus, the miracle performance of the Bluesmobile, the new jobs of the former band members, were hackneyed and overdone in this film.The lack of energy from the band, though, is the coffin nail for this film.They perform with such little life that CGI animation of a skeleton riding a skeletal horse over the stage has to be imposed during their rendition of `Ghost Rider.'  This comes from the same Blues Brothers band that made the theme to Rawhide sound like a hit twenty years ago.Finally, the movie seems too bright and too clean.  The original took place at night for the most part, and seemed dungier.  This film is shiny and clean and that just doesn't feel right.  The new Bluesmobile didn't even look right until Elwood littered up the dashboard with trash, and-get this-the cigarette lighter worked!Other fatal flaws dumbing-down Elwood Blues, inserting a kid into the cast, having Elwood eat something other than dry, white toast, the shaving-cream-ball schtick, no SCMODS, no lines like `Man, I haven't been pulled over in six months.'  All the jokes hit you in the face-like they all have to be explained.  Complete bomb. "},{"Title":"Music, Music","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Who cares about the plot? There wasn't one. The best thing about this movie is the top notch music and performers. Having all those folks in one film is incredible. A hundred years from now, this film would be a great case study of the R & B, Soul, and Blues of this time. And this tease.stay after the final credits, and you will be greatly rewarded. For this type of film I wish there was 2 scoring systems, one for the plot and the other for the music. "},{"Title":"Great music, but where's John Belushi?","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have to admit that some parts of this movie were clever indeed.  It was cool that they tied in the deaths of John Belushi and Cab Calloway into the movie's plot, making the characters they played dead as well.  If Jim Belushi took the part of Joliet Jake, that would have been a disaster. Still, the plot of this movie could have used some serious work. For instance, in the original movie, the Blues Brothers (a) were actually brothers and (b) were on an actual mission from God.  Their goal was to make some honest money to save an orphanage from shutting down, while trying to flee from the police at the same time.  The movie brought back blues legends such as Aretha Franklin and James Brown back into the spotlight, and it helped contribute to the death of disco. Eighteen years later, Jake's dead, Cab Calloway's dead, the orphanage has been shut down, so why are they being chased by the police?  Because a half brother of Elwood got p***ed off at finding his real past? The kid, I must add, was a nice touch, and it was cool to see twice as many blues legends in this movie, including some new artists like Johnny Lang and Erykah Badu.  But there should have been a better plot, because it seemed as though the Blues Brothers Band were going from event to event for the hell of it.  Where's the plot in that?  Police, leave these guys alone. The big mistake in this movie was its attempt to outdo the original movie. The music was great, and I highly recommend buying the soundtrack. However, don't expect to see a plot in this story.  Otherwise, enjoy. "},{"Title":"Astounding music and car chases","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The only way this film can not be awe inspiring is if you watch it on a 10 black and white TV with a 4 watt sound system. Maybe that's a bit extreme, but I watched this on a 70 projection screen and 7.2 pristine and precise surround sound. I have seen this film at least 20 times and get the same pleasure from it each time. Aretha Franklin's voice and the musical abilities of almost the entire cast would carry any film, but this one doesn't need it. The story might not be completely developed (euphemism) but the Russian mobsters and GI Joes scenes are gutbustingly funny. Also, for anyone who has ever listened to modern music and wondered where the world was going to, Dan Akroyd's motivational speech is something to behold. Although I never expected to say this, because I'm a non-religious person, the gospel choir's rendition of John the Revelator sends shivers down your spine. I love this film, and would recommend it to anyone who likes good music. "},{"Title":"Yes, it really is THAT bad!!!","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of the few movies I have ever seen which actually made me angry... not just disappointed, mind you, but downright furious! No one expected this film to live up to the classic original, but for a sequel to fall this far short of the mark is just plain insulting. This cinematic ipecac fails on just about every possible level; the worst failure being that is just no fun to watch! Instead, it made me uncomfortable and a little embarrassed for the people on the screen. And for those who are confused by the fact that some people have rated this movie very highly, notice that the majority of positive reviews focus on the music. Yes, I love the Blues, and this movie features some good numbers, but GOOD MUSIC DOES NOT MAKE A GOOD MOVIE!! If you want to hear the tunes, by all means get the soundtrack CD. Or simply fast-forward through the lame dialog, wooden acting, and ridiculous plot to watch the music scenes. But I highly discourage anyone who liked the original Blues Brothers from wasting their time on this crassly commercial, soulless, and painfully unfunny movie. ...But that's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"It has its points","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blues Brothers 2000 has a few points in its favor. The opening is 99% right. It only lacks a brief explanation on why the red car turns up (most likely because the manager made a phone call). Otherwise it is great, a tribute to the lost Belushi.There are also much good music, almost as good as the original. Not least, Aretha Franklin's appearance is truly funny, especially when you have seen the original movie.But the movie lacks the plot of the original. The original plot may have been thin, but it was enough to drive the story. This one lacks that, there is no motivation, no goal to speak of, and the result is that the ending comes as a surprise. Was that it, was that the end of the movie? Then what? But when I saw it the second time, I was prepared and enjoyed the music instead.Another weakness is the lack of special effects. The original movie made a big thing of overdoing car chases in very funny ways. This movie rather under-does them. In the time it was made, it should have used computer graphics to do plenty more than the original. Now they smash a few cars, but little remarkable happens. In particular, there are no original ideas in the car chases.So don't expect too much, just enjoy the music and the fun parts (they sure exist). And don't get bothered by Buster. Without him, Cab wouldn't go after Elwood, right? "}{"Title":"The worst sequel ever made","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If this movie was not a sequel of one of the best cult movies of the past 30+ years, it would just a dumb movie, the fact it is is just an insult to the memory of the original cast members who passed away. I originally saw the movie when it was released on VHS, and rented the movie for $3, in the late 90's, and I felt ripped off beyond belief. I just recently rewatched the movie, and I feel just stupid for doing so. The movie is even worse the second time around. There are no redeeming qualities, or performances, to save the movie, which has a dumbass plot, and is just boring to watch. The whole 'feud' with the russians is like what a 2 year old would do, and shows early on what a disaster the movie is. The ending is pointless, driving off into the horizon with the cops chasing. Seems like no one knew how to end the movie so they went the brainless way out, at least the first movie showed what happens when you fool with the cops, you become the prison band, which made the end of the original excellent. The only thing they could have worked is have James take over John's role, because the explanation of Jake's death is soooo stupid it's insulting. In the trivia to this movie, it says the movie was ranked 4th, out of 25, worst sequels, I would like to know what was worse than this? I would have said it IS the worst. Even giving this movie a 1 seems like a compliment, but they should add a vote of Avoid at all costs, because this is the case for this flop. I am really disappointed with Dan Ackroyd, he is almost always good, and this movie looks like he was asleep at the wheel. "},{"Title":"A tremendous whumping stinkwad of a movie","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I generally don't make headers like the above. If I see a great number of people have already made the same comments about a film that I would, I generally forego adding my own to the pile. No matter how dismal a film might be, I generally don't give anything a rating of '1'.This movie drove me to do all three.If you watch it in the context of a sequel to the original film, it's offensive. If you take it on its own merits, it's just appalling.The blatant token inclusion of a black actor (part of the innate fun of the REAL Blues Brothers was the fact that they were both uncool white guys), the addition of the kid to add cutesy appeal (wherefore cutesy appeal from a BLUES band?) and the moronic subplot with the militia and the Russian mafia (Illinois Nazis I buy. THIS I do not) are only a partial list of the offenses committed by this steaming pile of cinematic excrement.The extensive use of the impossible (Ghost Riders in the sky, zombifying people, transformations into rats) made this seem like a nasty parody of the original film, which, while it did take a few short detours into the realm of 'no way' (the backwards car flip), generally confined its antics to the at-least-theoretically-possible realm. That allowed the viewer to suspend their disbelief enough to either allow for these crossovers or at least snicker at their impossibility and accept it as part of the Blues' Brothers charmed quest. Here, it makes a bad thing worse. And then Paul Shaffer comes slouching in. He DOES belong in the movie (most of the Blues Brothers albums feature him on keyboard, not Murphy Dunne), but his over-the-top performance makes him seem like the Frenchmen in Monty Python and the Holy Grail. Except not funny.And I just wanna STRANGLE that stupid kid.If I describe this movie any more fully, I will be forced to use words that will disqualify my review from the IMDB. So I will end with this thoughtDan Akroyd, you're a fine actor. John Goodman, so are you. And the Hindenberg's pilots were the best in the world. "},{"Title":"The worst sequel I have ever seen!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As good as the original Blues Brothers movie was, as bad is this sequel After a rather boring warmup of old scenes which are by far not as good as the original ones, it looks like the producers have run out of money - because the end is where there was the first hope that there will be some action. OK, I concede the songs are great again, but the plot...forget it. If you like the music of the old Bluesbrothers movies, you might consider to buy the soundtrack - that contains everything which is good about that movie. "},{"Title":"Breaks my heart to see a good film go bad","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was a great fan of The Blues Brothers. When I was a kid, I used to get my dad to rent it every single week (in the days before you could buy it). I'd watch the car chases over and over again, and to this day can recite whole reams of dialogue. BB 2000, I thought, can't be as good, but it must be worth seeing.How wrong I was.I have tried, but I regret to say that I can find no redeeming features for this movie whatsoever. Not one. The dialogue which once was cool and sharp is stilted, forced, wholly unrecognisable as everyday English. The addition of the little kid and the black forgotten brother was pointless pandering to political correctness and family appeal. The car chases were overblown without being entertaining, and the plot was sadly not even laughable. I only kept watching after the first five minutes in the hope of one solitary laugh to give me something positive to write about. No chance. Even the usually excellent John Goodman was well below par, and this is to say nothing of the washed up Ackroyd.Terribly photographed, crippled by being utterly devoid of plot, jokes, charisma and with even the music shoehorned in with no thought to aesthetics or taste, I can honestly say that BB2K ranks alongside root canal work as the least pleasant way one could ever spend time. This film took me two long hours closer to my death. I suggest you do not let it do the same to you. "},{"Title":"John Belushi must be spinning in his grave","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I pretty much guessed this movie would be bad. After all, seeing the Blues Brothers license sold out to 3 HORRIBLE Nintendo games was bad enough. Then this hits. Did Kim Henkel have something to do with this movie? Because it was the same thing as Texas Chainsaw MassacreThe Next Generation- a total rehash of the first with awful acting. We didn't need all of those special effects. In fact it seems anymore there must be a requirement for computer graphics to take up 80% of the scenery.   As for the characters- Elwood was OUT OF CHARACTER! John Goodman, while has talent, needs to find a role other than loser in SOMETHING! The boy was a plot device we didn't need. The only thing saving this movie was a few cameos by original cast members. But John Lee Hooker and Ray Charles aren't here, and they're still alive last I checked.   Most of the music scenes had no real purpose. And then there's the fact that Elwood is now a stuck up jerk who will lie to just about anyone. Take my advice and forget this movie ever happened. In fact, buy the original and avoid this. This deserves to be on MST3K. "},{"Title":"This movie is god awful. It gives me the blues.","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 1980s Blues Brother was perhaps the greatest Saturday Night Live skit to spin off from the show into the realm of movies. Still, The Blues Brothers wasn't the perfect movie to be made. It was a nightmare for Universal Pictures, to complete. It was wildly off schedule, had an ever-changing script, drug-fuel stars and was way over budget. Yet, the movie made, nearly triple of its money back, when it was released. The reasons why it work, was because the movie was action packed, kinda funny, and had great musical numbers. Still, most of its success, came from its two top drawings stars, Dan Akroyd and John Belushi. This sequel, didn't have any of those achievements. It's felt like a desperate retread between writer/actor Dan Akyroyd and writer/director John Landis to relive the glory days. The sequel fails to live up to the original, big time. The reasons why, are very clear. First off, the movie plot is paper thin. The movie tells the story of Elwood Blue (Dan Aykroyd) trying to reunited the old band to fight in a battle of the band contest in Louisiana. In my opinion, this plot is very weak, compare to the Mission from God, from the first movie. The movie never establish, why Elwood need the band, in the first place, or why the other band members would come to his rescue, when they, themselves are living, pretty well-off. Second off, the movie kinda ruins the first film, by stating out that the orphanage that the brothers were trying to save, ended up, closing. It kinda a bummer opening to a film. The Studio didn't like this, and force John Landis to make the rest of the film, more light-hearted. It gets worst, as the film turns PG to capitalize on a wider audience. It really limits the amount of violent and language, that they can show. This makes for a very underwhelming film. It was really boring for the most part. The jokes are very childish and cartoony. I really couldn't get into the whole, over the top supernatural sequence, this movie, brings. It felt like a 10 year old, wrote this film. I really didn't like the fact, that Elwood was being team up with a kid named Buster (J. Evan Bonifant). Not once, in the film does Elwood seem like he has any father-like connection with the kid. The movie acts as if the kid wasn't there, for the most part. It was very pointless. Even new members, like Mack (John Goodman) were underwhelming. The movie never does a good job, in making it seem, like Elwood and Mack have somewhat a connection. The chemistry, between them isn't there. It's sad, because I love John Goodman as an actor. John Landis and Dan Aykroyd were reportedly very unhappy with the changes the studio forced onto the film, even coming close to quitting the project. Third off, I can't believe, they made a sequel, 18 years after the 1980's hit, Blues Brothers. John Landis really waited too long to get this sequel, off the ground. Nobody really wanted to see this film, in the late 1990s. Why is this movie, even made!? It's not like, the fan-base were asking for a Blues Brothers sequel. If, they were; clearly the producers should had quickly capitalize on it, in the early 1980s. Maybe, they did, wanted to make a film sequel as quick as possible, but production of the film was halted, due to main actor, John Belushi's odd drug behavior. Maybe, they were waiting for Belushi to go into rehab. Well, that day never came, as John Belushi died in 1982. Since Belushi couldn't reprise his role, I don't understand, why this movie wasn't shelf. Clearly, they can't use a double for Jake. Nobody can double Belushi. The death was actually worked into the film's plot; it didn't really help, but it was at least respectful to John Belushi. The film was originally intended to include Brother Zee Blues (Jim Belushi, brother of John Belushi). But due to an already existing television deal, Jim Belushi was unable to appear and the script was altered to include Cab Blues (Joe Morton). This was a huge mistake as Joe Morton, really didn't give us, much in humor. He's a good actor, but he's no comedian. The movie has a lot of cameos by celebs. Aretha Franklin, B.B King, James Brown, Frank Oz and few others return from the first movie, for a small paycheck and reprise some of their classic hits. One person from the first movie that didn't return was Cab Calloway & John Candy, who died four years prior to the film's release. Still, the movie does give them, some homage. I like that new musicians at the time, like Blues Travelers & Erykah Badu, gives the movie, so needed new flair. It made the film, somewhat entertaining. The music is pretty damn good for the most part, but the movie doesn't mixed, the musical sequences so well, with the rest of the film. Overall This movie is one of most pointless, underwhelming, and just downright bizarre sequels in comedy history. It wasn't good, man. I don't recommended. "},{"Title":"a little weak, but great music","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" as i watched this i assumed that when Dan Aykroyd and John Landis wrote this they didn't worry much about the plot and focused more on the music, because its great! James Brown, Aretha Franklyn and of course the Blues brothers themselves were good, even though there was no John nor Jim Belushi. tons of other performers pop up as well, such as BB King, Erykah Badu, Paul Shaffer, Eric Floyd, Wilson Picket, Blues Traveler, Sam Moore and many others, but don't really add much to the story, which has Elwood (Akroyd) released from prison bringing the band back together one last time, along with new members, to enter a Battle of the bands contest, once again chased by the cops as well as a Russian mafia. It was kinda cool to see some of the old band members have new jobs, Willie has a strip club, Steve and Donald are radio DJS, and so forth, but that doesn't forgive the weak plot, which just rehashed the first movie, and the car chases, while good at first went on a little too long. the acting was OK, Akroyd as Elwood got annoying, John Goodman as Mighty Mac was good, but no John Belushi. Joe Morton was OK as Cab, the cop who turns out to be Curtis's son, and J Evan Bonifant was OK as Buster, an orphan who follows Elwood around.Overall good music, weak plot "},{"Title":"A woeful excursion","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Blues Brothers 2000' is a sequal that just didn't work. Whereas the original felt gritty, dirty, cool and funny, the new one shows us characters in bright clothing, the sun is always shining and everything seems so squeaky-clean. It's as if 'Disney' took over the production, put a cute kid in it, and turned it into a jolly piece of family entertainment. For example, in the original the car chase was on the mean dirty streets of Chicago, with all the rubbish and shadows that come with a city location. But in the sequal the car chase was staged on a nice piece of quiet country road, with green grass and lovely scenery. It seems the filmmakers decided to take it easy with this one and do all their work in the most comfortable of surroundings. Why block city streets when you can take your time out in the middle of nowhere? While that may sound convenient in the end the original car chase was much more exciting, real and funny than the newer version.Even the prison that Ellwood is released from at the beginning of the film is in a nice piece of verdant countryside. I thought Jolliet was deep in the heart of Chicago, in a kind of industrial wasteland... Aretha Franklin and her crew are all now rich and selling expensive cars! Oh dear, whatever happened to the 'blues'? Blues music plays so much better in more rundown areas. Well that's what I think.Certainly the music is awesome and I cannot help feel that they should have all just gone on the road rather than make this ineffectual and silly sequal. There were just to many characters, not nearly enough story, and Ellwood seemed to talk non-stop to the point of being annoying. Ackroyd's voice even sounded cartoon-like, he definately didn't sound the Ellwood from the original.I have seen the original more times than I can count, and could happily sit down and watch it now, but the sequal I have seen maybe two and a half times and have no wish to sit through it again. I would love to see a Part 3, but this time getting back to the roots of what Blues really is, and not a cleaned up, sanitised and bubbly episode like what '2000' was.  "},{"Title":"BAAAAAAAD sequel. Good music though","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The sequel to one of the best films ever made. And it stinks. The only good thing here the is music, so I recommend shopping around for the soundtrack.Has anyone noticed that there is no special edition package of both Blues Brothers movies? That's right there isn't, because this movie doesn't deserve to be next to the immortal first film. It has none of the wit and snappy humor nor charm of the first. The jokes that are in the film are direct rip offs from the original.There isn't even any car chasing. And the bad guys get turned into rats! BS! BS! BS! Just get the soundtrack and avoid this mess. 3/10Rated PG-13 mild profanity "},{"Title":"Why, why couldn't they let it alone?","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Blues Brothers is one of the most classic comedies of the past 25 years. Somehow, someone decided to mess up the legacy by creating a sequel...18 years later.Dan Akyroyd returns as Ellwood Blues. He has just been released from jail, and trying to put the band back together again. Because of the real life death of John Belushi, the writers instead throw in John Goodman and a child as new band players.First of all, I want to point out that I respect in this film that when Ellwood tells Goodman about Jake, the writers didn't come up with Oh, he's down in Florida vacationing or something stupid excuse for his absence like that. At least they payed John the respect he deserved, and Ellwood tells him that Jake died paying some respect to John Belushi and his character, Jake Blues.Where they got the idea for a child to join the band is beyond me. Is this a guarantee PG-13 or what? Obviously they decided to make this at least a PG-13, and I think that is stupid. The original film was R, and sticking to it they should have done the same here. I like when there are family films, but this film is not! There is a strip bar sequence, and yet this is PG-13? Come on! As for these scenes, they paid absolutely nothing worthwhile to the film, other than filling in 20 minutes of stupid cheap gimmicks (Ellwood gets on stage and sings blues as the strippers come out) This is so dumb, and while the original had obvious dumb sequences, they came out funny-dumb, this film did not. It almost was not intended to be a real film, rather a joining of Akyroyd with Blues. They do not really care about the film itself. It's like a music video gone wrong. You'd expect to pick this video up and have a music CD pop out instead of a film.How anyone could think up such a lame excuse of a sequel is beyond me, and how Dan Akyroyd would ever join the cast again just completely mind boggling to me. What was Dan thinking?Overall this film pays some respects to John Belushi's SNL and film legacy, but overall does more damage to him than honor. I am disgusted that Dan would do this to such a classic film, and such a classic comedian. John Belushi wasn't a favorite of mine, but he was pretty funny, and very controversial for the time. I think if he were around today he would've lost his career like Dan, Chevy, Steve, and Bill. Not that these hilarious guys don't do funny films anymore, but they don't do ENOUGH films, anymore (especially Chevy, he has the most wasted career out of all)So if you like cheap gimmicks and rip-offs of the first Blues Brothers film, by all means see Blues Brothers 2000. But if you're like me and hate cheap gimmicks and unhonorable rip-offs, then stay clear of this flop. 1/5 stars-JOHN ULMER "}{"Title":"Aside from everything...","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Aside from everything, like Dan Aykroyd's dwindling ability to write a compelling story with good dialog, the ridiculous say whaaa parts, and Elwood's complete change in character, what grinds my gears the very most, is the poster, it was advertised Aykroyd, Goodman They're back in blue completely disregarding the existence of the great John Belushi.....plus the movie sucked major balls if not for the music, and the kid's dance skills, i couldn't watch it....so very sad, and unfair!OHHH SCHNICKELFRITZ! "},{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved the original, what happened here??  Total rehashes, the car chases sucked.  The music was bad.  Goodman replacing Belushi?  That makes me want to spit.  Where are the awesome chases, the comedy, the awesome music? Arg, this is awful, I had to fastforward a ton of boring songs.  Horrible movie, do not watch it.  Rated PG13 for language and should be fine for anyone. Gets a 2/10 on my scale.    "},{"Title":"Blues 2000 Times Over.","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blues Brothers 2000 (1998) Dir John Landis / Cast Dan Aykroyd, John Goodman, Joe Morton, J. Evan Bonifant, B.B. King Pathetic showcase that never reaches the heights of the original. It opens with the release of Elwood Blues from prison with the news that his brother Jake had passed away. He returns to the orphanage and put in charge of little Buster. Elwood plans to reunite with the band and compete in a battle of the bands contest held at a Voodoo lair. That is pitiful in itself. While music numbers are fine, the plot is just a recap minus the talent of the late John Belushi. Low key directing by John Landis who did such a brilliant job on The Blues Brothers. Dan Aykroyd cannot carry the film and the absence of Belushi is all too painful. John Goodman is a pale substitute to Belushi. He plays a bartender who becomes part of the band. Joe Morton plays the son of the Cab Calloway character in the original. He is a cop involved in a dumb transformation that sinks this garbage even further in despair. J. Evan Bonifant is totally unnecessary as Buster. B.B. King makes an appearance alongside numerous other musical talents but none can bring any real spirit to this travesty. The only real thing that this garbage offers is a record breaking sixty car pile up. Otherwise this is a pointless and stupid sequel where Elwood says to Buster as the credit roll, Fasten your seatbelt. Landis gave no reason for us to do so. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"More Cameo City than Calumet City","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" See my title? Now that is a really poor joke, but I hate to say still better and more amusing than this film. I have put this review may contain spoilers, but I am not sure how I can really spoil something so appalling.Music, yes it has music and it is OK. I was most fascinated to hear a hyped up Gospel rendition of John the Revelator a much beloved tune for me from The Sons of Anarchy.Does the Blue Brothers 2000 have a plot? Not that I noticed, it seemed to be mostly a vehicle to fit in as many possible cameo performances from The Blues Brothers.If you look at the full cast list and see that they managed to destroy 1 more car than the original Blues Brothers film you have to ask this question; Was someone at studio production stone deaf and at a business lunch misunderstood a conversation in which they thought someone said The Blues Brothers were great too... to which they said Yes.... and then thought they were signing for lunch? It is said that this film lost $14 Million. I'm shocked the loss was really that small. "},{"Title":"Great Music, Horrible Sequel.","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The whole movie seemed like a throwback/tribute to the original. It didn't really try at all to stand on its own merits, it just came across as an excuse for the cast (most of whom were in the original) to relive the good ole' days. Most of the scenes and plot points mirrored those of the original film. Aside from that, the signature clothing (black suit, black fedora, sunglasses, etc.) and the Bluesmobile, this movie is almost unrecognizable from the original film.Out of the two stars of the original, only Dan Aykroyd survived to make this film. (RIP John Belushi.) Unfortunately, Elwood Blues must have gone to the grave with Jake Blues, because Dan Aykroyd's reprisal of his role is disgraceful. Elwood's voice, accent, mannerisms, and overall attitude have totally changed...for the worse. A once mysterious, serious, resourceful, and charming character has been warped into a worthless goofball, and this change sets the tone for the rest of the movie as well.The original movie, though very funny, had a serious tone to it (at least the performances seemed that way), but Blues Brothers 2000 is just goofy and cheesy. The only thing that I can compare the goofiness/cheesiness to is a kids movie...which makes sense since one of the main characters of this movie IS a kid, Buster Blues. After visiting The Penguin from the original movie, Elwood gets stuck mentoring an orphan boy, Buster, who turns out to be a blues prodigy. Add John Goodman's equally goofy character, Mighty Mack McTeer, into the mix and you've got a recipe for disaster.The only things that saves this movie from being a 0/10 are the outstanding musical sequences (with the exception of Johnny Lang's contribution). With the exception of John Belushi, the original band is reunited in this film and they do not disappoint! The Blues Brothers Band and the various cameos from famous musicians throughout the movie are reason enough to watch it. The final sequence, a Battle of the Bands contest, is particularly good.To Summarize the movie sucks, but the music is great! Watch it at least once, especially if you've seen the original. "},{"Title":"The cover band equivalent","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If a sequel to the iconic 1980's film The Blues Brothers needed to be made, I would've much rather seem John Goodman assume the role of Jake Blues, the chubby and talky half of the Blues brothers rather than watch an overlong, padded out tribute film to the group, involving the surviving half of the brothers, Elwood, desperately try to get the old band back together in an effort to keep the blues alive. There is an uncanny stench of desperation from the screen as the obligatory sequel plot takes fold and sadly consumes the iconic trail the original 1980's classic paved.I recall my original review of The Blues Brothers with dread upon viewing its unnecessary sequel. I stated, there are two car chases that could very well rank in some of the best ever executed in film. Police cars topple each other, one after another, and the film knows when to start and when to end them, and conclude with, The Blues Brothers is a fun, energized comedy that starts fast and rarely lets up in terms of comedy and music. It's a Chicago classic and one of the funniest and smartest musical comedies I have yet to see. The sequel takes all the fun out of its formula and replaces it with wasted energy. There's nothing here that couldn't have been simply put on a soundtrack and left at that.Dan Aykroyd reprises his role as Elwood, as he tries so hard to make new friendships, one of which involving a ten year old orphan named Buster (J. Evan Bonifant), who he takes along upon learning of his rather somber roots at the orphanage Jake and Elwood were raised in and saved from being demolished in the original film. He learns that Buster has a talent for playing the harmonica and gives him a slick suit and shades to join in the revival band. Elwood also recruits Mack McTeer (played by John Goodman), a bartender from a new strip club he has just found out about, and Cab (Joe Morton), the illegitimate son of an old friend who is initially bitter and cold towards the idea of a band but soon can not refuse.One of the strongest moments is the three minute long musical rendition of Wilson Pickett's 634-5789, about a phone number, when dialed, will connect the lonely caller to attractive women who will provide them with a good time. If only they saw who was really working the phone lines. For every infectious dance sequence we get, we get an endless amount of stale comedy littered with unimpressive jokes and redundant banter. The musical numbers are the saving grace here but, again, that's what soundtracks are for.It's hard to say exactly where Blues Brothers 2000 goes wrong. It seems to have all the working components for a sequel to the original film. It is written by Aykroyd himself and John Landis (who again assumes the director role), two men who should know the material better than any soul, and we can see they desperately tried to work around the deaths of co-workers John Belushi, Cab Calloway, and John Candy in order to make a sequel work, and John Goodman seems as good as anyone to proudly boast the suit and glasses, yet the pieces do not fit like they're supposed to. This is more of a tribute film rather than a direct sequel.I'll end this on a rather loose comparison; if the original Blues Brothers film was Hall and Oates, then Blues Brothers 2000 is the Hall and Oates cover band that's biggest gig is open mic night down at the town pub. They may not be too painful, but hell, it just ain't the real thing.Starring Dan Aykroyd, John Goodman, J. Evan Bonifant, Joe Morton, James Brown, Aretha Franklin, B. B. King. Directed by John Landis. "},{"Title":"As a 10 star fan of the original, I gave this a 3!","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It is plain as day that this movie was simply made to ride the coat tails of the original and hope and PRAY that everyone who loved the original would rush out to see this. I did and this was one of only 2 movies I've EVER walked out of! The other movie I walked out of, The re-release of 'The Original Exorcist'. The only reason I walked out of that movie was because it scared the holy hell out of me. With that said, I guess 'The Blues Brothers 2000' did as well. I love movies. Good, bad, B movies, block busters, I give them all a chance and enjoy with an open mind. This movie was almost an insult to movie goers the world over. And the budget for the film was decent! Almost $30 mil! But turning the blues brothers into zombies? Tossing in a kid for family appeal? And a car that is basically like night rider? If you watch this movie at all, do yourself a favor and fast forward to the end. THE ONLY GREAT THING ABOUT THIS MOVIE.... Is the closing Battle Of The Bands. I'm not spoiling anything here. All I will say is the music is great and seeing all those amazing musicians made watching this over again, worth it. But like I said. Just fast forward to the end. For all the amazing movies big Dan has done, he definitely regrets letting his fans down with this pile of steaming Hollywood hey they loved the original, lets make money with a remake flop fest. "},{"Title":"Far from the worst sequel ever, but one of John Landis's weaker movies","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I like John Landis, and I consider Blues Brothers(along with An American Werewolf in London) his best movie. This sequel is one of his weakest sadly, it has its moments, the cinematography and production values are very good, Dan Aykroyd visibly tries to bring some vigour and energy into his role and the music is absolutely top-notch. However, Landis's direction feels a little inexperienced this time around, while the story is a mess, no scratch that the story is almost non-existent and the first half is pretty much a complete re-hash. The script lacks the wit and quirks that were so evident in the original too, while the pace is uneven, mostly too rushed and the energy is severely lacking, almost as if a helium balloon was burst and any energy that went with it was lost. Aykroyd tries hard, but John Goodman(who I like) is wasted with a poor character and bad dialogue. Overall, disappointing but the music is worth a listen so it isn't a complete waste. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Misses the mark","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not sure what Dan Aykroyd and John Landis were aiming for, but they missed. Without John Belushi the crass edginess is missing.Sure yeah the music kicks, with Clapton, Jimmy Vaughn, Dr. John, B.B. King and Blues Traveller there are more than blues legends to carry the film musically. There are some nice references to the first film, but this dog won't hunt. Hard for me to say, I am a huge fan of the franchise! It isn't funny, the kid is pointless, John Goodman as Max is clueless, the plot is non-existent. The Russian Mob extortionist as the foil falls flat. On the bright side, the band is insanely talented and the final scene with both bands was a treat for the music fan. Overall listen to the music and ignore the movie. "},{"Title":"A fun movie idea, nothing serious.","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie wasn't that great of a sequel.  But as for the fun factor, its a 10!  The Blues Brothers were originated out of an idea that said 'You know what'd be fun?'.  And that's what it was, a fun time making a funny movie. And that's exactly what they did with The Blues Brothers 2000.  There's nothing to be taken seriously, and nothing that doesn't please SOMEONE. It was fun to see how everyone 'grew up' and how they'd changed after their big show from before.  9 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Two reasons to watch this movie...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first a fun, FUN quirky rendition of Funky Nassau (nicely done song and dance routine).The second Dan Aykroyd explaining why the Russian thugs are the way they are...Listen, Willy, ya' gotta' understand. Those goons are orphaned remnants of the post-Perestroika Soviet Secret Police apparatus, which until 1991 carried out its twisted interpretation of the original well-intentioned Marxist-Leninist doctrine vis--vis State Security, which was massively corrupted by Larenta Beria in the thirties. Of course, once the mass populace is coerced into such behaviour as a permanent condition, a radical didactic dialectic shift &#150; such as Glasnost' &#150; produces guys like these stunned headless automata whose only alternative in their new lives is the continuation of brutish measures to which their genetic code has been programmed since the fall of the Romanovs.If there is a third reason to see this movie, I don't know of it yet... but if I find one, I'll post it here.  "},{"Title":"Almost Decent **spoiler**","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay, this movie wasn't very good. I saw this movie before I ever saw the original Blues Bros. movie, and I'm glad to have saved the best for last. First things first it's just not the blues brothers without John Belushi. Nice try with John Goodman, but it's just not working with me. Another thing Is it me, or did that little kid get annoying after a while? Here's another one It was really cheesy whenever they're at the Mississippi Queen's manor and she turns all the bad guys into rats. How stupid is that? Anyway, the car chases were lame, and the car pile-up at the end was very un-humorous. I just didn't like this movie all that much. Nice try, Akroid, but no cigar. 5/10 "},{"Title":"NOT AS GOOD AS THE ORIGINAL, BUT NOT A BAD SEQUEL!","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  BLUES BROTHERS 2000 was a little too fast and simple, but the music and the inclusion of John Goodman was really good. This is basically a spin-off of the original, which I don't mind at all... so my final score is a big 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie ever made","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok so a lot of people gave this movie a bad review and I don't blame them. But it was better than a lot of you actually thought. The only thing I had problems with in the movie is that they repeated way too many scenes. They should have gotten a completely new plot that didn't have anything to do with the old plot except for of course the blues brothers. I wish John Belushie wasn't dead cause I think he could have brought the plot up a little. But all together this movie was all right. I've seen way worse. "},{"Title":"Excellent film with great music, this MAINLY a musical","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A wonderful film, not so much for the story (rehash of the 1980 version) but for the music. All the major music names are there and the final song is a must-see. Includes Blues Brothers, BB King, Eric Clapton, Isaac Hayes, Lou Rawls, Cab Calloway, Aretha Franklin, James Brown and many, many, other great names in R&B. I liked the Love Connection (illustrates what can be hidden behind a soothing voice!), Mousette's Funky tunes, and  Louisiana's French touch. Bonifant's is fine as a stray kid (pity he can't play the harmonica as well as shown) and Goodman makes easily up for Belushi's absence(John, rest in peace). Nia Peeples, although miscast as a cop, is a cute addition and her final dance number (who wouldn't dance to this tune?) is neat.I am sure Dan and John made this film more as a way to put the music out, than as a film. It is a sort of a music dedication to the major R&B players for the masses who may not go actively to R&B performances. The previous version had rough language, while this one is fine with kids, who like the chase scenes. "},{"Title":"A movie so sad you need 2000 Prozac.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Blues Brothers franchise self destructs. Why was a classic Baby Boomer goof off movie made showing its middle age trepidations ? What's next The Blues Brothers Country Club ? What has the kid to do with anything anyway ? These were some of the thoughts that seared my mind as I watched this Kluge of a movie. And like buggy software, every time you thought it was finally working, it froze up on itself. The music, which was the hit of the original flick, seems stale, even trite in this one. The car chases and crashes look like the out takes from the 1980 version. What humor there is is almost Disney like cutesy instead of funky and brash. Where was the kid's skate board and puppy ? Who were they afraid of offending ? To whom were they pandering ? Guess.This movie was made for the advertisers who product placement seemed to be the only real concern of the moviemakers. We never expected a plot, but Gad !, would someone get a fresh set of monkeys at the dialoge typewriter, please ! All the shortcomings of the original flick were duplicated like from rote. The only message in this movie was, when you're big enough you don't have to care anymore. Just flip out some left overs, and some scraps, the adoring masses will tremble in gratitude. This movie is an unintenitional self parody, a seemingly endless grinding and rebooting of a failed concept. Its a serious downer in almost every respect. Rent the original, if you've never seen it, then staple on a hurl handbag to watch this chewy-as-gravel, poke in the eye. Be warned, next you'll see, Blues Brothers visit the Muppet Babies on Ice. Will  a Blues Brother(c) become a Furpy (c) or a Poke'mon (c) ? Does anyone care anymore? Thanks for decimating an American icon into a fast food franchise theme meal.  "},{"Title":"skip this film","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I loved the original Blues Brothers; it's become a classic film for many people. When a film succeeds like it did, there is always the clamor for a sequel. I don't know why - sequels very often are awful, but this one's a step below awful (REAL awful?). The story is so lame compared to the first. Another mission from God? Come on, show a little originality. This film has no story, no humor, no originality, no nothing. I gave the original film a solid 9 but this one only a 3. Where the first film succeeds, this one absolutely fails. I knew it would. There's no way there could ever be a real Blues Brothers again without John Belushi. Sorry. Ain't gonna happen. And it didn't. "},{"Title":"A 180 from the original","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The original Blues Brothers had just the right blend of silliness, camp, randomness, off-the-wall plotlines and great music. 2000, well, it has some music. At the end. Played by a different band.Other than that, 2000 is just bad. It recycles jokes, scenes, ideas - and all poorly. Plus, it's missing the key element Belushi. That man's willingness to make a complete ass of himself doing the most insane things a script has ever called for made the Blues Brothers what they were. Sure, Goodman's competent, but he couldn't fill those shoes.For that matter, no one could.And on top of that, they add a kid in there who has absolutely no business anywhere in the movie. Look at the original - the Blues boys were drunks, philanderers, Public Enemy #1 to both cops and Nazis, angered nuns, cursed and were general hellraisers. Kids, though sometimes hellraisers, don't belong anywhere else on that list, nor do they belong in the movie.But it's not all bad - the appearance at the end by the Louisiana Gator Boys is classic. The movie's almost worth watching for this all-star band, but the scene they're thrown into is just awful.Really, this one shouldn't have been made. Ever. Though it's not as bad as any Pauly Shore feature, Blues Brothers 2000 is just as much as waste of time, money and effort. "},{"Title":"Shame on you Landis and Aykroyd","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Like many other people I loved the Blues Brothers. One of the great musicals of all time. (and I don't even like musicals as a rule)When a film reaches such heights you don't expect the sequel to match it. So naturally my expectations were lowered to some extent when I caught this flick on TV. However I wasn't expecting this pitiful limp offering. First thing I noticed is that the film lacked the energy of the original. But worse was to come, to my astonishment nearly every scene from the original BBs was duplicated, BADLY! I became progressively angrier as I watched this waste of film footage spool along.The only point of interest was watching which of these performers had developed the biggest bald spot or widest girth. BBs 2000 is an insult to the memory of the original film and a lesson to other film makers. Leave the classics alone, they're almost impossible to improve on.  "},{"Title":"When You've Got It Bad","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Many people hate this movie. By any reckoning it is not good.As a comedy film it does not even raise the hint of a smile. There is no plot to mention.The only passable thing is the music but even that is presented in a flat and contrived fashion.This film is often compared with the original Blues Brothers movie and what is often forgotten is the original was not all that good either. Mind you, it had a big plus with John Belushi whereas Blues Brothers 2000 has John Goodman looking lost,Joe Morton making a fool of himself and some extremely annoying kid dancing about to no avail.John Landis may have directed worse than this but he should have had sufficient artistic integrity to realise this was a poor idea. The end result speaks for itself.      "}{"Title":"I am going to hurt some one","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First off, let me say something good about this movie. The music was fantastic, I was humming and singing it for days. This is the kind of music that makes you feel good. But then again, I was humming the music to IDLE HANDS after I had seen that. Think about it. Now the bad thingseverything else. I am serious. Now, call me old fashioned, but aren't movies supposed to have plots? All I can remember was they did a song, had a car crash, did a song, cracked a bad joke, did a song, some guys were turned into mice, did a song, and that was it. I'm not kidding and yes you read that last part right! This does NOT belong in this movie. IT'S A BLUES BROTHERS MOVIE!!!!!!!!! AAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRGGGGGHHHHH!!!!! "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I waited until it was a rental having read the bad reviews but couldn't believe how disappointing the sequel to my favourite movie of all time could be. Apart from the musical segments in the final 20 minutes the movie was almost unwatchable. The comedy was cringe material so the best I can give it is 5/10. I'll just have to keep watching the original. "},{"Title":"A huge disapointment.","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Blues Brothers 2000 competes with Gone Fishin' for #1 on my list of worst movies of all time.  Too much voodoo magic and disney-style mayhem. The movie had so much potential.  The Russian Mafia, Confederate Army, and of course, the police were all after the Blues Brothers (who were actually Elwood, a bartender, a little dork named Buster who thought he could imitate Elwood, and dead Curtis's bastard son, who was probably my favorite of the newbies).  It was basically a remake of the first one with terrible dialog, a terrible plot, and a lot of magic BS rolled into one big ball of crap. Sorry, John Landis.  You should have quit while you were ahead "},{"Title":"Is this movie so bad, it deserved to lose money?","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first movie was just classical, instantly. The proof being a watch right now causes giggles constantly from old & more old & less old. I propose Belushi made people laugh while he was asleep. Awake, a subtle (?) eye movement or eyebrow flip, a physical move - belly laugh. And then he performs his lines...And then some nong had the idea almost 2 decades later to make this? C'mon, get real, get with the progie...'The Blues Brothers' WAS John Belushi. Many could have played Ackroyd's part in 'The Blues Brothers' but no-one, REPEAT, no-one could or can replace John Belushi when it comes to 'The Blues Bothers'...And I'm disappointed in just how BAD this film is. If this is a tribute, then the people who have their names on the credits need to be retrained, re-schooled. Absolutely discraceful. Pure waste of money... "},{"Title":"How can ANYONE trash ARETHA?","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay, I have read most of the reviews here for this sequel and I, like most of the people who have responded with reviews of their own, LOVED the original and John Belushi, and I really have no problem with people trashing the film, or John Goodman even, but when someone like this one dude trashes The QUEEN OF SOUL because she's gained weight over the years or because she sings one of her most famous standards. Respect, that shows NO R-E-S-P-E-C-T at ALL. The woman is STILL the greatest singing voice of the Twentieth AND Twenty First century and it is her VOICE that is the best ever,  and that song remains the most beautiful anthem of R&B, blues and soul... and to trash that destroys any credibility you had up to that point as a worthy critic of ANY kind. John Belushi, John Candy and Cab Calloway are dead and nothing can be done about that, but to say this film is totally without merit is silly and so is comparing it to the original Blues Brothers movie, which, by the way, has plotholes you could drive a CONVOY of trucks through. For instance, what the hell were the Good Ole Boys country band p****d about? Didn't they arrive AFTER THE BAR WAS CLOSED EXPECTING TO PLAY? That should have had their cabaret and union license taken away right there, and it's their OWN damn fault. And then the comments about Dan Ackroyd's bald spot. Didn't they guy wear a hat the whole time anyway? SO THAT'S a pretty lame critique too. Look, the music was phenomenal, the speech that Dan makes about the Russian mob is classic, inspired Dan Ackroyd writing... and the kid had some decent moves and could play the mouth harp with the best of them (assuming he really DID play the thing) and I loved the Ghost Rider's In The Sky rendition done by the band. So don't compare it to the original. It's an homage, for cryin' out loud, though I do wish John's brother Jim Belushi had been in it, but it had something to do with contractual stuff, I believe, anyway. The film is not gold but it's not crap either.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst sequels ever","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What is it with these movies companies? They can't think of anything, so they make a remake or a sequel of a cult hit and we end up with movies like this.I love the Blues Brothers. I wasn't too mad about the idea of a sequel when I first heard about it. At first I decided I wasn't going to see it  after reading so many bad reviews but I went anyway. Came back home. Didn't like it. I gave it a second chance on DVD, still don't like it. Here's what is wrong First of all, its not the Blues Brothers its just Elwoodhis character seems different and 3 other dudesone is a kid, how lame why couldn't they just get some other guy to play John Belushis part. The songs aren't catchy they are just recycled. Its too unreal. The first was unreal but funny and not stupid. The car chases weren't all that great.If you like the first one you won't be too mad about this one. "},{"Title":"Just like a sequel - it sucks","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is unfortunately a perfect example of why there should be a law against sequels.  There have been some reviews that point out the fact that this movie needs to be appreciated as a tribute to the original, but we should not have to read interviews with cast members and directors etc before we can appreciate and enjoy a film.  A bad film is a bad film.  The beauty of the art form of film is that its immediate and has no need for explanation.I think the reason that there has been so much spleen vented in relation to this appalling film is that the original movie was so fantastic that to see a pale imitation/sequel/tribute was just gut wrenching to us followers of the original Blues Brothers as a cult film.  Friends of mine can recite each and every word from the original and whilst yes that is sad it does perhaps explain why the lowest scoring votes for this film seem to come from the age group that was probably most affected by the original.Whilst we see some good ad-lib moments from Aykroyd the rest of the cast, the writers and director just miss the dead-pan reaction that Jake and Elwood gave us to the events in the first film. That was the essence of the original - Jake gets flamed and we see him smoke his cigarette,  they get out of the car it falls apart but no words are spoken just a look and then they are off, the car jumps over the bridge the cars got a lot of pickup, etc etc. The original film is a musical action comedy fantasy - something that should never have worked and I do not think has worked since - especially in this film.The great thing about this film of course is the music and that was a big part of the original with the blues brother soundtrack being a massive international seller.  In this film we see the most amazing bunch of real blues and soul musos ever assembled and perhaps the film could have been saved if they had been able to play a few more sets.2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"I guess I've dragged you down as far as living humans can go","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Your opinion of Blues Brothers 2000 will probably depend on how you regard the original. That particular film has something of the emperor's new clothes in England, where the reputation John Belushi built up on Saturday Night Live is unknown. Similarly, Dan Aykroyd is the slightly overweight one from Ghostbusters over here, and nothing else. Yet an unspoken, university-insisted cool tells the nation's 20-30 somethings that they must love the film, and so they dutifully do. Personally it always struck me as being like the overlong movie of a film student. The direction was good, the music was excellent, and it was nice to see Steven Williams as a psycho cop, but other than that it was so-so entertainment. For many people the difference between the two Blues Brothers films is that of a classic being followed by a turkey. For me it's just the difference between a 6 and a 3.For if The Blues Brothers is indulgent, then Blues Brothers 2000 is the nearest I've ever seen to celluloid masturbation. Tacky, crass, stupid and irritating, I write this with a near-migraine as the sheer inanity of the whole venture has given me a severe headache.It starts well enough, with a dedication to deceased original stars Belushi, Cab Calloway and John Candy (what's that spinning sound I can hear?) and a touching scene where Elwood (Aykroyd) learns of his brother's death. Soon enough, though, Elwood has assembled a new Blues Brothers singing line-up. The lead is Mighty Mack McTeer (John Goodman). Say what you like about Goodman, he may or may not be many things (like, for example, funny) but I doubt even his own mother would argue that he's cool. Adding to the line-up is J. Evan Bonifant as the 10-year-old orphan Buster who Elwood takes under his wing. Awwwwwwwww! Ain't that sweet? A loveable situation ripe for touching heart to heart moments like those that made up the original. Oh, the original wasn't like that? Oh well, it'll help get a family audience, leave it in. The role was originally to go to MacCauley Caulkin, Bonifant managing the not inconsiderable feat of being even more annoying. A precocious brat, whose only purpose in the movie seems to be to induce vomiting, he makes Mickey Mouse look like a hard case with a nasty edge. In fact, so mind-numbingly dull is this trio that CGIed skeleton horses dance over the screen during Ghost Riders in the Sky in an attempt to keep you awake. I really am not making that up.But I digress. Making it a foursome is the bloke who invented Cyberdyne in Terminator 2 and he's actually not that bad for a token black member of the band. You can see him at the oven controls of this movie's production, desperately trying to heat it up, the others holding him back, saying No, leave it Joe, we like this pile of festering horse dung to be half-baked. Whereas the original had faintly amusing send-ups of the stars involved, this one not only has the problem of housing over three times as many musicians in the plot, but also their appearance. This time the cameos are no longer amusing, merely self-congratulatory and turgid. Aretha Franklin, sadly, appears to have lost some of her vocal skills and isn't as strong as she was in the original. Though it is worth watching just to see Wilson Pickett sing Eddie Floyd off the screen.Maybe the real problem is the music. The first specialised in jazz and soul, this one is pure blues. Not even a John Lee Hooker type blues, but a meandering, back-slapping jam of blues, which goes on and on for hours. Like the film, the music elements drag, and a great deal of the cameos would be unknown to a wider audience. Giving the Brothers' backing band more lines and character was also a mistake.The conclusion features a 130-year-old witch who transforms the three adult Blues into bright green dancing zombies. (I promise, I'm not making this up, really!) She also flies, makes instruments appear out of thin air and turns men into rats.Please, please, please - make it stop!!! "},{"Title":"This movie doesn't deserve to exist.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As soon as I heard a sequel for The Blues Brothers was in the works, I was skeptical. I knew without John Belushi it couldn't touch the original, a classic, and my personal favorite movie ever. I thought maybe if I try not to compare it to the original and take it on its own, I could enjoy it. Well, first off I didn't even see it in theaters because it ran here for maybe 2 weeks. And when I rented it on video, I couldn't stand to watch it. The plot is really rather ridiculous, especially towards the end. The casting also hurts the movie. Belushi-dead, Cab Calloway-dead, John Candy-dead, Aykroyd-a shell of his former self, The Blues Brothers Band-did we HAVE to see these guys almost 20 years later? Yikes. It's not the producer's fault for what happened to everyone, that's the facts of life. But making a sequel when what made the original great has gone is idiocy. So you end up with a very hard to like movie. Die hard Blues Brothers fans like myself will consider it blasphemy; casual moviegoers will think it's just plain dumb. Don't bother with BB2K; instead check out the original, especially now that a version with about 20 minutes of new footage has been released on VHS and DVD. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever.","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I can't believe how truly terrible this film was. The acting was atrociously wooden; the dialogue really awful and overall it was an abomination. I wasn't even expecting much as I'd heard it was bad, but I was hoping it would be fun or camp, or in the So bad it's good category. Unfortunately, it was just so bad it was bad. It was a real shame to see Dan Aykroyd doing this rubbish - he can't be that hard up! The only good thing about it was the music - but it really ISN'T worth putting yourself through the film just for the songs. I can't believe how bad the acting was - it reminded me of Sabrina the Teenage Witch - which I like - but they just couldn't pull it off and it didn't work. "}{"Title":"A sequel? What for?","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why did Dan Aykroyd have to make this one only to spoil one of the coolest or proberbly THE coolest movie ever? And why does there have to be a kid in it? Don't get me wrong, the music's still great and the car crash scene is hilarious too but there's just something missing here and that's John Belushi! "},{"Title":"All the ingredients are there, but they didn't switch the oven on!","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The original movie is, and will always be, among my favorites of all time.Then, this comes along... for whatever reason, i never got around to going to the cinema to watch it. perhaps out of fear for it forever ruining the memory of the original. So it was only just last year that i managed to bring myself to watch this monstrosity of a movie. The premise was there, albeit with a very tenuous plot, and the main characters were all there from the original (with the obvious exception of John Belushi) and the musical set pieces were all there too, but something was still missing. I found myself fast forwarding through all the songs to get to the end as quickly as possible.There just seemed to be a lack of any real interest in making a real sequel rather than just a re-hash of the original. This movie was almost just like a TV reunion of the original cast and just showing them do the original scenes out of interest to see if they could still do it.If your memory of the original holds a place in your heart, then avoid this terrible mess of a sequel. And if you have seen this but not the original, then get yourself to the store and buy a copy to show you how it should be done! "},{"Title":"As much fun as an ingrown toenail","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't think of too many sequels that are nearly as good as the original. The list gets even smaller for sequels that topped the original. Now Blues Brothers 2000 is horribly bad, even for a sequel. It does serve as a good example of doing a sequel by numbers. First, it needs to have everything that made the original famous. Let's see, huge car chase, check. A great band that can't get a gig, check. Lots of ticked off people in pursuit of the band, check. Second requirement, the sequel's plot must only deviate slightly from the original. The film succeeds here admirably with most of the best remembered jokes and character traits of the original repeated in ever so slightly modified form. Like most sequels, this movie has no artistic merit whatsoever. It is strictly a cash-in only affair. John Landis hasn't had a success for some time and Dan Aykroyd hasn't had more than supporting roles for a while either. What they've done here however is production line fodder which, ironically for a movie about a blues band, has no soul in it at all.Obviously this movie doesn't have John Belushi in it which means that one thing that made the first movie great, the interplay between him and Dan Aykroyd is missing here. Now I have a soft spot for John Goodman but it just doesn't work here. At least John Landis and Aykroyd didn't replace John with Jim Belushi, perish the thought. But then they decided to add two additional Blues Brothers, a police officer who during the movie discovers the blues and most annoyingly an 11 year old Blues Brother kid. Someone must have looked at the Sitcom 101 manual and found in chapter 1, entitled Kids are cute the instruction that kids who do adult things are always cute and bring laughs. Well, just like in sitcoms, this turns out to be truly stomach turning.The really sad thing about this movie is that it hammered home how far in front Hollywood puts making money instead of making great movies. "},{"Title":"It's all about the music!","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" For those that write bad reviews of this movie it's all about the Music period. It is not any type of sequel...It is all about the music, one amazing wonder car, one amazing band, tons - world record tons - of old cop car crashes, awesome cameos and most of all a tribute to John Candy and Jim Belushi. Yes the story is silly but if you liked the first one you have to watch this movie! The references to the original movie and gags are hilarious. The opening bar sciences are not suitable for younger children though, so parent beware..once again it is all about the music...I enjoyed every minute of this movie! Keep an eye out for the cameos..there are a ton of them! "},{"Title":"Fun movie at it's best....","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm a huge fan of the first movie. Love the music & the acting & overall pace of the first movie. I went into BB2k with an open mind knowing it got bad reviews & for the most part was not good. I was quite pleasantly surprised. If you go into this movie expecting a huge sequel, you will be disappointed. I wasn't expecting a huge sequel. I was expecting exactly what I got. A fun movie. I liked the music, not as much as the original, but it was still fun music. High action and a lot of funny scenes that I rewound several times to watch again. Lots of guest stars you have to pay close mind to and I caught myself remembering each older band member as they were back in the 80's. Thinner, less or no grey hair and more involved with the movie instead of just being The Band. They tried to relive scenes from the original that, although not done well, I saw what they did there. The acting is on par with this kind of movie. I didn't expect Brando or anything like that. I expected exactly what was delivered. And to read that Akroyd & Landis were forced to make the movie in a way that did not suit them, only the execs, tells me that although the movie could have been better, their hands were tied & they did the absolute best they could.I gave the movie a 8 out of 10 stars. Subtract one star because you don't know what happened to Jake. Although really not important to the movie plot, it would be nice to know.Subtract one more star, for general purpose. I don't believe in 10 out of 10 stars in movies. At least not yet.So go in watching this movie with an open mind and know they are just trying to ride the wave that is called movie sequels. When it came out in 1998...even then I knew it wouldn't do well. But yet I still enjoyed the movie thoroughly. "},{"Title":"I am going against the grain, but I do think this movie is underrated","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Perhaps this has to do with the fact that I saw this movie in theaters with my family as a 7-year-old kid. But I do think that the songs were almost all good (364-5789; John the Revalator; I'm Looking for a Fox; Funky Nassau, etc.) It is also a treat to see all the old band members reprise their old roles and to see them in old age. Dan Ackroyd does a good job acting and even improves upon himself, character-wise and acting-wise, in this sequel as compared to the original. John Goodman plays the part of a kinder person than John Belushi's old character. (In fact, I also would not think it heresy to think that John Belushi's character did not contribute that much to the original in the first place. He just was there to say cheap things like Fix the cigarette lighter, Hit it!, You motorhead! No f---ing way!, etc. Elwood was the one who was coming up with ideas on how to keep the Blues Brothers afloat. The viewer of the original movie should not underestimate the degree to which the good music and good screenplay in the original movie is causing him to think The Blues Brothers to be a great movie and not a mere good movie.) Buster may be a trouble-maker, but he is a spirited kid in the movie. Just like the original, the film catches the viewer's attention with the change in scenery. The film, to a slight degree, becomes a little corny with the White Supremacy and Russian gangsters bits, but that only remains a minor part of the film. The film was funny; Elwood's 'shaving cream scene' was hysterical. The Louisiana gig scene at the end was also exciting. The ending scene of the movie was admittedly anti-climactic. However, I do not hesitate in giving this movie a thumbs-up. After all, the film does not drag; it is not boring because it is more fast-paced than most motion pictures.CONCLUDING MESSAGE - No one should feel ashamed to try watching a movie, even if it does have bad reviews. I will personally opine that there is nothing wrong with liking or loving a movie that most people tend to dislike or hate. Film companies, although motivated by profit, generally do not distribute films to the public unless they have a fervent conviction that at least someone will like it. "},{"Title":"Not bad - could have been a great movie","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A lot of people put this film down. Lots of great cameos from the old movie and from music legends.I didn't like John Goodman when he went on SNL & tried to be a Blues Brother. Sadly, that started the problem. Goodman replacing Belushi - there's your problem. (I like Goodman in anything else.) If you really watch the film, Elwood finding & perusing Cab was cool. What needed to happen is little Buster, played by J. Evan Bonifant, needed a better relationship/bonding story with Elwood. (Then the part of Jake being gone would have smoothed out easier.) I always said when Buster breaks out the harmonica (it's out of nowhere) - Elwood should have given him a harp before. Like This is the first cool thing my brother (or Curtis) gave me, etc. Then we would assume he started practicing & was a natural. Again, that could have bonded them together. J. Evan Bonifant won me over with his dance moves during Respect. He shows a lot of talent in the film and it could have made the film better.I'm told about 3 hours of film was on the cutting room floor, and that could have happened somewhat. Anyway, having Mac REPLACE Jake was the problem. Letting Elwood mentor Buster, was NOT the problem if you watch & think about what I just wrote.Only my opinion... but it does make sense. "},{"Title":"Blues Brothers 2000 isn't quite the train-wreck it's made out to be, but it is still a far inferior sequel to an outstanding original.","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The best way to describe the 1998 sequel Blues Brothers 2000 is this If the original 1980 classic was like hearing a really good joke told by a classic stand-up comedian with perfect timing and conviction, Blues Brothers 2000 is like hearing that same joke re-told by a friend with far less charisma. Sure, the humor may still be there. Maybe even a little bit of the charm. But it's just nothing compared to the original, and it does lose a lot in translation.It's too much of a re-telling of the original film, to the point that the label of sequel is an almost inaccurate term to describe it. It's startlingly close to venturing into remake territory. That being said, it's not without its strengths, and I do feel it's nowhere near the abomination and train-wreck that many make it out to be.John Landis returns to direct this sequel, in addition to co-writing the script with star Dan Aykroyd. To make up for the absence of John Belushi and Cab Calloway, several newcomers are added to the film, including John Goodman, Joe Morton and J. Evan Bonifant.18 years after the original film, Elwood Blues (Aykroyd) is finally released from prison, only to discover that his brother Jake and mentor/father-figure Curtis have both passed away. Seeking guidance, Elwood becomes a mentor to Buster (Bonifant), a 10-year-old boy, and seeks out Curtis' illegitimate son Cabel Chamberlain (Morton), whom doesn't take well to the news that his true father was a man his mother had an affair with. After re-uniting with his former drummer, meeting a talented singer named Mack McTeer (Goodman) and running afoul of Russian gangsters, Elwood and the gang decide to re-unite their band to perform again.The film, to its credit, does have a number of strengths.The performances are a lot of fun. Aykroyd does come off as a slightly different character in this film, but I was able to go with it, as Elwood is 18 years older and contending with a different part of his life, dealing with loss and new beginnings. Goodman steals the show, though. His character Mighty Mack is arguably a surrogate and replacement for the late John Bellushi, but Goodman makes the role his own and has a lot of fun making the character different... someone who is not born a Blues Brother, but adopts the persona. Bonifant is a talented child-actor, and he does his best, but the role of Buster is a bit on the poorly-written side, and it feels like too much of a jumping- the-shark gimmick to add a child to the mix. But he does a good job. And Joe Morton is great as Cabel Cab Chamberlain, who is in pursuit of Elwood for much of the film, but may end up joining him under the right circumstances.The music is also fantastic. Much like the original film, the plethora of song-and-dance numbers are perfect, and all feature good, old- fashioned choreography and imagery. They are the one part of the film that easily lived up to the original, if not slightly exceeded it.And beyond that, many of the jokes do work, particularly an uproariously funny recall of the car pileup sequence from the original movie that plays like a deranged cartoon.Those things being said, this is not a good film. It has just as many flaws as strengths, and due to the high quality of the original masterpiece, those weaknesses do stand out even more.As mentioned above, I view the main problem of the film as its insistence to feel less like a sequel and more like a remake. I felt that too much of the film was devoted to references, callbacks, and even entire scenes lifted almost directly from the original. There are moments where this can work (the opening scene outside of the prison, the car-pileup, etc.) in more subtle ways or in ways that cause the film to do the opposite of the original. But this movie doesn't do that. This movie simply tries to constantly point out how similar it is to the first film, no matter how contrived or bizarre it may feel as a result. And when the film just isn't as well put together (as is in the case with this film's script), it makes it seem a lot worse than it is.It also has a wide array of smaller issues with the tone, style and writing beyond the above issue. It feels far more sanitized stylistically, both due to the lower PG-13 rating and just because I believe Aykroyd and Landis were different people when they made this film. It's too... clean. Especially with the addition of a child- actor, which felt like too much of an attempt to soften the material and appeal to the family crowds that the prior film clearly wasn't going for. I also found that many scenes felt jarringly out of place or cartoonish. Even though the first film had a lot of religious imagery and toyed with things like breaking the laws of physics and the whole mission from God... In this film, all of the more over-the-top ideas feel more random and it doesn't gel as well. (Including a bizarre scene where, without spoiling anything, a character appears to lifted from a church and transformed by heavenly light, or another scene in which a Voodoo Priestess exhibits various supernatural powers) It doesn't quite work.Those complaints being said, the music is fantastic and the acting is a lot of fun for the most part. And I do think this is a fundamentally entertaining film (albeit also fundamentally flawed) for those reasons, and nowhere near the atrocity some have made it out to be. Blues Brothers 2000 gets an average 5-out-of-10 for me. See it for the music and try to ignore the rest. "},{"Title":"The Music Keeps The Movie Alive","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When you look back to the original Blues Brothers from 1980, it's really amazing how many people of the cast died since then. There are of course the big one's like John Belushi, Ray Charles, James Brown, Cab Calloway, Kathleen Freeman or John Candy, but also the more unknown one's like Donald Dunn, Alan Rubin or Henry Gibson. I thought that, because of this, a sequel isn't a good idea. That's also the reason why I didn't watch it until now, so 15 years after Blues Brothers 2000 was released.After watching the movie I was relieved The film was a lot better than I expected. Especially the music is once again amazing and it's nice to see John Goodman singing that awesome. To be honest with you Maybe the score was even better than the Blues Brothers one. Otherwise, the story was so-so. It feels like you've already seen it. And this isn't even a feeling, it's the truth, as the plot is nearly the same as the original one. Again, the film starts with the release out of prison, again the band will be renewed and then will drive through the country to the one and final big gig. It seems like John Belushi is replaced by John Goodman, Cab Calloway by John Morton, and the Nazis by the Russians. The only missing part is the huge chase with the police, which was easily the best moment of Blues Brothers. But don't get me wrong, the story is still great. But it's just a copy from the original one without the great characters of John Belushi or Cab Calloway.Overall the film is average, but the music is so good that it's not as important as usual. While the 1980 version is still a classic and one of the best movies ever made, this one is in the middle of the pack with six out of ten points. "},{"Title":"A pointless sequel","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This directionless and unnecessary sequel sees Dan Aykroyd reforming the old Blues Brothers band, this time with John Goodman, Joe Morton and where-is-he-now child actor J. Evan Bonifant.There's no story, just a series of musical set pieces and car crashes - much like the original movie, only not as good. Too much of the film is devoted to prolonged set-up, very few jokes are funny, and John Landis's direction is hopelessly static. But the music, as before, is fantastic; the concert sequences have an energy sorely lacking in the rest of the film. In the name of full disclosure, there is one terrific scene a huge pile up in which car after car after car after smash into each other until there's a ridiculously huge pile of tangled metal in the middle of the road. Otherwise, it's missable. "}{"Title":"Come on People...","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" So many people regard this movie as horrible because of the original. I loved the original just like everyone else, but I don't completely hate a movie just because of that. Yes, John Belushi had passed on and wasn't able to be in the movie. However, I bet that he would of wanted it to take place. Had he still been alive, I'm sure he would of been one of the first people signed on for it's production. It has a great cast with a light storyline just like the first. Amazing music just like the first. The only thing missing is Mr. Belushi himself, but that is in no way a reason this movie should be voted a 4/10. Believe me, if you liked the first one movie, give this movie a shot. Go into with a care free mind and you will enjoy it just like you did the first. You will want to dance around, just like you did the first. Enjoy!! ) "},{"Title":"Has a lot the first didn't, but is missing what made that one what it was","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I think that really says it. This is just lacking a certain something. It does have things that are new to the series, but are they positive, and/or do they fit? I realize that Landis does fantasy sometimes, and, hey, I'm not saying that can't be great, it's not a genre I'm into, but I have enjoyed an effort or more within it, and it can be done well and right, as I would say all forms of expression can. With that said... did he feel it fit, here? The first may have had elements, but they were so toned down and could be rationalized away by those of us not big on that. Also, the original had a point. What were they headed for, here, where were they going? The modernization and overdoing didn't help any, and this time, everything seems possible and at the fingertips of the leads. There's not a trace of a sense of danger. Finally, the kid... honestly, he's not bad. No, I mean that. One would think that would be the fatal blow, but save for the very end, he's seldom-to-never irritating(to me, anyway). An instantly obvious, and well-known, shortcoming, here, is of course Belushi(R.I.P.). Him not being there is acknowledged, but where does the line go? Surely before so many in the cast have had condoling the loss be one of their first pieces of dialog that the viewer can't help but wonder why they made this in the first place. In fact, why did they? Elwood can't carry this on his own, he was part of a duo. It's not that I have a problem with Aykroyd. Not even a little, I admire him elsewhere. He just doesn't have the other person here, to spar with, to play off of. He also seems to have forgotten how to write and play the character(heck, that last one goes for the whole bunch, at least to a degree), with the result that he's turned into a parody of himself. The pacing is surprisingly tolerable. This is partially a remake, with one scene after the other that mimic the '80 one, if the order isn't the same. They didn't feel sorted, this time, or carefully arranged, but instead merely thrown together, as to avoid messing up the formula. The same goes for the song choices... I'd guess they went with what they wanted, rather than what actually fit. I didn't care for the pieces as much, but to each his own(and they do put some new styles in this). The direction isn't bad as such, it's just not engaging. The car-chases really took a nosedive. Where they were detailed and downright operatic in the one preceding this, they seem decidedly uninspired here. One bit, they seemed content with simply tossing the vehicles into the view of the camera, over and over, with the sophistication only equalled by a young bully kicking down a sand-castle. This in general wasn't fun, or funny, in my opinion. It is absolutely tasteless at one point. It gets too far out, slapstick and cartoonish. It boils down to that this seems like a largely aimless, if finely edited and shot, long music video. So, did they mainly want to put something that could be described as that up on the silver screen? If so, hey, good for them, they succeeded. This also stooped to the level of gratuitous sexuality, if no nudity, in more than one sequence. It contains some language, fairly harsh. The DVD holds a theatrical trailer, production photos and notes, posters and a making of. I recommend this to... fans of the tunes, I suppose. I'll admit that this isn't the worst flick out there, but as a sequel, it's quite underwhelming. 5/10 "},{"Title":"BB2K It's Not The Original..And Never Will Be","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Remember Jake and Elwood Blues and their mission from god? Of course you do. Who doesn't love those Blues Brothers and their musical mayhem induced misadventures? This movie is nothing more than an attempt to try and follow up to the original - and it fails.John Landis returns to direct even though some say that his directing career sort of went downhill in the late 80's (specifically some say it was after the accident that killed Vic Morrow and those kids during the filming of Twilight Zone The Movie) and onto the 90's (although Oscar with Sly Stallone was moderately good - heck Siskel and Ebert both gave it a thumbs-up).Dan Akyroyd returns as writer and star of this movie as Elwood Blues, at the beginning of this movie Elwood is just getting out of prison when he receives news from the Penguin (no, not the Batman villain, the nun from the first movie) that his partner Jake Blues has unfortunately passed away. This is never explained in the movie at all even though in the opening credits it says it is dedicated to the memory of John Belushi as well as to John Candy and Cab Calloway, who also passed away before this movie got made.So Elwood tries to get the rest of the old band together, minus Jake of course. Along the way we meet the new guys First of which is Mighty Mack played by John Goodman. (Come on Goodman, you're far too good to be in a movie like this).We also meet our Tagalong Kid character who goes by the name Buster.We also meet Cabby who is reluctant to join until he receives a message from above and is instantly transformed into a Blues Brothers band member. The light shines down on him and he seems to be floating for some reason. I'd hate to steal a joke from Film Brain, but.....SYMBOLISM! Next we have some of the zaniest and messed up car chase scenes ever- the chase scenes in the original were truly spectacular but here they're just completely cartoonish. Such as the Bluesmobile being able to go underwater.We get it, the Bluesmobile is an awesome car - it can survive anything. This is completely and utterly insane even by this logic. What? Is it it like Linkara's magic gun or something? Is it possessed ala Christine? After all that nonsense we get to see a few returning cameos mainly by James Brown (r.i.p godfather of soul) and Aretha Franklin. And I admit the musical numbers in this are pretty awesome.There's also a scene where the band go to see a voodoo queen/priestess by the name of Queen Mousette (this scene is later referenced/paid homage to in the second Pirates of the Caribbean movie).So the voodoo priestess asks the band if they know any calapyso songs to which Elwood tells her that the band can play all kinds of musical but to the calalypso part he says no (this is the second time Dan Akyroyd has actually said no when answering a powerful being such as a ghost, deity or sorceress - the first one being in Ghostbusters).Because of this she transforms them into green skinned zombies that sing calapyso songs and I admit, their performance of Funky Nassau is pretty good. But this is just flat out of nowhere. It's like I'm expecting MJ to make an appearance and start dancing along with them (hey...it would be Thriller The Sequel).And this just comes out of nowhere. So...yeah...it's...a Big Lipped Aligator Moment! Also a few of the band members get turned into stone. Don't tell me Queen Mousette is actually part Gorgon! There are also several scenes in which several more of the ever-growing enemy list for the bad show up including some russians who get turned into mice.There are more wacky car chase scenes, some more musical numbers and Elwood gives a speech which is extremely epic as well as some goofy slapstick including the band getting covered in goo (most likely the same stuff the Stay Puft Marshmellow Man was made out of). And after all this - the band finally get to perform as the movie ends, during the end credits we see a performance by James Brown along with the band.So that was Blues Brothers 2000, and was it any good? Not really. It's pretty iffy overall - the musical numbers are fun and there are some good scenes but most of it is completely weird.Also why doesn't it ever explain the cause of Jake's death? I'm serious. We don't ever get an explanation for this at all.Dan Akyroyd does well but I think even he knows how bad this movie was going to be, as for the other performers - well they did rather well but again....you can't top the original.The movie is okay....but it will never be as good as the original. Maybe i'm looking at this through Nostalgia goggles but i personally believe and know that the original is and always will be the best.Blues Brothers 20000 doesn't hold up well and compared to the original just flat out fails.I give it 2 out of 10 stars and only 1% out of 1000, the music was the only strong point - the rest was just plain weird.I don't recommend seeing this one, instead...just stick to the original movie and you'll be fine. "},{"Title":"This was stupid -","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was stupid on so many levels.    Why this was made, no idea.    It's not nearly as good as the first Blues Brothers and has pure   boredom to entertain you.    Just because a boatload of musicians are in here and because Dan   Aykroyd is in it, does not make it a Blue Brotehrs movie.    The story is retarded, beyond stupid and the poor execution of comedy   by trying to have 100 police cars fly over each other in an accident is   just lousy to the extreme.    It's not funny. It's lame.    John Goodman - whom is always fantastic has been greatly wasted in   here.    This is what basically killed his career. Before this movie, he had a   rocking career and after this, well it all went downhill.    This movie is bottom of the barrel, not even good enough for a rainy   day. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'The Blues Brothers 2000' is a miserable and embarrassing 'sequel' to one of the greatest musical comedies ever committed to celluloid, the film is a mess John Landis shouldn't of bothered the suits at Universal should of put their foot down and should of focused on some other project. when i first heard that they were doing a sequel to 'The Blues Brother's i initially thought okay this could be great but uh-oh i was wrong, when i took my seat to see it there was only a few other patrons seeing this execrable mess! okay,okay it does have some great musical appearances from BB King and Eric Claptin but that is the only redeemable thing to this turkey "},{"Title":"What  A Joke!","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Me and my ex-boyfriend went to see the film when it first came out, what a joke! Why a sequel? I have to admit the music in the film was great with very impressive cameo appearances by such musicians as Blues Traveler, Eric Clapton, Steve Winwood, Dr. John, B.B. King, etc. The script of this film was written horribly the story line was almost a carbon copy of the first Blues Brothers movie. In other words it was almost history repeating itself. The movie was not all that hilarious except for when Elwood came out of the men's room of a restaurant with his head looking like a giant zit. This film should have been a live concert instead of a drama nightmare! Believe it is not worth seeing. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love the Blues Brothers, and I hate reading all the negative comments on here about how much this movie sucks.Yes, Belushi is missed, but hes dead, and this movie was meant to be a tribute to him.Yes, the plot is a little thin, but who cares? It's not about the plot. It's about the music. And having grown up listening to Blues, I think this movie has a pretty good line up and most of my favourites are in there.Yes, the car chases are a bit weak in this one, but do you not think.. maybe thats the point? They already did all they could do with a car chase in the original, so in the Let there be Drums car chase it's like lets drag this on and on and just go nuts piling up cars for fun. To see how far they could go with it. To be honest, I think piling up about 100 cars or whatever it is is most mens dream. It's like scaletrix or something on a massive scale. You know you used to crash them whenever you got the chance, gentlemen.I think its unfair to say that this film sucks just because John Belushi isn't in it etc etc.. the guy is dead, get over it and enjoy this film for what it is, and what it is is a pretty great tribute to the kind of music that Belushi loved while he was with us..... anyone who really is a fan of his should be able to see that. "},{"Title":"Worth it for the music","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love the first film. The second - well, as we all know, we don't have John Belushi with us anymore, which is one strike right there. The filmmakers made the good choices of John Goodman and Joe Morton as backup singers. Had they stopped there, the film would have been much better.Instead, a kid was thrown into the mix. An orphan, of course. Awwww. Elwood Blues is supposed to act as mentor for the kid (Buster), but forgets to return Buster to the orphanage, getting half the cops in the country and several mean orphanage workers on his tail.Now, the whole point of the first Blues Brothers film is that these guys can't stay out of trouble. The character of Elwood, with or without Brother Jake, is going to get himself in it up to his eyeballs. The whole story about Elwood being chased for kidnapping is ludicrous. Elwood is going to get in trouble for one thing or another. It didn't have to be kidnapping.Thus, we end up listening to a prepubescent kid squalling the lines of a damned good song, one that was belted out by three fine singers (Aykroyd, Goodman, and Morton), thus ruining the whole effect. It's no wonder that the Blues Brothers lost the Battle of the Bands - I'd have booed them offstage for bringing a kid into the mix.There's an cloying, aren't-we-cute gushiness about Buster and his little Blues Brothers outfit that almost gags me. I loved the musical numbers and all the guest artists - and what an impressive group they are! - so I can't understand why the filmmakers would drag down the storyline by introducing a kid, and throwing in all the clichs associated with a small child interacting with adults. The kid is precocious. He's (supposedly, though I see no evidence of it) a good singer. He gives a pep talk at the crucial time. He's easy to bond with. It just doesn't work.I will watch it for the music and for Elwood's highly inventive method of parallel parking, but I fast-forward through Buster's scenes. "},{"Title":"to much explaining why or How. in sequels no mystery left","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I think the problem with all sequels, that are made more than say 10 yrs or son after the original, is that they try to hard and explain things all the in-depth research in why characters act or do what they do. the feel or mood is lost. Star wars (not a big fan of), did the same, to much talk, talk talk, like a soap opera the last 3 new sequels, no one cares why Darth Vader turned evil. We are to much an info society, we strip the mystery away, and that is what really pulls us into a film, we really don't need things explained in detail, it' like todays song writers, they can't say things in general terms, like say  If I fell in love with you, would you promise to be true (if I fell@ Beatles 1964) would be written something like MY name is John Lennon, I'm British, And if I was to have feelings of desire and companionship with you Yoko Ono, an artist from Japan, would you possible have like feelings for me, on a Tuesday if it was raining?! to much info, hard for people to relate, and put themselves in the song .like me and Becky sue, with her blonde hair, red eyes and size 6 shoes she got at the gap, got in my light sky blue 2004 Chevy s10 pickup truck, with roll bars and halogen head lights, and we listened to country line dance tunes on radio station KLMX 99.5, out of Dallas Texas, on that 23rd of May 2005, driving down highway 456 south of Austin!! la la la! ( me and my girl drove down the road listing to the radio) sequels do much of the same thing, to much explaining, and far to much information. Just give me another story, and I can figure things out. Just my idea. p.s the songs where to often mass production, throw everything in , including the kitchen sink for sound!( remember the opener to the blues brothers album  So much of the music we hear today is nothing but pre-programmed electonic disco..we never get to hear master craftsmen practice there craft anymore...) for the blues, keep it simple, and down to earth. "},{"Title":"Big disappointment","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I loved Blues Brothers so much that I was disappointed by Blues Brothers 2000 big time! I could have guessed anyway considering that Belushi was dead and telling from the cheesy title ... and yet it was even worse! It just doesn't have the charm of the first part, it doesn't have a new plot, everything is recycled and synthetic. There was also no need to include a kid. I mean it's already enough that one out of two main characters had to be replaced. Although I might admit that John Goodman did his job well.Sadly, this a typical second part of a cult movie that was just produced to make more money, not because there was a new idea or something. Somebody just took all the elements and scenes that made the first part so good, and cloned them, just badly. You can almost predict what will happen next if you have seen the first part. Really, Blues Brothers 2000 had only one really cool scene and only one part where I was laughing. "}{"Title":"Not even half the movie the classic was","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" THE BLUES BROTHERS 2000 includes the same recipe as the original Blues Brothers from the 80ties, filled with musical moments of sheer joy and R&B to the bones, and some very science fiction influenced action scenes and a lot of Christian soul into it. Without the original Belushi brother we're here introduced to a small kid and John Goodman filling his shoes, although not very successful.THE BLUES BROTHERS 2000 hasn't got any of the magic, hilarious scenes or entertainment level that the original had. All of the crazy moments are gone, though there are musical scenes with energy from another world the movie simply doesn't get it funny, clever or dumb enough to be that of a killer. Dan Aykroyd does his part okay, but has lost all of the immorality and coolness that made his Eldwood Blues so extremely entertaining and chill factored, and the rest of the crew, well it doesn't really work that well.Though off course there are several highlights here with BB King and Eric Clapton jamming together, Aretha Franklin returning this time with her number one hit Respect and another Christian revival meeting going crazy, though it doesn't have half the guts or hit wonder magic of the original movie. It's a let-down, though there are things here that truly entertains it doesn't really make up for it. "},{"Title":"Futile","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is not the worst movie in the world, but alongside with the remake of Psycho this is probably the most pointless. Almost every single scene from the original classic is duplicated and the only thing it adds is some crappy CG scenes which fit to the movie about as well as trousers to a rubber duck. Why on earth did they have to wait for 17 years if they hadn't a single new idea? The worst thing is that with truckloads of money and modern SFX, you would think this one would have the greatest car-crashing scene of all time, considering the predecessors funny sequences. But no. In this the police cars only smash to each others rear end for ten minutes. For Christ's sake! Haven't these cops ever heard that you can brake with your car? So in fact it's the worst car smashing scene of all time.The best thing about this movie is the music. There are cameos from old faces (Aretha Franklin, James Brown) and newcomers (Wilson Pickett, Eric Clapton etc.) alike. The soundtrack is almost as good as the first one with classics like R.E.S.P.E.C.T and great new songs like Looking for a Fox. The only bad new song is Turn on Your Love Light, which is like a lame copy of the original movie's Everybody Needs Somebody to Love.As for the cast, they never really fill the void John Belushi left (maybe Jack Black would've been a good contender). John Goodman is good and surprisingly he can also sing OK, but he as well as Joe Morton are underwritten. And it's never a clever idea to bring a kid to a sequel (the Mummy Returns, anyone?) especially a singing and dancing one. Dan Aykroyd is still the quieter brother and that's why he's really not a convincing main character and the band members still can't act to save their lives. Frank Oz manages to raise a smile, though.All in all, it's not a very bad movie, and you might actually enjoy it if you haven't seen the original. See the original, if you can choose. It's still really funny, cool and funky unlike this. Sadly, John Landis is on the club of the directors, who can't make worthy successors to the great movies in their earlier career. It's spooky, that all of them are actually named John; Landis, Woo, McTiernan and Carpenter.**1/2 (5/10)Best Part (SPOILERs) All the musical scenes are worthy but the Ghost Riders in the Sky sequence is probably the best. "},{"Title":"distinctly average overall","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the original Blues Brothers, but the sequel does not match up.The music is good (although I think the original was better), the cameos are outstanding (especially at the end) and visually, you cant fault it.The plot however.. What have they done? It just isnt the same. It needed to be more grimy, less sleazy and contrived. More realistic car chases and no kids.One poster commented that half of the fun of the first movie was seeing two white blues guys and that having a black guy in the second film removed the joke. Perhaps not; surely the joke is that the black guy hasnt got a musical bone in his body.It's worth watching - there are gems in the film, and is good value particularly as part of the dual DVD pack.5/10. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie. The original was.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is not great. My biggest problem with this movie is the script. In the first movie you had raw humor, some explosions, great car chases and great music. In this movie you have one car pile-up and great music. Something is missing. The problem here is the Dan Aykroyd script. He left the raw humor and car chases in favor of family-oriented fun and a cute kid. Not a good replacement. The music is still great, but buy the soundtrack instead.  "},{"Title":"Alright it's not as good as the original but its not THAT bad","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I know I know I know.  It's not as good as the first movie - not even close. BUT; I don't think that it deserves the pasting it has received.  I picked BB2K up as a double pack on DVD with the original Blues Brothers (on a 2 for 12.99 no less) and was expecting it to be awful - so I was pleasantly surprised to find it was in fact quite watchable.Probably what is more interesting than the movie itself is the making of featurette on the DVD.  BB2K is more a trip down memory lane than anything else and it seems to not try to be too much more than a bit of nostalgia.Rent it or get it for free with the original but don't buy it on its own - hardly one you'd earmark for your DVD collection unless of course you are a die hard Blues Brothers collector... "},{"Title":"THE BLUES NOTHING MORE DEPRESSING THAN THIS SEQUEL","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At first glance, you might think this is a seriously unnecessary sequel and more about producers in a shameless search of the mighty fast-buck. On second glance, you'll probably feel about the same.Short of a couple of decent performances (John Goodman, who's so likeable and able as an actor), the rest of the cast looks tired. Some decent music for the soundtrack (which will also bring in a few fast dollars), and that's about it. Stay with the original 1980 Aykroyd/Belushi vehicle, BLUES BROTHERS; which without doubt, is a much better motion picture. Not recommended, unless you have unwanted houseguests and you want them to leave pronto.      "},{"Title":"John Goodman is NOT cool!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  O.K, the Blues Brothers is cool and has appeal to many generations. I thought this movie was fine. The addition of the black police chief as the lost Blues brother was excellent, even that little tyke had a few decent lines. Dan Ackroyd was fine ( but I hated his yellow tinted glasses in this movie - black baby!) - but John Goodman is NOT cool!!!! As a teenager who had heard of and seen the original Blues Brothers, I was expecting a cool movie. But as soon as I saw the poster in my theatre with John Goodman on it alongside Dan Ackroyd, I knew instinctively ( and sadly) that this movie wasn't going to be cool. Let's not beat around the bush - John Goodman is a fat man. What's so cool about seeing a middle aged fat man? NOTHING! I say without John Goodman this movie might have been a four star affair, but with John Goodman literally weighting down the entire picture I give it just two stars.  "},{"Title":"Skip the movie, buy the Soundtrack","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Blues Brothers 2000 is a movie that never should have been made. It's a shame that the now ultra-commercial Dan Akroyd would even consider this project. He used to be funny. What the heck happened to the guy? Anyway, there is not a single original moment in this entire movie. It's mostly a dumbed-down re-hashing of the classic original Blues Brothers movie. Although Blues Brothers 2000 is an absolutely terrible movie, much like it's predecessor, it features an outstanding array of music. Both soundtracks are well worth adding to any collection, but don't bother buying Blues Brothers 2000.  "},{"Title":"Mysterious Ways","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If we accept all of the criticisms posted on this page about the lack of plot, originality, mis-casting and the rest, and take them all away - what are we actually left with? Answer A simple movie that gives music, wit, action, and laughs at a pace that we can all enjoy.I don't remember the original movie ever pretending to be anything more than that, why should the sequel? "},{"Title":"Mysterious Ways","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If we accept all of the criticisms posted on this page about the lack of plot, originality, mis-casting and the rest, and take them all away - what are we actually left with? Answer A simple movie that gives music, wit, action, and laughs at a pace that we can all enjoy.I don't remember the original movie ever pretending to be anything more than that, why should the sequel? "}{"Title":"Jam packed with music, comedy, and an all-star cast!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"     Usually sequels to movies aren't as good as the original.  With Blues Brothers 2000, I'll make an exception.  In this one Dan Ackoryd reprises his role as Elwood Blues who just got out of prison and looking to reform the band after the death of brother Jake.  Along the way, he runs into an orphan boy, a bartender (John Goodman), and an officer who chases them and reluctantly joins the band.  Together with a few supporters and having the whole police force follow them, they go to Louisiana for a concert.  It never specifies how Jake died, though.    Blues Brothers 2000 is enjoyable in more ways than one.  A lot of appearences from well-known musicians (that's Jonny Lang as the custodian), great music, and a lot of wild chase scenes that's sure to please.  The funniest part was the whole church scene.  I strongly recommend this comedy for friends, families, and parties.  It's a very uplifting and riveting movie.  Even if you're not familiar with The Blues Brothers, this flick is still enjoyable.  I sure liked it, and it's something I would watch again.  I give Blue Brothers 2000 four stars tops! "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie could have had real potential.  Instead it was a re-hashing of plots from the original movie and real cringe making scenes.  I mean, driving the car underwater, and that scene where the queen turns the bad guys into mice, oh please!One plus point though, an excellent soundtrack.  I taped it off TV, and just fast forward to the songs! "},{"Title":"The Music Outdoes The Storyline!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"    I don't remember seeing the original BLUES BROTHERS movie (1980), but I saw this about a week ago on TV. I thought it was OK. No doubt I watched it mainly because I'm a blues guitarist freak and this movie features BB. King, Eric Clapton, Matt Guitar Murphy, Steve Cropper and Jimmie Vaughan. Somehow the music seems to win me over to like this movie as most of the stars just keep bursting into song throughout! BB. King was great singing 'How Blue Can You Get' and I really enjoyed the soundtrack to this movie. There are still some very funny scenes (now and again!) but if you love soul, blues and funky music you might wanna check this one out! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Nice Music, Poor Film","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not a touch on the original, either musically or as a comedy however the music carries the rest of the film.  The car chase is poor, the jokes are the same as in the first film and almost nothing happens for the first hour of the film, once the film does get going all it succeeds in doing is making you wonder why it was at this sort of pace right from the start.I can imagine that if you hadn't seen the first film you might well enjoy Blues Brothers 2000 a lot more but, there is really no comparison. "},{"Title":"Get the soundtrack, skip the movie.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Blues Brothers was a classic. Blues Brothers 2000 was not, which is unfortunate considering the cast and the effort it must have taken to bring together everyone. Sadly they felt the need to infuse some cuteness with a kid who can't sing or act and redo every scene in the original, only in a less fresh way to less effect.That being said, the music is great (outside of the one verse when they let 'Buster' take the lead when it's obvious he can't sing) and the movie is worth viewing once just for that. They did leave some of the music off of the soundtrack, so there are a few gems you'll want to hear on screen. Otherwise the movie is mostly forgettable, and once again shows why sequels to classic movies are so often bad ideas.I gave it a 5, but only because of the music. Were it not for that, this movie would have easily rated a 2 or 3.  "},{"Title":"Sequels are bad, this is worse","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I Was in the US during the Christmas holidays of 1997, me and my buddy visited Universal Studios Hollywood. And there I saw IT. A big sign that said Blues Brothers 2000. And my first thought was YEAAAAAH!!!!As a big fan of the original I realized that this one would be less enjoyable, but then again these are the BLUES BROTHERS man. What could go wrong?I tell you. First of all that annoying, never funny, arrogant kid (if I wanted to see another HOME ALONE movie, I would not bought a ticket for the Blues Brothers, Would I?). Second of all the cowardly character played by John Goodman (C'mon I mean the fun of the first one was the undisturbed acting of the 2 brothers) and third of all the lack of humor (maybe I missed it). I can not say a lack of plot because the first one didn't had any (but still was incredibly funny).Still I gave this picture a 5 out of 10. I know it's more than it deserved, but I am a big Blues Brother fan. Still if you haven't seen this one, please don't rent it or watch it on tv. It is not worth your time and you will regret it the rest of your life. Just rent the original once more and enjoy the great John Belushi again. It's much better than the best (I mean less worthless) performance in the sequel.This one is the worst of all sequels "},{"Title":"oh, no!","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you liked, craved, adored The Blues Brothers you will hate, despise and loathe this one. It is a crass, filthy, shallow commercial operation, which blatantly copies some of the gags and situations of the old one - with a brand new final which isn't a patch on the car chase scene. The only reason i vote this 3 is for the music... but i find disrespectful for Aretha Franklin & co. to involve them in this load of manure. "},{"Title":"I know you love the music, but you folks have to make a movie workable first...","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ah, Blues Brothers 2000, this hotly anticipated sequel had my immediate interest, as I was a huge fan of the original, and I have a lot of respect for Mr. Aykroyd and his work.  Unfortunately, this effort left me with a bad taste in my mouth.  The fault wasn't in the music or performers.  The problem wasn't the missing element of Belushi's charm.  Nor does the problem lie in the execution.  It was very well made.  I expect nothing better than top-notch direction from Mr. Landis, and Blues Brothers 2000 delivered. The problem with this film is the shoddy story, humor (or lack thereof), and unforgivably unsatisfying ending.I was very pleased to see so many returning faces, such as Kathleen Freeman, Frank Oz, and Bob- and of course the musical legends James Brown, Aretha Franklin, etc.  They were completely in their element with this film.  The performances were of the highest caliber and was a joy to watch.  The car chase scenes, although scarce, were very entertaining.  I especially loved the scene following the Blues Brothers encounter with Bob, the disgruntled bar owner from the first film (a restauranteur in this sequel).  The Blues Brothers magic was in full form during this car chase sequence.  This film needed more of it, much more. SPOILER ALERT The story however....let's break it down and see where we went wrong.  The opening is fine, Elwood is released from an 18 year stint.  What's unbelievable here is that he would have NO idea of the fate of his brother Jake.  Next up on the no-no meter is the revelation that, despite all the effort the Blues Brothers made to save the Penguin's orphanage in the first film, it was closed down and sold anyway!  Everything the Blues Brothers had achieved in the first film was completely shot to hell.  A minor thing that I find amusing is how Cab (Morton) has an EXTREMELY short conversation via phone with his mother regarding his lineage.  He plops the question on her like a ton of bricks, gets his answer, and hangs up on her with total ease. What the?  I understand the pace of the film has to be given precedence, but damn!  And finally, the ending...what a shame this is.  We journey with Elwood to perform a concert contest for the Voodoo Queen (definate Landis influence here with Aykroyd flair).  Why does he need to be there?  We don't know, but we'll root for him anyway.  Here's the bummer- he loses the contest.  Very unsatisfying.  We want Elwood to win this contest.  We appreciate the rival Louisiana Gator Boys' immense list of talent, but come on!  This isn't who's supposed to win.  Anyhow, the film ends precisely with what we want to see more of...hundreds of cops chasing the Bluesmobile down the road.  We're only treated with this at the very end, and it doesn't but a minute.  A shame.  Blues Brothers 2000 is mostly populated with the kinds of elements that we fast-forward on the original.  Too much of the bad stuff and definitely not enough of the things that made the original such a fun treat.  And most disappointing of all was the poorly executed humor. This film had nothing but forced gags which left audiences chuckling only due to the fact that they felt they should.  I can only identify two times that this film got genuine laughs.  One line of Goodman's concerning a medical college, and another from one of Aykroyd's wonderfully mind-boggling monologues concerning the fall of the Romanovs.I'm not in the business of badmouthing people, and I still have immense respect for Aykroyd, Landis, and the various cast/crew/performers from this film and I know they will continue to achieve great things in their careers; but I won't hesitate to point out bad performances and bad mistakes. Blues Brothers 2000 is ridden with too many bad mistakes that SHOULDN'T have happened. "},{"Title":"What plot?","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film had *no* plot. It had a circumstance. It had a time line, setting and marginal character development, but *no plot*.Performances by Ackroyd and Goodman are disappointing.The *only* thing that makes this movie worthwhile is the band competition at the end where Paul Schaffer has used his remarkable influence to assemble a band of the biggest names in blues for a performance culminating with a joint effort with the Blues Brothers Band. (Although, I don't think they're even on the same set.)Fast forward to the ending sequence. (Okay, stop for the completely unmotivated, but fun, cop car pileup.) "},{"Title":"Highlights  Matara the stripper and the House of Blues.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the 73rd comment listed.  Like the film, is it really needed?  Really, there was enough Blues Brothers in the first film to last a lifetime.  I can't even remember when I saw the Blue Brothers movie for the first time but I have sure seen it a million times replayed on television.  It seems every few weeks I'm watching a few minutes, and the film plays pretty well that way.  It was much too long but it's parts were better than the whole.  At least you never had to worry what was happening, it was just a series of musical numbers and chases and I would usually stay tuned for two chases and song (the length between commercials).  Chance had it that it was usually the chase through the mall or the scene where the Nazis go flying off the end of the interstate.  Now we get a sequel and I'm sure I'll end up seeing it on television over and over again (odds are I'll end up catching the underwater driving scene each and every time and watching the boat go flying in the air on top of Darryl Hammond and sorry I had missed the strip club scene earlier with Matara.)  As everyone states the plot is exactly like the first, almost scene per scene  the prison release, the orphanage, the racist, the men with guns (okay in the first it was a woman with gun), the gathering of the band, the unexpected country gig, the Baptist revival (once again with James Brown and an acrobatic congregation), the police chase pile up, Frank Oz, etc...etc...etc...  The climax of the film appears to be in one of Dan Ackroyd's HOUSE OF BLUES complete with a decade's worth of bookings all performing on stage at the same time (B.B.King, Eric Clapton, Isacc Hayes, Dr. John, Travis Tritt, Lou Rawls and the list goes on). I like the Disneyesque Voodoo decor at the HOUSE OF BLUES and I liked it here (hey, I'm a white Californian).  Ackroyd warned audiences of homogenized music replacing the real stuff when he introduced the Blues Brothers years ago in a concert debut in Los Angeles.  Here we see the homogenized blues performances from everyone involved.  At least with the legends in this film it's not bad, just not their best.  There is absolutely no heart to their performances and for blues that's not good.  When the late Cab Calloway appeared in concert in the first film you could tell that Calloway knew this was a chance he hadn't had in years (to be in a film with such a large, young audience) and really poured his heart and talent into it.  The principal players in this film are fine (Ackroyd and company give more to this script than would be expected) and seeing legendary comedic actress Kathleen Freeman (Mother Mary Stigmata) still at the top of her game is terrific.  The most out of place scene in the film is the strip bar scene (director John Landis loves his naked ladies), but on the other hand the most memorable character...for me...was indeed the stripper Matara (played by Shann Johnson).  Why haven't we seen ...um more...of this woman?  Awesome WWF body, sweet personality, good with kids (the only time the kid in this film seemed happy was when he was with Matara.  Good taste kid.)  If only the story stayed in the bar, did some character development, developed relationships, played a little south side blues (with Shann Johnson dancing), then that would have been a great film.          "}{"Title":"mostly a disappointment","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" John Landis' Blues Brothers 2000 has a ridiculous plot that goes nowhere (at least the original had somewhat a plot to get money to save a church) and is dumb to enough of a degree to warrant it almost as patched-together in a coffee-shop over three nights. Also, for die hard fans of the original, they will feel a great, unavoidable void where John Belushi fit in the original as Jake Blues (Belushi is dead). So that's the disappointment. And there are others, including the inevitable rehashing by Landis and Aykroyd of the past plot line almost to a T with extra fluff like the responsibility factor, whatever that is, put upon Jake and the kid. The car chases, too, are only so-so when compared to the audacity and bizarre originality of the first film's chases (good for their time, and almost too simple and predictable to do twenty years later). But the film isn't totally irredeemable- it almost sets itself up NOT to be by overloading with various Blues icons both old and not so old. So the climactic big performance featuring a who's who of blues and rock musicians is almost worth seeking out the film to see, at least if you're a fan. But it is definitely hit (very narrow hit) or very much a miss for original fans of the SNL series and (compared to this) absolute post-modern 1980 classic comedy. That it only provides a few solid laughs make it all the more dreary, a sign of Landis's decline from his high peak in the 80's. Cameos include Frank Oz, Darrell Hammond, BB King, Steve Lawrence, Eric Clapton, Erykah Badu, Aretha Franklin, Isaac Hayes, Dr. John, Steve Winwood, John Popper (Blues Traveler), and James Brown as the always awesome Reverend Cleophus James (who actually provides the funniest part of the film after the end credits!) "},{"Title":"A good film...if you overlook the plot.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is basically the first movie with a promotion.  The only thing anyone should do that has to do with this film is go out and buy the soundtrack.  The music saves the film all the way.  Nowhere else will you see Darrell Hammond and Eric Clapton in the same film, folks. "},{"Title":"THE PLOT NEEDS WORK BUT THE MUSIC IS AWESOME!","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was expecting a sequel just as good as the original! I was almost right, but the plot really did need work! Despite that, THE FILM WAS VERY GOOD...(it was saved by the music and an awesome soundtrack!) I gave it 6.3/10! Dan Aykroyd is very good as Elwood, believe me! The guest stars really showed their stuff...BUT WHO THE HELL IS JONNY LANG? For the original, 10/10! Despite the plot, this was one of the best sequels ever made (MAYBE) "},{"Title":"If you liked the first one - don't watch this one.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw the original Blues Brothers for the first time many years ago and still watch it regularly. It was a brilliant film, but Blues Brothers 2000 is an insult to it. It takes all the good things out of the original and does them again far too much. It takes the mission from God idea and turns it into a mockery. While some things in the original were outrageous but COULD have happened, BB2000 puts a miracle in every scene including flying people and underwater driving. I found this movie so insulting to the original that I don't enjoy watching it as much as I used to anymore.Do yourself a favour and stay away from this film. Go get the original instead. "},{"Title":"I liked it half and half","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The plot and the acting both were not good, but it was worth it to see how everybody aged after eighteen years.  If I were to recommend something about it, it would the music. The beginning song and the battle of the bands at the end were very good . "},{"Title":" Good; but not as great as the original.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  7/10  (original 10/10) Enjoyable filmFirst the bad.  I am sorry but the ending sucked. No hilarious scene in an elevator while thousands of soldiers police etc. descend on you; no flying nazi's (Flying Nazis! Flying Nazis!!!! no Blues brothers movie can be complete without fliying cars with nazi's inside of them while March of the Valkyries Plays in the background) No gianT car chase No Nothing!!! What happened to the insanity???The good The Russian mafia (we will drink Vodka drome their skulls; I swear it !  Classic!!) THe Music. EVEN BETTER music than in the original (Particularly Ghost Riders) And the Kid was great!!So there you have it 7/10 "},{"Title":"Everything Was Bad - Including the Music","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If John Belushi were alive today ... well, he'd probably be in as low a career point as his Saturday Night Live crony, Dan Ackroyd and would most likely be co-starring with him in this pititful retread of their 1980 hit. As for the musical interludes that should have saved this monstrosity, all I can say is they are almost as lackluster as the rest of the movie, especially the celebrity pile-up (not unlike the knee-slapping scene involving fifty police cars mid-way through the film) wherin all the blues superstars looked like they wanted to get the hell out of there. And the boredom of seeing Aretha Franklin singing Respect for the umpteenth time is off-set only by the shock of seeing how terribly this once-attractive woman has aged. This isn't the worst movie ever made - but, damn, it's close! "},{"Title":"What a disillusion!","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If Blues Brothers is in my top ten, this sequel in in my last ten!!! I found the screenplay terrible, trying to remind the scenes of the original movie... resulting in a complete defeat!!! Demential humor must be intelligent too. This seems to be a commercial operation only (like highlander 2!)... just one thing I cannot comment the last 30 min... because I fell asleep!my rate 3/10  "},{"Title":"The blues might be back, but the humour and plot aren't!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Blues Brothers, original version, was an unsurpassed cult classic.  It made the quantum leap from the screen to peoples' everyday lives - you could safely go to any party and at least one person would know every line of dialogue by heart.  I am one of such people, and I have subjected my friends, on every possible occasion, to hours of unmitigated Blues trivia.Sadly, like almost every other sequel, the Blues Brothers 2000 falls by the wayside.  For a start, what Blues Brothers movie could be complete without John Belushi?  It's like trying to start a car without an engine.  Although John Goodman does an admirable job, and although he doesn't play the part of Elwood, the devotee can sense a vacuum throughout the whole film, as if to say, This isn't right - something is missing.  One also asks the question, what would John Belushi make of this?To be fair, the first Blues Brothers didn't have much in terms of plot.  It did not have important subtextual significance, nor was it rich in character development.  What it did have though, and what made it so popular, was its combination of genuine humour, wonderful music and ground-breaking car chases.  When it was made, it was one of the most expensive films produced, and it cemented Dan Ackroyd's career.  Blues Brothers 2000 though, will appeal only to the most diehard Blues fans.The movie's chase plot is simplistic and almost identical to its predecessor, only more idiotic in parts.  The comedy is not as sharp nor as abundant as in the original movie.  The one main redeeming feature about the Blues Brothers 2000 though - the one thing that saved it from being a sheer failure - was the music.Never before in a feature film have I witnessed a more impressive, talented and prominent group of musicians.  From Aretha Franklin to B. B. King; James Brown to Dr John, and not to mention the sensational (albeit ageing) Blues Brothers Band. This film is a wonderful celebration of song, and only the most stubborn, unspirited human being could fail to enjoy the soundtrack. This is blues at its best, with dashes of many other forms of music. Indeed, it is the music that holds The Blues Brothers together.Fans of the original film may feel cheated and upset, and I know a good many people who have refused to see the Blues Brothers 2000 on ethical grounds - It can't be as good as the original, they say, so I want to keep my Blues Brothers faith pure.  To these people I would give the following advice - see the film for the music, dancing and car chases, and keep your finger ready on the fast forward button for the sections in between. "},{"Title":"Just buy the soundtrack","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The original Blues Brothers is one of my favorite movies, so although I didn't expect BB2000 to be as good, there is no way I expected to be so bad. The beginning was decent, and the new characters were for the most part acceptable, but the further into the movie you go, the worse it gets, until finally you get into flying characters and voodoo witches, neither of which (in my opinion) belongs in a Blues Brothers movie. However, the music is excellent. So instead of renting or buying the movie, opt for the soundtrack. "}{"Title":"This movie had great music but a lame story","Date":"21 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just watched the original Blues Brothers for the first time recently.  I loved the movie and at least hoped the music in the 2nd one would be as good.  They music was good but the movie completely lost its grip on reality at the end.  Only watch this one for the music.  Not much laughs here.Richard "},{"Title":"If you like Blues, watch it","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I agree that the plot is pretty weak, but there is several MILLION dollars  worth of musical talent in this movie. And some decent tunes! "},{"Title":"Good music, but...","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Blues Brothers 2000. A blues musician who has done his time in jail creates  a major band which the police, white supremists and the Russian mafia are  constantly after. A most dreadful plot but excellent musicians who perform  admirably several times. ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"An unfufilling experience...","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Blues Brothers was a film that worked. It had action, raw humour, awesome music, and enough wit (and cigarettes) to lst you a life time.However, Blues Brothers 2000 is a different story altogether. Dan Akyroyd is without doubt, an extremley talented man, but I'm sorry, he cannot make this film work without the late, great John Belushi. John Goodman attempts to help keep this film afloat with his quirks and bad singing. He fails miserably. J. Evan Bonifant does look cute in his Blues Brothers outfit, and is mildly amusing to watch, but his acting is unnatural, and all he does is make this movie sink lower than it already had.Also, everyone's acting is almost wooden, lacking the spirit and sense of fun they showed in the first movie 18 years ago. The songs, although catchy, still lack that special something. Oh, and yes, the car crashes. Well, there isn't that much I can really say except that I think they tried too hard with them, and all they ended up with was a completley unfunny disaster.Overall, I found this movie very painful to watch, and I honestly think that either the sequel should have been made before we lost the wonderful, charismatic John Belushi, or it never should have been made at all. Rating 2/10  "},{"Title":"Not worth the price of video rental.","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you loved the original please skip this one.  Very thin on plat and seems to be devoted to giving several has been music stars an additional 3 minutes of fame.  The kid has better (and funnier) lines than John Goodman.  "},{"Title":"Tragic waste of money and musical talent","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you're tempted to watch this movie (like me, you might have loved the  original) then rent a video and keep your finger poised over the fast forward button. Or just give up - the lazy plot is so intrusive you're probably better off leaving it on the shelf. "},{"Title":"Any excuse for a bit of Blues!","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dear John Landis,I have just watched Blues Brothers 2000.  I am a fan of the original movie and didn't expect much from the sequel (no offence).It's good that you made no effort to change the plot from the first one and just rehashed the first movie.  Also I was amused by the way that one of the highlights of the film was a hugh car crash with several minutes of cars flying over cars flying over cars etc (it's good to see film-making has come so far since Smokie and the Bandit!).In fairness to you, you managed to get a lot of good artists together and a lot of good songs.  So here's my suggestion for the furture - whenever Dan Akroyd wants his next career boost and asks to do a BB3 - why not just record a pile of good songs and release a CD instead?That way I won't need to sit through another poorly plotted, overdone, messy copy of a much better film.What a mess! Hang your head in shame (but tap your feet to the beat!)yours sincerely,Bob the Moo "},{"Title":"bad!","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the worst sequel I've ever seen.  It is in the sameleague as 'Lost World'.  Instead of dinosaurs wrapped in anidiot plot, BB2000 gives you fantastic movie wrapped in aneven more idiot plot.I loved the first movie, but this one was so painful to watchthat I had to kill it 1/2 through the movie.  At ever scene Iwas surprised to find out the movie could get worse. Iexpect to fast-forward through it to get just the musicnumbers. "},{"Title":"Utterly horrendous.","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bad acting, annoying writing, and a mediocre story line trample on the memory of a great movie. I can't believe there wasn't a class-action suit to compensate the dozens of people like me who threw away $6 to see this sequel that clearly exists only to squeeze the last drop of cash from a classic film's legacy.That said, Goodman does an admirable job with limited resources here. His counterpart, clearly in need of work after plans for 'My Girl 3' collapsed, is far less impressive. The finished product here is a sanitized version of the original, without the coolness, edginess, humor, and much of the cultural flavor that made the original so lovable. "},{"Title":"Great music very well presented...","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Great music! A chance for everyone to see and hear some of the R&B icons of a generation. Silliness of the plot  is  overshadowed by the quality of the musical performances of Ackroyd, Gooden, and Morton (they can actually perform!). Don't look for great acting, just go with the flow and enjoy! A must see/hear for all R&B, Blues, and Soul affectionados everywhere!  "}{"Title":"Missing Something Very Important","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love the 1980 film The Blues Brothers.  In fact, it may be my favorite movie of all time.  I like it for three main reasons, descending 1. The fantasic, fanciful car chases.  2. The great music (I have a copy of the soundtrack).  3.  The great deadpan acting of both Aykroyd and Belushi. Now, if the new movie didn't have half of 3 and a not really good 2, I could forgive them.  But what the heck happened to 1?  I sat through the entire movie thinking Okay, it's really bad now, but I have the great ending chase to look forward to.  It was one of the worst disappointments ever when Elwood and that stupid kid just drove off and the credits roll.  What goes on? The chases that were in it were short and (in the case of massive multi-cop car crash scene that takes forever) dumb.  A total falure on everyone and everything's part. "},{"Title":"Blues baby !","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I think the movie, as a light comedy with good blues music and performers, should be watched, respected and enjoyed for the MUSIC AND PERFORMANCE itself, and not (like someone said before me) because of the (pretty good though) car chases, car spinning, and to gain some cheap fun out of it! It's the blues baby that counts ;)! Evenmore I personally found car chases in the Blues brothers 1 pretty boring stuff, but i loved the movie, even more, for the performance and music. So I personally liked the movie very much, but i gave it a 10 (not that good though ;) to increase the unworthy weak score of 4 and something.R.E.S.P.E.C.T. dudes for the movie! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some say; almost could have been pretty good.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Good music & cameos. The problem here was that the story was  a little thin. Good ideas! What happened?!! Having Elwood have to take in a kid under his wing was good... didn't do enough with it. We should have at least seen the kid FIND a harmonica & steal it from Elwood. Then it would have been funny to hear him start playing out of the blue; like he'd been practising. Lot's of little things like that. Again; great ideas, just not done right. With a little more time and thought, this could have been a 7 instead of a 4 rating on here.Still love the band and the movies.  "},{"Title":"not as bad as you'd think","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am ashamed to say I liked this movie, though I feel better after seeing other reviews here. Well, it's not the original-nothing is, and no-one can replace Belushi. (I kept thinking of that joke while watching this, the one that goes 'what's blue and sings alone?Dan Ackroyd') Thank GOD they used John Goodman instead of Belushi's brother. I didn't like the scene where they all turned into zombies, that was embarrassing--and what the heck did it have to do with the plot? SPeaking of the plot, it was pretty much non-existent, mainly an excuse to rehash scenes from the original. But as for the good stuff...Ackroyd did as good of a job as he could. He obviously took off weight for the role, though he is far from the slim, fast-dancing, sexy Elwood he used to be. His dancing has slowed down, but is still solid. He's actually still pretty charming in parts. The kid didn't annoy me anywhere as near as much as I thought he would (mostly because he didn't have many lines) and could really dance, though I winced when he sang. THe scene I replayed over and over, that I will probably buy the movie just to own, was when they did Ghost Riders in the Sky and there are these killer visuals of storm clouds and then the actual ghost riders themselves--I practically levitated, that part looked so damn cool. Of course, the best thing by far was the soundtrack. John the Revelator gave me goosebumps. Lovelight made me want to get up and dance. I even loved the corny Lookin for a Fox. I went out and bought the soundtrack almost immediately, though I couldn't meet the clerk at Tower Record's eye when I bought it, I was so embarrassed. I love listening to that tape! Worth seeing just for the music-fast forward through everything else if you have to, and stick around after the credits for a treat. "},{"Title":"Blues Brothers 2000","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Music is still solid, but a tangible script is missing in this sequel to the 1980 comedy classic that starred Aykroyd (back again) the late John Belushi. Goodman steps in here and fills the shoes as best as he can.  "},{"Title":"Forget The Story...Enjoy The Music","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I recently watched this again on cable and was surprised to find that I liked it a little more than when I first saw it in theatres.  I still consider it a disappointment compared to the original for many reasons. The story tries to copy scenes from the first movie and put a different spin on them, but most of these fall flat  (especially the huge car pile-ups...they  fit in the original, but seem way too perfunctory here)....the tone of the movie is too bright and glitzy, compared to the rough, blue-collar look of the original...and last but certainly not least, this film sorely misses the reckless spirit of John Belushi.  Belushi was a loose cannon, raffish and unpredictable...he gave the movie its soul and Ackroyd was best playing sidekick to him.All of that said, this movie is still worth seeing for some incredible music...and on video, you can speed past the story bits and get to the goodies.  There are several show-stopping numbers here and though blues purists will certainly carp (like they did in the first one), it's all spirited and fun.  So while I'll never watch this as often as the original, I'm glad I have it in my library.   "},{"Title":"Who's that writin'?","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The paper-thin plot of this movie is much more amusing -- or perhaps much closer to being amusing would be more accurate -- if you saw the original (also a must-have), but the plot is NOT the point. I was born in New Orleans in the first half of this century, and I have watched sadly as the music I came to know and love as a child has quietly died (pace, Don McLean).From Taj Mahal's incredibly earthy, a cappella rendition of John the Revelator (later given a full-chorus reprise in what, for me, was the zenith of the movie) to the outrageously over-the-top closing battle of the bands encore, the music IS the Mississippi, from new Orleans thru Memphis to St. Louis and thence to Chicago (culturally, even if not geographically, a child of The Father of Waters).  Whenever I feel a twinge of nostalgia, I no longer have to drive down to Memphis; I just drop in this DVD -- and smile.It's obvious to me that the cast of this movie was on a mission from God to leave a legacy to those who come after and have never known the real thing. Thanks, guys, ya done good!  "},{"Title":"SAVE A DOLLAR - BUY A CANDY BAR","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is not worth the price of a dollar rental. It is the main reason why I so strongly dislike sequels (with a few exceptions -  The Empire Strikes Back, Godfather Part II, Superman II, just to name a few.)When I see a sequel, I want to see a new story. I do not want to see the same thing being acted out with different actors (lets replace the great John Belushi with John Goodman.) And unfortunately, I feel the same thing is going to happen with the new Austin Powers movie. And I loved the first Austin Powers as much as I loved the original Blues Brothers.To sum it up, The Blues Brothers 2000 = The Blues Brothers  1978. Next time, try to write an original story instead of re-hashing on old success. It does not work.  Grade F  "},{"Title":"Very much enjoyed this movie!","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Contrary to popular opinion, I enjoyed the obvious rewrite from the original 'Blues Brothers'.  It was a fun way to relive the 'Blues Brothers' experience - 18 years later.  There are so many of the newer (and older) generation who never saw the original, much less understand the influence that the musical artists involved in the music of the 'Blues Brothers', had on the music of today.  I recently watched 'Blues Brothers 2000' with some young people who didn't have a clue, and seeing things through their fresh eyes, made this movie very exciting.  Immediately after, they were on the Internet looking up various musical artists from the movie so that they could get to know the music that they now loved, but had missed out on.  I say, Good job Dan! and that is all that needs to be said. "},{"Title":"I saw this before the original...what a mistake!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I consider this movie somewhat of a celebration or a tribute. I can not truly classify this as a movie. It pretty much retold the original story of the Blues Brothers and made its tributes towards John Belushi and some of the other late actors of the original. I do admit, this was a shocker. It was like having a funeral being portrayed onscreen with a couple of songs to add to it. The car chase scenes were missing something, I knew they were. In fact I thought the only part I thought was good was the songs. I actually thought that I was going to go in there and expect a fairly serious comedy. I obviously didn't know the Blues Brothers! So after a year or so, I was given the opportunity to see the original and after I did, I loved it! I thought that it was a classic and I was living and breathing the utter unrealisticness of it! It was really extraordinary! After seeing the original, everything fell into place about this one. This one is nothing more than a tribute to all of those poor late cast members like Belushi and John Candy. Certainly not the best movie in the world, but watch it if you're a fan of the original and you want to watch it die... "}{"Title":"Great Music, fun movie you can watch, listen or both.","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mighty Mack, Buster, Cab and Elwood have good chemistry.  Musical talent throughout was A++.  Battle of bands brought together an eclectic group of musical greats.  Would have loved hours more of it.  "},{"Title":"a waste of time and a real sleeper","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is one of those movies where you have to fast forward get through it ALIVE!!! if u are so unlucky that you find yourself in a movie theatre i suggest you leave ASAP!!! or you will tear your heart out before you reach the end of this movie. the entire film is about a sad guy that moves around the country playing crappy music while the cops are chasing him. His music is bad, but his humor is worse. The film has absolutely nothing to offer than sheer frustration. Keep away from it!!!!Famous last thoughts if this movie was the last movie that existed on earth I suggest you try to move to mars or something and pray you find something better to do there than watching this movie.  "},{"Title":"Plenty of potential, but not much story.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was great to see what happened to the old crew after they were arrested in the original, but unfortunately the entire storyline is pretty much the same this time around.Example In the original, Jake and Elwood go and find their old band buddies and play some gigs. In 2000, Elwood and Mack go and find Elwood's old band buddies and play some gigs...hmmm.It was terrific that they managed to get together most of the original cast minus John Belushi, John Candy, and Cab Callaway for obvious reasons, and it's even more incredible who else they got. The addition of Eric Clapton, BB King, Bo Didley, Johnny Lange, Paul Shaffer, Blues Traveler, and MANY MANY other big names gives the movie more life than it would have otherwise.The main difference between the original and this one is that Elwood is taking care of an orphan for The Penguin the nun. He adds to the story just a little bit, giving them a good reason to be chased by the police.And there are still monster car chases and car crashes. "},{"Title":"What else do you expect from a Blues Brothers movie?","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In many ways, a cheesy movie.  But fun, and with fabulous music.Rating  worth seeing often, for the music and the corny humour.  "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As a piece of art, the film might suck, but who cares? Plenty of the greatest names of occidental modern music didn't, why should I? Not to mention that Elwood's speech about the mission of the band is one of the best I ever saw on a movie. Gonna make a t-shirt of it. P.S. I dress and act exactly like Elwood in real life, so remember this is a fan's opinion... ) "},{"Title":"How this could have been a great film","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nowhere near as good as the original but not all that bad.  The comedy bits fall flat but the music is great.What is disappointing though is that the film could very easily have been much better if the writers had decided to just rehash the first film.  Sure it would be the complete opposite of being original but it stil would have been pretty entertaining.  Instead of getting the band back together for no apparent reason, the orphanage could have been in need of financial aide again.  One of the Blues Brothers could have had a homocidal ex-fiancee after him, etc.  It would have made for a much better film and (seemingly, at least) much easier to write. "},{"Title":"movie","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like R&B music you certainly will enjoy this film despite the fact it's a bad copy of the original.Singers and players shown here are excellent.I found the plot full of nonsense. Why a russian mafia? Why so many scenes of cars being smashed up ? Until when are we,viewers,forced to watch car chasings ?  Certainly this movie can't be compared to the first Blues Brothers film which I consider one of the finest musicals I have ever seen.Music is the only thing which makes this film worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"It's a great movie.","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although this movie had GREAT music; it lacked a certain plot. This movie in my opinion was trying to go for the music, not he plot, while in the first one, it had a plot but the music wasn't as good as the second one. Overall I did indeed like this movie! "},{"Title":"What A Letdown!","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't know where to start with this complete cow-pat of a movie! The plot at the beginning is credible enough, Elwood sets about reforming the band with some new additions. When they meet Queen Muset that is when things really go wrong! I;d had an inkling when those skully horses lept out of the storm cloud! Many actors from 'The Blues Brothers' (1980) made a welcome re-appearance, but even they couldn't save this from this film being a flaw! The only redeeming feature is the music but there is not enough of it to constitute watching. If you haven't seen the first one, by all means watch this but given half a chance watch the first one first, give this film a miss. Nia Peeples was the only reason I watched this (principally) But her usual classy acting was let down by her co-stars (the noticeably and unusual wooden Dan Aykroyd) plus her great figure was mostly hidden by a police uniform! Give this film a miss if you like the first and if you haven't seen the first film...give this one a miss anyway! "},{"Title":"It all about the music, stupid","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The people who have written here to complain about this show's plot obviously don't understand what the Blue's Brothers movies are about. They are in good company though. When the second Blue's Brothers came out the Spice Girl's movie was also in theaters. I was amazed to see how many reviewers panned the Blue's Brothers and gave half-decent reviews to the Spice Girl's dreadful exercise in film making. The Blue's Brothers is all about the Blues and I feel sad for those reviewers who can't appreciate the quality of the music and musicians showcased in this excellent and entertaining movie. There are so many goose-bump inspiring vocal and instrumental performances by some of North America's most legendary musicians. The dancing is good too. The car crash is fun. There are some great lines. I think there is a serious side to this movie though and it is summed up neatly in Elwood's inspirational speech when he reminds his rebellious band members what society will be left with if real musicians give up making music. I think that if you read a review by someone complaining about the plot you should quit reading right away because that person, who probably never ventures beyond the top 10 in his musical tastes, obviously missed the whole point of this movie. "}{"Title":"The Blues Brothers Band is Back, and Badder Than Before!","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Today, after eighteen long years, Elwood Blues has finally paid his debt to society and was being released from prison. After being escorted outside, he stood beside the road, eagerly awaiting his brother Jake to pick him up. Several hours go by and Jake had not arrived. Elwood waited until the next morning, when the warden finally came out and told him the awful news Jake had passed away. Elwood received a ride home from Matara, a colleague of his old bandmember Willie. Once back in town, Elwood went to Malvern Gasperon's used car lot and set his sites on a classic police cruiser, similar to the one he had in the last adventure. But it was gonna cost $500, which he didn't have. Next, Elwood visits Mother Mary Stigmata at the new orphanage, since the old one had long since been demolished. Right away, Elwood learns that his old buddy Curtis had died. He also learns that Curtis had an illegitimate son. That's also when Elwood meets a young, sarcastic orphan named Buster. Mother Mary wanted Elwood to spend some time with the youngster--whether he wanted to or not.Elwood attempted to ditch the kid, though unsuccessfully, and seek out Curtis' son. He found him at the police station. He was Commander Cabel Cab Chamberlain. Elwood introduced himself, then told his sort-of brother that he was thinking of putting the band back together and asked if he'd like to join. He also asks to borrow $500 for a car. But Cab had the goods on Elwood and his late brother Jake. He refused, and personally kicked him out of the office. Outside, Buster picked his pocket and gave the wallet to Elwood, which ironically contained $500. So, Elwood purchased the police cruiser then he and Buster go for a very slow cruise. They stop off at Willie's strip club to try and convince Willie rejoin the band. Willie was hesitant, because the Russian mafia was watching him. But, Elwood and the bartender, Mack McTeer, bound and gag two Russian mobsters and leave them in the alley. This did not sit well with their leader, who demanded vengeance against Elwood and Willie; Elwood gives Mack an opportunity to perform at the club and sees he has talent. Just then, the Russians arrive and shoot up the club, then torch it. Luckily all the strippers, patrons, Matara, Elwood, Mack, Willie and Buster escape in time. Mack and Willie join the band. Next, Elwood tracks down the other members of the band Matt Guitar Murphy, Donald Duck Dunne, Tom Bones Malone, Murph, Mr. Fabulous, and Blue Lou Marini and, in his own crude and crass way, convinces them to rejoin. Elwood even had Mack and Buster fitted with their own Blues suits. Now, all they needed was a gig. Unbeknownst to them, the Illinois state police and the Russian mafia were after them.Maury Sline, their old booking agent, managed to book them a gig at a county fair in Kentucky, and, an opportunity to play at Queen Mousette's Battle of the Bands at her club in Louisiana. So, Elwood, Mack and Buster in the new Bluesmobile, and the band in tow, hit the road. Always managing to stay one step ahead of a furious Cab and the entire Illinois police force. They play at the fair in Kentucky, but learned they wanted a bluegrass band, and not a blues band. So they played bluegrass, blues style. All the while Cab and the cops watched the stage, but monster trucks and a storm proved the perfect distraction; the Blues brothers and the band manage to elude the cops at a local tent revival, with the Reverend Cleophus James. When Cab arrived, something extraordinary happened. It was a miracle, some say. He had a revelation. His destiny became clear. He donned a nifty Blues outfit and joined the band. But the rest of the police force weren't buying it, so they chased the Blues Brothers band all the way to Louisiana where they competed in Queen Mousette's Battle of the Bands--and lost to the Louisiana Gator Boys. Well before long, Elwood and the gang found themselves surrounded by every cop in a thousand mile radius, as well as the Russian mafia. And worst of all, Mother Mary Stigmata! There was nothing left to do but run. Buster had a plan. While Mack and Cab created a diversion on stage, Elwood and Buster made a run for it in the Bluesmobile followed by a very long cavalcade of police cars.Blues Brothers 2000--what can I say? It was pretty good. It started off very properly with a proper dedication to John Belushi, Cab Calloway and John Candy. Dan Aykroyd returns as Elwood Blues, everyone's favorite crafty Blues con. John Goodman is on board as Mighty Mack McTeer. Joe Morton is Cab. J. Evan Bonifant is Buster. Frank Oz returns as the warden. And the late Kathleen Freeman returns as Mary Stigmata. Familiar faces Aretha Franklin and James Brown are here too. Belushi's absence from this film is definitely noticeable, but I think it's good they made Elwood a more central character, since in the original it was obvious Jake was the central character. They gave Elwood a chance to build. But personally, this wasn't much of a sequel, but rather a rehash of the first film. But if you liked the first film and would like to see a jazzy update, then Blues Brothers 2000 is for you. I recommend it. Like they say, the Lord works in mysterious ways. "},{"Title":"Really not as bad as you might expect.","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" stars Dan Aykroyd, John Goodman, Joe Morton, J. Evan Benifont, The Blues Brothers Band (Steve Cropper, Donald Dunn, Murphy Dunne, Matt Murphy, Alan Rubin, Tom Malone.) Nia Peeples, Paul Shaffer, Kathleen Freeman, Jeff Morris, Steve Lawerence, Erykah Badyu, Darrell Hammond, B.B. King, Isaac Hayes, Aretha Franklin, James Brown, Lou Rawls and Frank Oz.Plot 18 years after the first film, Elwood Blues (Aykroyd) is released from prison and waits for a ride from his brother Jake. He is told by the Warden (Oz) that Jake has died. Elwood then finds out that his father figure Curtis (In the first film was played by Cab Calloway) is deceased, but he has a son, which is sort of like his set-brother. Elwood also gets stuck with an orphan Buster and car chases and musical numbers ensue from there.Review This really isn't that bad a film. The first hour of it is not badly written and has some amusing parts, but the second hour is an overblown mess that makes no sense. I think the music is quite good in this film...maybe even as good as the firsts. The problem is that there is some weird supernatural witch that turns the boys into zombies and that was just plain stupid, and the ending is pretty obvious, but fun. John Goodman is no John Belushi, but he gives it his all and does a heck of a nice try. It's also nice that The entire Blues Brothers Band, Aretha Franklin, James Brown, Kathleen Freeman, Steve Lawerence, Jeff Morris and Frank Oz reprise their back-up roles.My rating 6/10. 118 mins. (without credits) Rated PG-13 for Language. "},{"Title":"Meant To Laugh? Then, I Missed Something.","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" All right,in 1998 I went on a movie going mission. I wanted to see if I could actually watch 30 movies at the movies in the span of a year. I did,but looking back,I wish I had not chosen this absurd & just plain wrong sequel to the original Blues Brothers.I'll say this much for it,the music was good,but the fun isn't there. The reason it's not fun is because it's no longer the 1970's (early '80). The defiant humor of the original was perfect for that time and that's where it belongs.John Belushi is the only one (not even his brother) that should be the partner to Dan Akroyd in this case. The sequel is an insult to him. Had he lived,he would have looked back on the original with pride and i seriously doubt he'd have allowed this re-hash.It's mostly deja-vu here ladies & gentlemen. Involving a little kid didn't sit well with me either. If I wasn't so into music,I'd rate it lower. (END) "},{"Title":"Not better than the first, but almost as good as the original mission from god","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The only thing the second film lacks is John Belushi as Jolliet Jake and just as much if not more places that the Blues Brothers explore, and John Candy and Cab Calloway. Dan Akroyd is great as Elwood Blues, Joe Morton has a great singing voice and was right for the part of Cab Chamberlain, J Evan Bonifant is great with the Harmonica and also belongs in the band, and Goodman may not have the best singing voice but he can still sing pretty good. More new artists are seen in the film and the rest of The Blues Brothers band are back and ready to rock the house once again. The Bluesmobile is cooler in the second movie. One thing I would like to have seen was more gigs before the big performance and a few more car chases. If you don't have this movie, go out a buy this movie and I think you'll watch it as many times as the original. Don't believe the doubters, either try to think of my comments as the truth or try seeing this film for yourself and decide what you think about. "},{"Title":"A Sequel Lacking Some Major Elements.","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Blues Brothers is the type of movie that is impossible to duplicate and very hard to imitate, which lead me to wonder, why are they even trying this in the first place.First of all the question of replacing John Belushi was done, somewhat passably, by the addition of John Goodman. Without taking anything away from John Goodman, Belushi's presence is certainly noticed and missed. Goodman does a fair job, but any redeeming features of his performance in the wake of the still obvious void of Belishi's, is overshadowed by the addition of not only on additional main character, but two. It's almost like they went.... **** it, lets add another blues brother when they knew the plot wasn't working. This really bothered me as I felt it trivialized the movie and cheapened the whole BB mythos altogether and seriously weaken the credibility of the movie.The storyline tries in many ways to copy the original storyline, with little success. It's almost like using the same road map, but replacing the destination with different ones. Some of the charm of the original for this reason is very much lost, but there are still some elements of the original movie present in terms of feel. The concessions made in terms of the addition of characters, as well as the lack-luster plot does more to weaken the appeal of the original movie that it does to even, in some way, strengthen the mythos.The only redeeming feature, of this otherwise lack luster piece is the music and thank gawd for that one. Appearances by Erykah Badu, B.B. King, Eric Clapton, Aretha Franklin, Jeff Baxter, Isaac Hayes, James Brown, Blues Traveler Bo Diddley, Stevie Winwood and many others, along with great musical interludes pushes up the overall appeal of this movie.However at the end of the day this is not a concert, its movie and any redeeming musical performances, even a really great musical line-up and interlude does not take away from a weak story based only on a gimmick with no substance to speak of. "},{"Title":"Defiently nowhere close to the orignal, but not bad for what it is.","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'll admit, I saw this movie before I saw the original and even after seeing the first BB movie. I still love BB200O just the same even though the the curse of the Satuday Live movies caught up to this one. Eh.Plot After getting out of jail and finding out that his brother died (glad to see Aykrod didn't ignore this fact) Elwood Blues once again finds himself in the world with no direction. Visiting the ophanage he and Jake saved in the last film, he is given a kid Buster (J. Evan Bonifant), to watch over for the day to keep him out of trouble. Of course if you saw the original that doesn't last long. Pretty soon he gains new partners Big Mack (John Goodman, in my opinion, making a great replacement to Jake.) and later Cab (Joe Morton) a police chief who was chasing him until the calling of the blood took over, and once again getting the band back together on yet another mission from God. Along with the Chicgo Police Department on his tale for a misunderstood kidnapping, as well as the mob and white power terroists.The problem with this film is that the music overshadows the story causing it to take a back seat and never really being given a chance to developed whereas the first movie blended both seemlessly. Granted  BB2000 never takes itself seriously as the first one did (even moreso with puppetry and special effects) and the music is really jamming here with musical talent new and old (gotta love the concert scene). But in the end the story just doesn't stack up to the original ending on something of a cliffhanger (guess there was a third on planned). Still, its it own movie. As the the title implies, a Blues Brothers for a new generation. If you don't compare it to its predecessor you MIGHT just enjoy it. Like I said I saw this before the first one and had no problems with it.Overall, a not so great story but still a pretty cool film. Worth a watch if you have nothing better to do.     "},{"Title":"If you liked the first one, watch this one...","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK, let's be honest.  The first one was a classic.  This one is not a classic.  It is just like people trying to compare Attack of the Clones to Star Wars A New Hope.  Of course the new movie isn't going to be as good as the classic!   Duh!   With this in mind, this movie is entertaining.  Losing Belushi is obviously huge.   While it takes awhile to get used to John Goodman, he does a good job.  They basically try to use three new people to take the place of Belushi.  The best part of the movie is the OUTSTANDING music.   The cameos are great as expected.   If you liked the first movie a lot, then definitely see this one, if only for the music, it will be worth your while.   7.5 Stars. "},{"Title":"This has no soul, man.","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The kid is annoying and there is a whole mass market feel to it. They took the first movie and copied it, sticking in little touches here and there. It feels like a cliffs notes version of the original without any of the edge. It's a name brand used to make money, something that would have disgusted John Belushi. What is worse is that this is not Aliens, Terminator 2, Evil Dead 2, or The Godfather 2; this is Conan the Destroyer, Return of the Living Dead 2, or Speed 2 Cruise Control. Having said these bad things, I will say the John Goodman is cool, Joe Morton fits in nicely, and James Brown still has it. The music is the highlight. Aretha Franklin, James Brown, and Etta James are the real stars of this movie, even if they are forced into the background. Just fast forward to the songs and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Jake Deserved Better and so did I...","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Let me start by saying I wanted it to be good.  The first installment, to me was absolutely amazing.  It had something truly special that made it stand apart from most movies.  It had a grit and an attitude, a foundation of cool.  This movie does not stand up the same way.  The shots and even the clothes were too sterile and clean.  Sometimes the easiest way to kill a sequel is to have too much of a budget.  That gives too many options and too much planning all the while losing site of the unique feel that made the other one such a classic.  To me it seemed like a TV movie compared to the original.  The only saving grace was the music.  I would have preferred a concert video of the so called Louisiana Gators 100 fold over this.  Jake Deserved Better and so did I...     "},{"Title":"Shame on you limesoda","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I found the previous reviewer's comments on John Goodman to be grossly unfair and prejudiced. John Goodman is a fantastic actor (look at his films for the Cohen Brothers). limesoda making fun of his weight and stating that he is ''uncool'' shows him for the little bigot that he is.That off my chest, this was a terrible addition to the story of the Blues. John Belushi would have turned in his grave. It rehashes every element from the original in an uninspiring and depressing manner. John Goodman saved the show from being a total waste of time. He clearly has a talant for singing, and I can see why Ackroyd and Landis would have wanted him. However, as mentioned, he's let down by a script that reeks of cash in.And John Goodman is cool. "}{"Title":"This film made me physically ill!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After I watched Blues Brothers 2000 I realized that almost 2 hours of my life had been totally wasted and that I would not get those hours back. For that I am bitter, so I am going to devote just a little more of my life to this film so I can spread the word and let everyone know just how incredibly poor it is. I would have resisted normally-as I stated, I have already lost enough time to this film-but I couldn't stand all of the people on here defending it in their user comments. True, a few people despised, but many were saying things like not that bad, blah blah. And that's fine-we're all well entitled to our opinion. But this movie OFFENDED ME, and I feel the need to warn others about the abomination that is called Blues Brothers 2000. True, this is probably just because I am forever a huge fan of the original, but let's examine what made the original so good great music, dry humor, a charming cast and the occasional twisted idea. With the exception of SOME good music, the new film is lacking in ALL of these departments. The writing is tired, the jokes are lame, and the gimmicks (i.e. adding a little boy and a black blues brother) are contrived. Watching BB2000 is like watching a train, a fuel tanker and a busload of little old amish ladies crash into a children's orphanage on Christmas, except worse. Blues Brothers fans, avoid this one at all costs. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've seen the original Blues Brothers movie and I love it, when I heard this was coming out I couldn't wait.  Thank God I didn't see it in the theater, I would have walked out.  I know these movies aren't supposed to be realistic but this movie was just corny.  They put a kid in the band, then they had the magic transformation of the trooper?  The music was as good as always, even if the kid sang, and I do appreciate that, but the draw of the first movie was the quasi-realism.  This movie was just an impossible romp. I give it 3 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"You guys had 18 years to think up a sequel. All you could think of was rehash?","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  REVIEW BLUES BROTHERS 2000 ** out of ****  BB2000 is pathetic. There is not ONE laugh in the entire thing. Maybe a chuckle at the part where Elwood visits Cab for the first time but that's about it. The movie thinks that just because we saw the original 18 years ago we'd forget all the humor and laugh at it again and think that it's completely original. John, you're cheating us. The only thing that saves it is the music and the acting. The performers were really top notch. But really, what was the point of the kid? For Elwood to be a hero to ex-con single fathers everywhere? Speaking of Elwood, Dan Aykroyd did not look like he was having that much fun in this. The first one you could tell he was having fun but here he just acts bored. There could have been a more original plot here. What about if there was a prequel and you had somebody young to play Elwood and somebody young to play Jake. Or since music is the only redeeming quality, why not just make a concert film? Good idea no? "},{"Title":"Belushi would role over in his grave if he saw this","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Blues Brothers 2000 is yet just another one of those sequels that shouldn't have been made. Writers John Landis and Dan Ankroyd, (who have had years to think of something original), basically give us the same thing all over again. And throughout the movie, it seems they keep apologising that John Belushi is not in the movie. They should really be sorry this movie was even made. "},{"Title":"When the original is good, why are you punishing it with a sequel?","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Truly one of the worst films of the year. Dan Aykroyd should NOT have done a sequel for the movie. The music and dance numbers are what save this badly written and badly directed film. The sets look like they've been set on a stage and they just look too fake. There's an unexplainable voodoo witch subplot in the film that, in no way, would be tied to the original. Despite cameos from Isaac Hayes, Eric Clapton, BB King, and James Brown among others, this film was not meant to exist. John Goodman, as talented an actor as he is, couldn't fill the void left by Belushi. Dan Aykroyd should be a little more careful in what he does for films. As said earlier, the music saves the movie. "},{"Title":"Total crap","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I like blues and jazz.  I like comedy.  I like the cast.  So why did I hate the movie? Probably because of my sky high expectations.  Goes to show me that I should NEVER EVER get my hopes up for sequels, especially John Landis sequels.  Oh yeah, the music in this movie, taped is fine, performed is utter crap. "},{"Title":"Very Good Sequel!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was by far one of the best ever sequels made! They have great music, hilarious performances and John Goodman really does a good job with Dan Aykroyd, they really to make a hilarious team! The movie may be a bit fast and all over the place, but who cares1 IT'S A GOOD SEQUEL! The album is sensational! GREAT JOB GUYS! "},{"Title":"The greatest sequel of all-time!!!","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this movie. It is, like the original,a wonderful blend of music, comedy, car chases, and criminal escapades. Before I saw this it I was a little worried that director John Landis and his co-writer Dan Aykroyd were going to make an abominable disgrace, but I was worrying for nothing because they ended up making one heck of good sequel.It is about Elwood Blues trying to put his life back together after he finaly gets out of prison. He immediatly learns about his brother Jake's death ( Elwood's subtle reaction is touching). He also learns that Curtis, the man who was like a father to him has also died. Elwood obviously needs a reason to continue living, so he reunites his old blues band and recruits some new singers.At first the movie suggests that Elwood got the band back together just so he would have a job. But later we learn, in a priceless pep-talk he gives the band, that he has a bigger and deeper reason for getting the band back together. John Goodman. Joe Morton, and J. Evan Bonifit do a great job as the new Blues Brothers. And the movie brings back a lot of the original characters, which is great.Aside from the spectacular soundtrack, it of course has some monster car chases and crashes.Car crashes have always been John Landis' specialty. He tops himself in this movie,and he tops himself BIG. John Landis also does a great job with the musical sequences, two in particular The hilarious county fair sequence, and the dazzling tent revival meeting. My faviorite scene is when Joe Morton turns into a blues brother at James Browns rivival. I also love when Elwood hooks the car up to remote control. Well, anyway, Blues Brothers 2000 stays true to the spirit of the original, and there isn't a movie out there with more energy than this one. It's got rhythm, it's got music, it's got car crashes. Who could ask for anything more? "},{"Title":"Trash!!!!","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Blues Brothers is probably about my third favorite movie of all time.  I was looking forward to seeing Blues Brothers 2000,  and thought John Goodman would almost fill the void left when Joliet Jake died. I went and saw the film on the second day it after release.  I walked out after an incident with Joe Morton and the tent roof of Reverend Cleofis James' revival.  I was saddened and angry that a truly great film like the Blues Brothers was cheaply rehashed using the same lines, gut wrenchingly bad dialog, tired old comic devices, wide market pandering, and characters that had no business being in a movie with the name Blues Brothers in it.  I hate this film with a passion.  Only the soundtrack is worthy. "},{"Title":"This movie blows","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Perhaps one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Absolutely terrible plot and characters.  You can tell it's going to suck just by the poster.  Why does Hollywood think that smartass kids and dogs will make a movie great. Blech!  I need some mylanta after this one.  "}{"Title":"My vote for worst sequel of all time...only a few (very few) songs make it watchable.","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is beyond bad.  It is in that rarified nether-region where you can't really believe that what you are watching is really happening.  I know, I know...it's just a movie, right?  WRONG!  The original Blues Brothers was an event, a symphony of chaos and destruction.  This movie is a slap in the face to anyone who liked the original.  You know you shouldn't make a sequel when most of your original cast looks like they have been embalmed.  The original had John Lee Hooker, this piece of trash has Jonny Lang?!  I'm sorry, but John Goodman, Joe Morton, and that little kid do not have a tenth of the talent that John Belushi and John Candy would have on their worst day.  I can't believe Ackroyd lost all that weight for this (although he does look very good).  Landis should have his film-makers license revoked.  What's next...a sequel to Animal House? "},{"Title":"Blues Brothers fans STAY AWAY.","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you, like me, are an enormous fan of the original Blues Brothers, then please take my warning and stay as far away from this as you possibly can.  This is one of the most painful movie viewings I have ever experienced.  Absolutely dreadful.  What could Dan Aykroyd possibly be thinking?  He and Landis both should be handed a hard slap for this one, and I'm sure they were.  I had more than my share of doubts when this was released in the theatres, and at the risk of being shunned by friends, I didn't attend it.  Then came the video release, which I managed to avoid for about 20 days, until finally, I couldn't stand it anymore.  So, going against all the poor reviews by fans and critics alike, not to mention my own feelings, I rented it.  The film starts promising as Elwood is released from the same prison Jake was 18 years ago.  From there, the band had me singing the blues, and I don't mean that in a good way.  The film's plot, if you can call it that, drags Elwood through a torturous 2 hours, in which time he becomes a mentor, a step-brother, a shaving cream covered baffoon,  and even a zombie (yes you heard me right, a zombie).  The supporting cast doesn't help either, even though new blues bro Joe Morton holds his own on the musical numbers, but who cares?  When you can't even stand to watch one of your favorite movie characters ever, what's the point?  The opening credits dedicate the film to the memory of Belushi, Candy, and Calloway, let's hope they weren't watching from Heaven. "},{"Title":"What a stinker!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I would have rated this one lower on the scale, but it wouldn't let me. IMDb needs to put in some negative numbers for movies such as this. When it first came out, I thought Alright! New Blues Brothers movie, the first one was great so this one must be even better. What a surprise. The first time I saw it, I didn't really analyze it so much, but now that I've seen it a few more times, I can't believe I watched this thing and liked it. Dan Akroyd tries in vain to come close to the vocal work of the original movie, but with little success. All the big stars are there too, Steve Cropper, Duck Dunn, Blue Lou, and so forth, as well as a pleasant appearance by some real blues greats, like B.B. King Eric Clapton, and Jimmie Vaughan, but even though they could have made this movie themselves and done better, they are stuck behind the shadow of a weak plot, a poor storyline, and some rather bad acting by Akroyd and co. A terrible attempt to try to refill the spot that John Belushi filled in the first movie, this is just so wrong. But that's just me. What works for some people may not work for others, so this is just my two cents worth. If you don't believe me, go rent it for yourselves and see for yourself, just don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie ever made.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are so many things wrong with this film, one cannot be sure quite where to begin. The lack of plot? The lack of enthusiasm from the actors? (Ackroyd looks as if he thinks he's in another movie)  The terrible musical sequences?  Don't even bother renting this dud. "},{"Title":"Utter crap","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was THE WORST MOVIE I've ever seen. There was no plot as far as I can remember. The music was really bad. There were only about two car chase scenes in this movie, both of which weren't funny. The original movie's car chases were hilarious in that they seemed ridiculous but still retained a sense of credibility - you know that they could've happened. One of the car chases in this movie involves a MASSIVE pile-up. First of all, it is highly unlikely there were this many cars probably within 100 miles of the area. Secondly, I was looking at my watch waiting for it to finish it lasted so long. I was also cringing at the wastage involved - they scrapped 50 cars in that one scene. Surely they could've spread the wastage out over more car chase scenes! Basically I think the movie is a vehicle for a whole lot of old Blue's singers to get on film and to get a last bit of attention before it is too late (Aretha Franklin, James Brown etc.) AVOID "},{"Title":"Scores new lows in movie-making","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  How bad is this movie? This sequel is flat out blasphemous, scoring a slot right next to Godfather 3 as worst and most unnecessary sequel ever. It's not just a lite 85 minute comedy thing either, it's a solid two hours of bad music and sequel jokes You guys again?. Of course there is no John Belushi this time, instead we get John Goodman who is usually good but Belushi himself couldn't help this movie. I just feel sorry for all those people who had to sit through this in the theatres. Then again, they probably should've known better. Also, there's a little kid who joins the band. The dance numbers are terrible and it's embarrassing to watch all those big names like James Brown and Eric Clapton participating in this. How could Dan Aykroyd do this to his good friend Belushi and desecrate the good name of The Blues Brothers? Total crap. Also, this movie has a weird Men In Black vibe to it, must be those cool sunglasses. "},{"Title":"Now, I really know what the blues is...","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Have you heard the news? Some dumb guy in Hollywood is producing a sequel to the 1964 Beatles film A Hard Day's Night. The title will be A Hard Day's Night II, or perhaps A Hard Day's Night 2000.  We will see the Fab Four having a hard day, trying to get to a studio television for a reunion concert.  They will have big trouble with mid fifties yuppes howling all the time while the guys try to get in their limo.  George, Paul and Ringo says it will be fine to make such a movie. But what about John? Who cares about Lennon!  Any middle age actor from Hollywood can fill his shoes! Say like DeNiro, Hoffman orMichael Douglas.  In the film, the Beatles will play good old sixties music, like Gerry & The Pacemakers or Dave Clark Five hits.  You think this is a bad idea? You're wrong! A stupid dumb guy from Hollywood already did it with the classic 1980 Blues Brothers movie.  So why not with the Beatles? After all, there are still millions of fans of the Beatles, as there was millions of fans of the Blues Brothers.  Almost 90 % of these suckers went to see Blues Brothers 2000 or rent it in video. There are good money to make! Quality? Originality? Respect for the dead guy? Who cares? I already told you there are solid money to make! Hey! Internet Movie Database! Can you tell me why there are no Zero in your voting scale? "},{"Title":"A good sequel","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Blues Brothers 2000 is a good sequel to the brilliant 1980 original. Okay, so the story is virtually the same, but that does not matter. The music is great, the car chase scenes are even more elaborate than the first and the jokes are just as funny. It was good to see the same characters from the original eighteen years later, being played by the same actors including the minor characters (bar owner, prison officer, etc). I have only one problem with this film. Why is it called Blues Brothers 2000 when it was released in 1998? I give this movie 8/10. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dan Aykroyd has done it again.  He's created another hit.  He's done more for the blues than anyone else that I know. Because of Him I love the blues. Dan Aykroyd is a great actor and writer he deserves an award. "},{"Title":"A new level of badness....","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If one film is a visible example of what true PAIN is..it is this film  Blues Brothers 2000 is quite possibly the worst film of all time, and is definitely the worst sequel of all time. Only three films have made me physically ill, The Last Boy Scout, Iron Eagle 2, and this is the third.  If you ever meet someone and find out they like this film, AVOID THEM!  Anyone that likes this film should be banished. "}{"Title":"bad!","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the worst sequel I've ever seen.  It is in the sameleague as 'Lost World'.  Instead of dinosaurs wrapped in anidiot plot, BB2000 gives you fantastic movie wrapped in aneven more idiot plot.I loved the first movie, but this one was so painful to watchthat I had to kill it 1/2 through the movie.  At ever scene Iwas surprised to find out the movie could get worse. Iexpect to fast-forward through it to get just the musicnumbers. "},{"Title":"What more could you ask from a movie about music.","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you like music, you have to love this. If you don't like music, don't watch. Music is what this movie was all about! If your looking for an in depth plot, look elsewhere.Blues was the theme but there were other genres covered. Ten lines is hard to write for this movie. The plot was shallow and the story lacking. But like I said, this was all about the music and nothing more.I loved the original but this topped it. The massive list of great musicians and the music which exuded from said musicians kept me moving the entire movie. It delivered what I expected and more.I even liked the addition of the kid. It was simply great! "},{"Title":"A HIGHLY recommended feel good movie","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The entire movie was superb. But, then why do so many people think it sucks? I'll tell you why. All people who saw this movie immediately compared it to the first one. And you can't do that, because although the movies were practically identical in plot, they were nothing alike. 2000 was like a RE-MAKE of the first movie, only aimed at a different audience. The problem was, the audience of the first movie saw it and was expecting it to be like a continuation of the original. That simply wasn't the case. The original movie was reflection of the late 70's, and all those who fell for the Blues Brothers when they were actually performing live absolutely loved the cult classic.Don't get me wrong, I LOVED the first movie, but it has that certain feel that you just don't get in the second movie.You could tell that 2000 was more or less going for the whole family film feel (thus the kid, a younger member of the cast with whom younger children could identify with). You know, kinda like Honey I Shrunk the Kids? My two younger siblings prefer the second movie to the first one, just because of the kid.Over all, when taking the movie for what it is, it's very good. The acting, writing, and especially the music are well worth it. If you haven't seen the first movie yet, rent them both at the same time, watch this one first (with the kids), then send the kids to bed and watch the original, but don't expect them to be anything alike.I also found it interesting that it took three whole people to make up for all of the aspects found in the late, great, John Belushi.Rating  A+ "},{"Title":"Word of advice","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you do not enjoy R+B music or mindless car chases, stay away...there's nothing for you to see here.  The musical numbers fit into the flow of the first film.  Here they pop up out of nowhere, and are far less entertaining than in the original. "},{"Title":"Not the best... but still good","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Alright, I've been reading reviews about this movie and people obviously don't like it. Fine, that's OK with me. My own father who loves the Blues Brothers couldn't even sit through it! I on the other hand watched the whole thing... then watched it again... and again... and again. OK, so the storyline is a little repeated, and the whole battle of the bands with the magic is a tad lame, but behind all that is some good music, and some laughs. And come on... the kid is cute! And John Goodman shows some awesome talent, and Dan Aykroyd... well, who can not love him?So I'm just saying that some people may enjoy this flick, and others may not... I certainly did. "},{"Title":"Shame thy made it!","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blue Brothers 2000 was a shame excuse of a film they should have left the original Blues Brothers in it lime light, and i was not too impressed to find out that they even tried to replace John Belushi with John Goodman and even worser than that they introduced a little boy into there band.The film plots around Elwood Blues (Dan Aykroyd) coming out of prison once again trying bring back the blues band after they split up after the original film but this time teams up with Mighty Mack McTeer (John Goodman)and a little boy from the orphanage Buster Blues (J. Evan Bonifant) and also Curtis's (original Blues Brothers) son Cab Chamberlain (Joe Morton)who is actually in the Police department. Gladily all the original cast of the blues band are the same.If you have not already seen the film but has seen the original Blues Brothers i would suggest not spoiling your image of the Blues Brothers with this sorry excuse of a film, but if you have seen this one then i suggest your prove that its crappier than the original and buy that and watch in your amazement. "},{"Title":"Don't think of it as a film ... more of a 2 hour music video.","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This isn't the 1978 'Blues Brothers' ... never will be. That film is a justifiable classic, and a showcase for a genre of music which many had forgotten in the disco late 70's.It was a very different world in 2000. Many of the musicians who were showcased in the original as almost forgotten relics now are credited as inspirations for many of the most popular artists today.On one half, it has reminders of the original, callbacks to old jokes, references to old scenes, but for the most part it is a celebration of the blues in all it's forms. It's almost a Who's Who of Blues and Soul. If thats what floats your boat, then the DVD is worth it's price purely for the 'ultimate' jam session at the end.Yes ... there is virtually NO PLOT! What plot there is seems to have been written on the back of a matchbox ... but thats not really the point of the film. Moonwalker also had virtually no plot, but was far more painful to watch as it has none of the charm and the warmth that this film had. Again a film which was essentially a string of music videos tacked half-heartedly together to get from one video to another. I would watch BB2000 1,000 times than watch Moonwalker once more.If you want gritty realism, go rent 'American History X' or something ... If you want edgy comedy, go watch 'Clerks' ... if you want to celebrate a truly great form of music, and some guiltless fun based on the classic original .. then this is a valid addition and worth a watch! "},{"Title":"Good and Bad","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The film does feature excellent cameos from both music and comedic celebrities, hailing back to the time in the 1970's when everything had to have stars participating or celebrity judges. Since then, this trend has returned in other shows, but in this film it only does so much. Having original songs is okay, but in this case, it's just a corny addition with zombified performers. The addition of Goodman's character, who starts out as a nebbish employee for a strip club, is reasonable since he did perform with Ackroyd in earlier performances with John Belushi's brother Jim. Jim Belushi is nowhere to be found, though, thus throwing off a major factor might have made the movie a little more tolerable. Even the addition of a long lost, black son of Jake's is forgivable sighting the lack of Belushi. But the addition of a little boy dressed exactly like the rest of them but wearing tennis shoes adds too much campy, corny nonsense. The kid serves no purpose other than to be cute and add a fun for the family factor that was not in the much grittier first film. The first film featured Nazis, spurned fiances attacking with bazookas, stolen air raid sirens, driving around the ghettos of Chicago where blues musicians could still play in the street. This film features traveling into Creole country in an overly-idealized south. The music is lackluster because it features songs that have little to do with the story line. The best example of this is the use of the song Think in the first film, which was executed perfectly in a small diner set; compared to the songs Respect and 864-5789 which are a used terribly and with awkward timing. At least James Brown didn't start breaking into I feel good. Someone else wrote that this couldn't have been a concert movie because those are too slow paced. I disagree in that I have seen some well shot concerts, or other films in which the concert idea was centered around a reasonable plot, but not a similar plot to other films, and the music was ingrained into the film almost flawlessly. The Blues Brothers, The Wall, Bugsy Malone (admittedly a musical), et cetera. The original featured a great plot and numerous humor points that are memorable scenes. This film used the Blues Brothers name at a bad time, and what is worse used the number 2000 when every company was putting out 2000's once a month Dracula 2000 is an example of this nightmare in which everyone adds something to their title to make it sound cool and edgy (remember all of the movies with the letter X in them?). It would be okay if the film was released in 2000, but it wasn't. It would be okay if they had called it Blues Brothers '98 and made it a film of a concert with the old band, guest singers doing some of their other favorites live. It would have been okay to make it a comedy if the film didn't need the music to hold up the plot as much. In the first movie, the music was lively and entertaining, and it was at a point when many of those musicians had been largely forgotten due to changing trends in popular musical tastes. The script was conceived of and written in the Blues country or as mister Tonso'fun Ackroyd called it where the barbecue is good. Ackroyd should have hit the gym to get in the same kind of shape he was in back in 1980. Now he's a comedic actor who has been in so many bad SNL movies (Coneheads) and has lost touch over the years after performing nothing but roles like Ray in Ghostbusters and singing We Are The World. A sequel made 20 years ago with a long lost son played by someone who was as gifted a performer would have pulled off the role and made a killing, but instead, this film was offered up to a public who wasn't demanding anything more from the filmmakers. I'd have been happier if they'd simply re-released as a special edition with deleted scenes, new special effects, additional performances, and giant dewback lizards/imperial walkers/a digital mother superior/Jake throwing the first bottle. This film, while cute, cannot even be called a respectful tribute to the original. "},{"Title":"Lacking in plot, Sinking in great cameos.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is amazing. It was never about the plot or the acting. It was about bringing terrific music to a new generation. It is the best collection of musicians still live today giving a cultural presentation of roots soul music and offering a tribute to john belushi (who lived and breathed blues music) and all those who have made contributions to the genre ie stevie ray vaughn (jimmy vaughn is there!) The music alone made this the best rental decision I've made in a long time. But there's more to love here than just that. Sure its not much a plot and its not as groundbreaking as the original but its an amazing presentation of the highest quality and nobody should go without seeing this film. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love this movie and have it at home. Many times I enjoy watching the last half hour, which is the musical highlight. As CC said in his comment on this board, a who's who of blues stars. A real delight. Also, the most entertaining closing credits ever. Don't turn off the movie when the credits are on - a real treat awaits after that.One probably has to be a true blues fan to enjoy this movie in comparison to the original. With Belushi gone, Landis and Aykroyd wisely go top heavy on the great music. The Louisiana Gater Boys - you can't beat 'em!If you love the blues you should get a copy of this. It's fun to pull out every so often. It's a great documentation of some true legends of music. "}{"Title":"If absolutely nothing else, it did have a great soundtrack.","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When Blues Brothers 2000 came out, it got some of the worst reviews that I'd ever read (I don't remember whether this stemmed from the absence of John Belushi or not) and lasted about two weeks in the theaters. But it had a truly great soundtrack, starring just about every blues and rock 'n' roll singer alive at that time. Maybe the car pileup was ridiculous, but it was pretty funny. Overall, it was good that they didn't try to have different people play Jake and Curtis (and John Candy's character). New additions John Goodman and Joe Morton add interesting dimensions. As Dan Aykroyd reminds us several times throughout the movie The lord works in mysterious ways. "},{"Title":"Under rated Guilty Pleasure","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If one does not compare this film with the original Blues Brothers movie, viewers will have a good time. The Louisiana Gator Boys is worth the price of admission alone. BB King, Eric Clapton, Koko Taylor, Charlie Musclewhite, Taj Mahal, Clarence Clemmons, Doctor John...to name a few!Aykroyd, Landis and the original Blues Brothers Band provided something fun with a good soundtrack, better than most modern day stuff.There is a respect for music that is often lacking in most modern movies. The music is upbeat and hummable. The plot is strung along to support the musical number. It is goofy and has the same internal logic if one accepts that The Lord works in mysterious ways, "},{"Title":"The finale is worth the wait through this slog.","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well as usual any sequels are usually worse than the original. This is no exception. The only saving grace besides John Goodman is the finale especially BB King, Eric Clapton, Lou Rawls, Isaac Hayes etc... It's too bad that this movie was not up to par since it was dedicated to John Belushi, John Candy and Cab Calloway. I normally defend Dan Akroyd on most of his movies but on this one he certainly lacked any originality and he failed to build upon the very good original. John Goodman added some pizazz but most of the players were there usual selves. These are musicians not actors. The music was good the acting not so good. "},{"Title":"It is not that bad","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After seeing this movie for the first time as a child of 12 i throughly enjoyed it. The fact that they pushed the same soul full music to a younger generation by introducing a young character that could jam along with the basic icons of rhythm and blues music. The fact that they repeat the drastic car chase that piled mountains of cars on top of each other is classic and still remains cool after all those years. Blues Brothers 2000 is just a the same movie with more energy and a bit more B.B King to give fans the chance to see it again in the cinema and give the younger generation the ability to find out about all this soul. "},{"Title":"Great Music!!!","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie follows the same plot as the original Blues Brothers, but I enjoyed the music in this movie more--especially the battle of the bands at the end. In this movie, as in the original, Aretha steals the show. I'm sure Aretha must be as sick of singing Respect as I am of hearing it, but she put her heart and soul into it and made it sound just as fresh as it did in 1967. My brother refuses to watch this movie, because he can't imagine John Goodman replacing John Belushi. I'm sure there are other people who feel the same way, but I say give it a chance. While Goodman is no Belushi, I was pleasantly surprised by his performance. Most sequels fall short of the originals. I think if people would judge this movie on its own merits and not compare it to the original, they would get more out of it.  "},{"Title":"The Best of the Best","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In my personal opinion it is better then the first one.  The story line was better too.  I also think that the cast and music is better.  The best of the best in the musical industry is present in this movie.  It is one of my favorite musicals. "},{"Title":"Too quick to judge","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  From reading some of the other users comments, I think that most people here haven't given the film much of a chance.BB2k knows that it can never match the charm or success of BB, and so it doesn't even try.The storyline is almost identical, and I think that's on purpose. Release from prison meet 'the penguin' get the band back together go on a road trip for one gigThey even meet Bob again...And people here think they were trying to make a new film?!I think that you should watch the film again and realise that it's not taking itself seriously, so why should we? It's a light-hearted film with some _very_ good music by old and new artists alike.Almost every scene from the first film has been replayed with a slightly modern ring to it.Personally, I love this film and I think it fits perfectly after the first. 8/10 "},{"Title":"good","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I myself found this movie overall better than the original, I really liked all the blues legends and their music in this movie. Dan Akroyd and John Goodman may not make the better Blues Brothers, but the movie was better in my eyes. Blue Brothers 2000 is a very worthy sequel/remake. "},{"Title":"It's time for real music!","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first thing I tell you is, forget the plot and concentrate in the music. That's it. The story is not that good and that's not so important, but the songs are just wonderful. I got surprised when I saw how well Dan Aykroyd and Joe Morton can sing. I knew about John Goodman's talent only. Besides their good singing, we have the chance to see and hear people like B.B. King, Eric Clapton, Aretha Franklin and many others. Don't forget to rent this video as soon as you can. My rate 8/10  "},{"Title":"Blues Brothers Tribute Still brilliant","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't believe the negative comments. OF COURSE it could never be the same without JOHN BELUSHI. But my 5 year old son and I have watched this about 30 times (it's his favourite film!). It's great to revisit our friends from BB1. The musical line-up is even better. The film is full of charm, feel good, and dry wit. Give this film another chance!! "}{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie. Even though the first one is better, I enjoyed watching this movie. Dan Aykroyd is released from prison 18 years later. He just stands there waiting for Jake to pick him up. When he finds out Jake died, he doesn't know what to do. What I really liked about this film was its violence. I consider this movie to have mild violence. What movies I think have awsome violence are Saving Private Ryan (1998), Black Hawk Down (2001), and Its A Wonderful Life (1946). Even though the first one is better, you should see this one. It has great music and monster trucks.  "},{"Title":"It doesn't come close to the original!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a long awaited movie for me, but i felt betrayed after seeing it ( It doesn't even come close to the level of its predecessor. If you didn't see the first movie, you might like TBB2K but i recomend you see the original! You will like it even better )  "},{"Title":"Ease up on the insults","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie before I saw the original blues brothers and of course nobody can debate that the first one was definatly better, but you can't expect that this one would be better with out the excellency of John Belushi in it.  Given what they had to work with, no JB and a new generation of audiences, this movie is better than anyone who has commented on it gives credit for.  J. Evan Bonifant does an excellent job giving the old generation of which many are now parents or the new generation of young kids someone to connect with.  Dan isn't at his finest, but still does a good job along side the brilliance of John Goodman.  The first movie was so good they couldn't beat it, but if don't compare the two BB2000 is still a movie to be seen by anyone who loves a good tune, and if they were to make a BB3000 like some mentioned I would be the first to see it and please have respect enough to not show hate to a movie by its predeccors it either causes disappointment (this movie) or it gives the new possibly better movie a bad name before it starts.  "},{"Title":"Not even nearly as good as the first one as a movie, but, oh that music!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As far as the movie goes, it is pretty lame.  The main problem is obvious-Dan Ackroyd and John Goodman don't have the comic timing or rapport that Ackroyd and Belushi did.  Not even close.  But when yu look at the musicians involved-the Blues Brothers Band, Aretha Franklin, James Brown, the line-up that fills out the Louisiana Gator Boys, Jonny Lang, so many others I probably overlook, that's worth it alone.  Buy the CD if it's available.  As a movie, it would probably serve better if the negative were cut up and used for guita picks (except for most of the musical numbers).  Music-10, movie-0  "},{"Title":"Can't Be THAT Bad.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First, no movie that has The Blues Brothers Band in it can be that bad. Second, no movie that has BB King, Eric Clapton, Bo Diddly, Mr. Faddis, Blues Traveler and Dr. John cannot NOT be good.It's a given fact of life. Deal with it. ^) "},{"Title":"excellent music but the story is weak...think of it as a blues opera","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  redundant storyline EXCELLENT music.  This film was predictable and lacked a good story to hold it together.  Like opera, it was filled with cliches. However, the music more than compensates for these shortcomings.  The music is fantastic and the cameos extensive and fun.  I'm glad I saw it. "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as you've heard","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Blues Brothers 2000 picks up the story 20 years later, when Elwood Blues leaves prison and discovers the heart breaking news the his brother, Jake is dead. This is when the plot goes somewhat&#133;hazy. Yes, it's not as good as the original (but could it ever be?). Yes, the songs aren't as good as before (ditto). And yes, the storyline seems somewhat random (They've got to get to the battle of the bands. Why? Ummm&#133;) But this film seems somehow able to redeem itself. Dan Akroyd plays a much-changed Elwood, who whilst not as funny without John Belushi to work with, is still charming in his own way. A surprisingly adept John Goodman plays Mighty Mac, singing well in those dulcet tones. Joe Morton plays Cab's protg (although he doesn't know it) and works well with what he's given, script-wise. J. Evan Bonifant proved to be the greatest surprise of the piece. Whilst bordering on the insufferable cute-dom of so many Hollywood kids, he manages to pull himself up to a hilarious performance (check out the dancing & harmonica playing).A star-studded cast (to those who recognise them) helps fill out the film, and fans of the original will enjoy recognising familiar faces & places. The songs, whilst not having the same toe-tapping qualities of the original are all entertaining enough, as are the lower quality car chases.I know most people will hate this film it meanders, it repeats the original and has the most unsatisfying ending of just about any film I've seen, and yet the characters, music, dance and comedy all make this a film worth seeing.Long live the Blues.  "},{"Title":"A remake , not a sequal.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Blues brothers 2000 will automatically be compared to the original film and rightly so because this film is a so called follow up. The first thing you notice is that it repeats nearly everything from the first film which is a BIG mistake because the actors and musicians were younger and the first time round it was funny. In this film it had a couple of car chases which were really lame , especially when the police cars piled up.Also to enjoy this film in any way you have to take it with a pinch of salt as a lot on this film is tongue in cheek.Why they had to introduce the child to the movie . i dont know! this just went against the grain of the first film and really spoilt it for me. Who likes to see kids singing and dancing? not me! Having said all this the music is still very good. 6  out of 10  "},{"Title":"Funnier than the original","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Had a great time watching this one. Lots of blues music and snappy dancing, the music being performed by many of the blues leading players and legends. And that car pile-up. What a riot! I couldn't stop laughing all the way through; loved the way Elwood parked his car. Funny, funny picture. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought it would be","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First I have to say that Ive never seen the original Blues Brothers movie. I happened to find this new BB movie in the library and decided to watch it. I had no big expectations because I had read some weak reviews of it but...I liked it. I really did. I liked the music, it was wonderful. I liked the cast, they did good job. Overall, I think this is an enjoyable, entertaining movie. Not a masterpiece but worth watching.I give it 7 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"yeah!","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dan Aykroyd's overweight. AbFab. Great Movie. Very intelligent. I don't know how they do it. Imaginative. Anybody else see Aykroyd's bald spot? The kid sucks. John Goodman's alright. Movie as a whole is disturbing.  "},{"Title":"***3 out of 5 stars,the still entertaining but TOO long awaited sequel of a musical comical masterpiece(*****).","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  True it was a way too long awaited sequel (18 years), which basically the only thing truly wrong with the film is that John Belushi & Cab Calloway never made it to the movie,the film still has its nice music (no where near as good as the original),okay storyline,actually nice Sp.FX,& at least a better seqeul than home alone 3 (**),true the strip club was a big no-need but at least they did the penguin stick whack & the church choir scenes right,okay 1 odd thing is that it's not 2000 at all. it was set at '98(the year the film was made),so it was a weak sequel compared to the truly comic musical masterpiece original but it still has some strengths,so in short its averagely recommendable.  "},{"Title":"One hell of a movie!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went into this movie with a great dead of skepticism. After all, the original was one of the greatest movies ever and trying to recreate that atmosphere, let alone top it, would be all but impossible.  However, within the first five minutes I knew that I'd been worrying about nothing.I can understand why some people wouldn't like it, whether they are fans of the original or not, and I think they could have done a better job with some parts of the movie (especially the ending) but it was fast paced, fitfully funny, and most importantly, had great music. There is no way that anyone can deny that this movie pulls together the greatest ensemble of super-star musicians ever seen on film.  With such legends as B.B. King, Eric Clapton, Stevie Winwood, and Lou Rawls you can't go wrong.  ESPECIALLY when they're in the same band!!  Then you have Eretha Franklin and Wilson Pickett to contend with elsewhere in the movie. And that's not to say the Blues Brothers band do a bad job themselves.  With a hilariously literal version of Ghost Riders In the Sky and other greats scattered throughout, there's no way that this film can be faulted for its music.Nor for that matter can it be faulted for its stunts, with one pile-up containing the most cars wrecked in a single scene in cinematic history and a classic crash involving a car full of members of the russian mafia, a jar of carpet tacs (or as Elwood amusing corrected, dry wall nails), a burning strip club, and 50m of a dark Chicago  street.  Scenes like these only go to prove that Director John Landis has lost none of the excellence he showed in the first blues brothers movie.If you want mega budget demolitions scenes, a dramatic soundtrack, and award winning Oscar nominated acting, then rent titanic.  But if you want great R&B music, impossible stunts, and a whole load of great laughs (aided in no small way by the deadpan acting talents of Dan Ackroyd, John Goodman, Joe Morton and newcomer J.Evan Bonifant), then you can't do too much better than Blues Brothers 2000 "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was great. I admit that the plot leaves a little to be desired, but the music more than makes up for that. Evan Bonifant makes an excellent addition, better than John Goodman who did good. It combines humor, good music, and a family message.  Definitely worth seeing several times. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Blues Brothers 2000 is one of the more disappointing movies I've seen in a while.  I'm a huge fan of the first and this one just didn't match up.  Most of the movie was unimaginative re-hashing of characters and scenes, and a lot of the movie was cartoonish and cheesy.  The only redeeming factor was the music, especially the scene at the end. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first one but still fun.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While no where near as good as the original this long awaited sequel still manages to be a lot of fun. With great music and some good car chases it manages to be fun. Belushi is missed but Goodman is a nice replacement. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this movie is possibley the worst I have ever seen in my life. The story is feeble, the acting is, quite honestly, crap and the ending is the worst I have ever seen. I find it all deeply unfunny and the music is crap aswell. And what was the point in that little kid Buster? None that's what. If you were thinking of watching this movie, I suggest you avoid it like death itself.I just hope they don't make a third film where Buster has grown up and becomes the third blues brother or some such nonsense. Total crap.  "},{"Title":"this film is great","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" i watched this film and i loved very moment of it its was fantastic i saw the blues brothers show and i haven't yet watched the first blues brothers but blues brothers 2000 was the best film i have seen.i loved buster and all the music. i love the blues brothers they are so good they were extra good in the show.i gave it a 10 because me and my dad love all they'r work and enjoy listening to they'r music my mum does really know who they are and my friends don't even know who Cher is so they don't know who the blues brothers are either.the film is amazing if you haven't seen it before.if you haven't seen the film before you have to see it.i hope you enjoy the film and have fun lisning to the music. "},{"Title":"Weak plot, great soundtrack!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   I agree with everyone else who commented on this one, plot weak, music great!   I also have to say, sure! John Goodman is no John Belushi, and nobody said that he was trying to replace him. Goodman does well on his own. So, please! Take it easy on John Goodman!  "},{"Title":"Terrific blues concert ! ! ! ! !","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Do you like blues? Did you admire The Blues Brothers? Then, you will love that one. Forget about the non-existing story, leave the bad critics behind and enjoy 2 hours of perfect, rhytmical blues which doesn't leave you just sitting and watching the film but let your legs whipping and your mouth whistling. A big compliment goes to John Goodman who fits perfectly in the role of John Belushi even though everyone knows that the original BB is unbeatable. Guest performances from Blues legends, such as B.B. King and Sex Machine James Brown, give the sequel the same look as the first one did. Stunning SFX and the (usual) car chase are just complementary stuff, the important thing is...well....the blues. John Landis, well done! Rating (for the film)    5 out of 10 Rating (for the music)  10 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Wherever he is, Jim Belushi is loving this film.","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  True, Jim Belushi, wherever he is, is loving this film and wishing it were he and not John Goodman as the costar.  Get a life those of you who will not give this film its due because it is not the original.  Hello!  It can't be, this is, believe it or not, 17 years later and this film needs to be accepted for itself.  And, it is a film that warrants acceptance.The plot is flimsy, granted, but what plot did the original have but a similar flimsy piece of whimsy?  This film has all that a music lover could want.  It as blues, jazz, carribean, country, and on and on.  If you are looking for a good time, rent this and enjoy Goodman and Ackroyd and the rest of the crew.  This is a fun film and will be enjoyed by anyone who loves music, whether they saw the first film or not.  In fact, in this reviewer's opinion, this is the equal, if not more so, of the first film 17 years ago. "},{"Title":"Why does everyone whine that Belushi is gone","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" And therefore the movie is bad? He died a long time ago, is isn't Dan Akroyd's fault for making a new, and better talented movie. It is a perfect sequel to the first, and the cast was loaded with more superstar talent than any movie I have ever seen. The plot is similar in beat to the first and has a completely different storyline. There is a 10 yr old kid in the movie who really has his moves down too. maybe the naysayers have no idea who these guys are, they are legends, Wilson Pickett, Lou Rawls, B.B. King, Dr John, even Travis Tritt, and 20 other stars, all in the same band no less! I guess because people are miserable about the whole thing that they think the movie was bad, you just can't please some people. Get over it, this is one great movie! "},{"Title":"If you liked the original, you MIGHT hate this one.","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Depending on your tastes, this movie will either bore you to tears with the  re-hashing of the first movie, or keep your feet dancing with the music.   The car chase scenes are dopy, (With only one exception, the huge pile up)  the dialog unimaginative, BUT...BUT the music makes the movie worth it.  I  loved the song and dance scenes, but the plot needed work.  I rate this  movie a 6.5 out of 10.  See it, rent it, maybe even buy it, but wait for  the widescreen edition before selecting the last option.   "}]