[{"Title":"Stallone's comeback not for the ignorants","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"203 out of 232 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I know that everyboby's laughing about a movie that Stallone's starring in. His name is an easy target even to the most ignorant ones; they immediately put him under the 'action movie' label, like Arnold or Jean-Claude. What people forget (or don't know) about is that Stallone differs from all those action movie actors, in that he turned into this icon we all know by making a series of (really) bad choices. Do you know that Sly's the one who wrote the script of the Oscar winning Rocky? Do you know that because his face is half paralyzed (from birth) he speaks in that weird way that some people find difficult to understand what he's saying (and always joke about it)? Do you know that he was paid only $60.000 for his acting in Cop Land, while he had to gain 30 pounds for his role?To me Cop land is the kind of movie Stallone should have made after First Blood. The director knows what Sly's really capable of so he gives him this role of the cop that is so fair and just, but inside him a burning past lives on. He's a hero and because of that he's lost half of his hearing to save the woman he loves, but she went on to marry another man. He can't be promoted because of his hearing, and while he wants to stay integral, he has to face the deeds of his fellow police officers.The movie showcases the struggle of a man to overcome his past, the temptation of corruption and the triumph of one's will to remain true to what he believes in. The final sequence is similar to the one's of The Unforgiven or Taxi Driver and it provides a hymn to the human spirit. Stallone's perfomance is unforgettable and he should be nominated for an academy award. Do you think that it's an accident that his performance overshadows De Niro's and Keitel's appearences?I believe that if Stallone did a movie like that right after his first 2 triumphs he could be leading a career similar to the one of De Niro's. But unfortunately, to all of us Sly's only capable of throwing hand grenades. Right Leonard Maltin? "},{"Title":"My God! Stallone can act!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"114 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone is excellent in this slow-moving, absorbing film about cops on the take. Sly goes through what must be one of the longest slow-burns in movie history as the dumb, passive sheriff who only has his job thanks to the grace of crooked cop Harvey Keitel and protects him and his gang because of it. When it finally dawns on him, as it was inevitable it would, that he's been played for a fool, the results are explosive. It's well written, with a strong storyline, great dialogue and excellent performances all round (especially from Robert de Niro, Keitel and Ray Liotta). But it stands or falls  on Stallone's portrayal of the central character, and he rises surprisingly majestically to the occasion. A very restrained, sensitive performance in a cracking good film. "},{"Title":"Stallone's Finest performance","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"99 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Copland is one of those film that gets better and better the more you watch it. The story is gripping and the acting in straight from the top drawer and top of the performances is from Sylvester Stallone. Not normally known for his acting ability, Stallone pulls out his finest performance .To say he is the best in this film is a massive compliment considering the company he performed with in Copland. Robert De niro , Harvey Keitel and Ray Liotta all put in memorable displays , of which you would expect but Stallone still stands out.  He plays the sheriff of a sleapy town called Garrison who's occupants are all members of the New York police Department.Because of an accident while saving someones life he is unable to pass the medical to get in the NYPD therefore as a sheriff he is not respected amongst the population of the town.He learns that an influential group of cops are crooked and are planning to kill to save their own necks. Totally Gripping. 8 out of 10.      "},{"Title":"A better film than many reviewers originally thought","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"74 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this file when it first came out and enjoyed it on a fairly superficial level. Now, after I've seen it again, I think it is a much better film. Not quite great, but excellent on many levels. Another reviewer has commented that Stallone's character is like in the first Rocky film, before all the Rambo BS. I agree. I think this is a showcase for great actors in an above-average script, with excellent directing. This is not a Stallone film, other actors could play this part, but he plays it to a T. Keitel is fantastic, as usual, De Niro and Liotta are okay. The subplot between Stallone and Sciorra, Freddy who once saved Liz from drowning when he was a kid, but he lost his hearing in one ear as a result and could never join the NYPD -- that's a powerful subplot that could have been more fully explored, but only at the expense of the main plot. All in all, a much better film than reviewers thought when it first came out, IMO. "},{"Title":"Finally, a role that shows Stallone's true talent","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"58 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Many people see Silvester Stallone as just another action movie hero who can't do anything but that. However, unlike other action movie stars, (Schwarzenegger, Van Damme, Seigal etc..) Stallone made his breakthrough with a movie that wasn't really an action movie at heart. He gave forth an excellent performance in Rocky and set a standard for himself that just seemed to fall and fall as his career progressed. He starred in cheesy action movie role after cheesy action movie role until finally people began associating him with nothing but that. Now finally, over twenty years after Rocky, Stallone comes back and shows people that he can be more than an action hero if he wants to. Stallone's performance in Cop Land shows vulnerability, anger, admiration, fear and many other emotions that were rarely present in any of his movie except Rocky. I'm sorry to say that I was one of the many people who took Cop Land for granted when it came to theaters simply because I didn't believe Stallone could do anything but cheesy action movies. Today, I finally rented it out of pure curiosity and was shocked at how far I was from the truth.Cop Land is a very well made film about a small town that corrupt New York City cops have made their haven. Stallone plays the sheriff of the town, Freddy Heflin, who wanted to be NYPD but couldn't due to a hearing disorder.  When Murray 'Superboy' Babitch (Michael Rapaport) shoots and kills two drugged up teenagers when he mistakes a steering wheel club for a gun in a high speed chase, his friends come in to help him. But their far-fetched plan starts to come down on them when Moe Tilden (Robert De Niro) from Internal Affairs begins investigating Superboy's alleged suicide. Things begin to go seriously wrong from here and Freddy is caught right in the middle. I thought that Stallone would have been upstaged by all his great co-stars like Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta and Robert De Niro, but I was wrong. Stallone comes out perfectly as an aging cop with smashed dreams faced with a moral dilemma he doesn't know how to solve. In many ways he idolizes these big time New York cops but he knows that many of the things they do are wrong. In many ways Stallone's performance is far superior to that of his co-stars as he exhibits more depth and character development than any of them.Cop Land is a somewhat unknown gem that many people overlooked for the wrong reasons. If you have any interest in the genre I would highly recommend it. Cop Land is probably the second best police murder/crime drama I've seen, only behind L.A. Confidential. At times the story has something to be desired and unlike L.A. Confidential is drags in some parts but the fantastic performances by every cast member more than make up for these minor flaws. I give Cop Land 8 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Better than the other ones...","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was always going to be interesting because it involves so many sides to the one story. There is an excellent balance established between all the factions involved in the case of a missing/dead police officer.The characters for this sort of movie are very original, and their flaws are revealed just as much, if not more so than their strengths. This has to be Sylvester Stallone's career highlight, and goes to show that his talents are not necessarily best for action movies. And De Niro's understated but excellently played Moe Tilden leaves you wishing he was featured more. The scenes between these two characters are worth the viewing alone. Harvey Keitel as well, plays an excellent cop/quasi-crime boss.It's a little soppy at times but overall a stand-out in it's genre. "},{"Title":"Nice movie with great actors","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"38 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't really know what to expect from Cop Land.You have some expectations when actors like Sylvester Stallone, Robert De Niro and Harvey Keitel star in this movie - but could Stallone be the quiet Sheriff? The answer is yes, Stallone did well in this movie, he showed that he isn't just an action star, he is a great actor.Cop Land had a nice story, but I think it had more potential. The movie could have lasted for 20-30 minutes more. It was a nice movie anyway, I will rate it 7/10. "},{"Title":"not a bad turn for Stallone","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Mangold's second film, the corruption drama Cop Land stars Sylvester Stallone as Freddy Heflin, the much-denigrated sheriff of tiny Garrison, New Jersey, a community which - thanks to a technicality - is populated almost entirely by members of the New York City Police Department.When young cop Murray Superboy Babitch (Michael Rapaport) becomes embroiled in a controversial shootout which leaves two black youths dead, he apparently commits suicide rather than face the wrath of an official investigation. In reality, however, he flees to safety back home in Garrison.  In the wake of the controversial events, NYPD Internal Affairs lieutenant Moe Tilden (Robert DeNiro) arrives in Garrison to uncover the truth. He attempts to enlist Freddy to watch the watchmen, including Superboy's uncle, veteran cop Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel); coked-out Gary Figgis (Ray Liotta); and Joey Randone (Peter Berg), the husband of the woman (Annabella Sciorra) Freddy loved and lost.  A rich, complex film about redemption, Cop Land's portrayal of Freddy's struggles to prove his worth mirrors Stallone's own return to thoughtful, character-driven drama after years of vacuous action roles. Like Freddy, he faces an uphill battle, fighting for respectability in the face of a superb cast including Janeane Garofalo, Cathy Moriarty and Paul Calderon.  "},{"Title":"Well played, if unlikely thriller","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Freddie Heflin is a sheriff in a New Jersey suburb mainly populated by NYPD cops seeking a break from the big city.  Freddie lives in awe of the cops, unable to join due to deafness in one ear.  However he is forced to confront Donlan and his colleagues when an IA officer Tilden begins to investigate the killing of two unarmed black men by, and subsequent suicide of Donlan's nephew Murray Babitch.This `independent' thriller boast a deep cast and certainly had a lot to shout about in the run up to it's release.  The problem is with the actual story that the film has to work with.  The start is exciting with Babitch's killing of two black motorists but it is also quite stretched.  Similarly the denouncement is exciting but is quite easy to see it coming.  However the middle section is good, as it relies on the characters and the actors to develop the story - although there is probably too much history to squeeze into a short time.Stallone proves that he can act, being excellent in a particularly unglamorous role, carrying extra weight for the part and looking like he took lessons from De Niro.  The rest of the cast would find it hard to be bad - De Niro and Harvey Keitel rekindle their Scorsese partnership and both are good here.  Liotta, Rapaport, Patrick and Sciorra are all excellent in smaller roles.  Even small roles are played by heavyweights - Emmerich, Moriarty, Spencer, Vincent and Garofalo (who only seems to have 2 scenes!)Overall the film benefits from a fantastic cast but needed a much stronger plot to justify the depth of the performances. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Cop Land'","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This star-studded cast was more impressive than the story, which is probably one reason this film wasn't a big box-office success. The names might draw people into the theater but it just wasn't a good enough story to attract more fans.Only small-town sheriff Freddy Heflin played by Sylvester Stallone, is a good guy while the others, all New York City cops, are shown to be crooked. You can overdo the bad-guy thing, too, which Hollywood does and then probably doesn't understand why the movie isn't appealing to the masses. With Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, Robert De Niro, Robert Patrick, Peter Berg, Michael Rapaport, Annabella Sciorra and others, this should have done better.Having said all that, I go on record as saying I enjoyed the film, finding it intense in parts and it kept my interest. Could it and should it have been better? Yes. It's too hard-edged, profane and too sleazy. But if you like a tough crime film, here is one. I would watch it a second time. "}{"Title":"One of the most underrated of the 90's","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie when I first saw it in 1997 in the theaters, and I have recently bought the DVD.  I still love this movie.  This is definitely one of the most underrated movies of the 1990's.  Stallone puts in a really understated and sympathetic yet still powerful performance as an out-of-shape, half-deaf sheriff of a sleepy New Jersey town populated almost entirely of corrupt NYPD cops.  The cast is magnificent, with such powerhouses as Harvey Keitel, Robert DeNiro and Ray Liotta.  Liotta, especially, is superb as a coked-out, morally ambiguous former right-hand man to Keitel who is trying to get out of this circle of corruption. I realize that many people have found the shoot-out ending to be a tad distasteful, but I argue that it actually fits the movie quite well.  Stallone's Heflin character is by no means a Sherlock Holmes.  He is a simple man with a heart of gold caught in a very tough situation.  He doesn't have the brains nor the resources to solve his problem with a brilliant plan -- but he's got balls, and most importantly he's got heart.  His solution is direct, and unfortunately, dangerous.  The fact that he is going to butt heads directly with the corrupt cops in his town is inevitable.  Much like Billy Bob Thornton's character in the movie Sling Blade, we are expecting it. We are hoping for it. Absolutely powerful and thrilling.  I heartily recommend it to everyone who also enjoyed movies like Goodfellas, and Serpico, if just to catch the top-knotch performances by Stallone, DeNiro and Liotta.  "},{"Title":"I gave you a chance to be a cop and you blew it.","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land is written and directed by James Mangold with an ensemble cast featuring Sylvester Stallone, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, Robert De Niro, Robert Patrick, Peter Berg, and Michael Rapaport. Distributed by Miramax Films it features a musical score by Howard Shore.Freddy Heflin (Stallone) is the sheriff of Garrison, New Jersey. A small satellite town across the river from the Big Apple where many of the big city cops reside. Freddy always wanted to be a big city cop but due to partial deafness was unable to make the grade. But when a hero white cop shoots dead two black youths it sets off a series of events that make Freddy realise that the big city cops in Garrison aren't as honest as he is. Thus Freddy must decide if he should get involved.It was heralded as the film to break Stallone on to the A list of serious actors, and the film where a fine ensemble had gathered and worked for a basic scale wage-such was their faith in the material. Yet in spite of making a considerable profit at the box office and receiving generally favourable reviews, Cop Land seemed to vanish without trace before it could make its mark in the cop/drama genre. A lot of that can probably be put down to the sheer weight of expectation, considering the cast involved, for something out of the top draw. However, revisiting the film now, over ten years post its release, Mangold's movie shows itself to be the tight and intelligent picture it is.From the off it's evident that there's very little good about the town of Garrison. The coppers drink and drive, cheat on their partners and the sheriff looks like an out of work, overweight slob. Mangold clearly is more about the bleak than the beautiful. As the narrative and characterisations move forward, a multitude of strands start to dangle on the screen-where it at first appears a bit too chocked-but ultimately unfolds with ease as the story progresses. Here's where Cop Land excels, it could so easily have just been another good cop/bad cop movie, one where the doofus partially afflicted guy saves the day. But Cop Land is more intimate in detail of its characters, intimacy that is boosted by a pretty flawless cast (notably Stallone & Liotta). There's healthy helpings of action and drama, but it's the dialogue driven confrontations that entertain the most; where we get the pleasure of watching acting heavyweights battle for supremacy.With a slow burn sense of doom hanging over it from the off, Cop Land very much feels like a throwback to the adult westerns and film noirs from the 1950s. There's nothing wrong with that of course, in fact it's a compliment. But this deserves its own little niche, that of the contemporary crime thriller with urban western overtones. A damn fine film with a great thoughtful script, that is acted accordingly and directed without flab and pointless filler. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Stallone Was Robbed!","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just saw Cop Land for the first time this evening. I watched the Exclusive Director's Cut DVD.This is one of the greatest films I have ever seen. Sylvester Stallone, who I've never thought was much of an actor, gives the performance of his career - a performance that deserved the Academy Award for Best Actor. Incredible. I owe the great Stallone a big apology for not seeing his gift of acting before now.Everyone in this film, including Robert DeNiro, Harvey Keitel, Janeane Garofalo, and Ray Liotta, gave stellar performances as well. I guess paying all the actors just scale brought the best out of everyone. Why this modern day High Noon doesn't have a higher rating from the IMDb voters like me is way beyond my comprehension. Cop Land deserves, at least, inclusion in the Top 250 films. Perhaps this cut that I just saw is much better than the original theatrical release. "},{"Title":"Oh My God..He Jumped!","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Leaving the Scores nightclub after a bachelor party for a fellow three seven precinct cop young Murrary Superboy Babitch, Michael Rapaport, gets in his car and drives to the George Washington Bridge on his way home to Garrison NJ. As Babitch enters the bridge he's side-swiped by a car with two coke-heads that almost up-ends him. Moving along side the out-of-control car one of the occupants pull out what looks like a shotgun, it turned out to be a steering wheel club. As Babitch hits the breaks the car speeds away only to get blasted by Babitch from behind killing the two in the getaway car. As the police and ambulance crews come on the scene they find that the two who Babitch shot dead were unarmed and that he may well be not only thrown out of the NYPD but have to serve time for homicide which cause Babitch to get very emotional. Before you know it he jumps to his death off the bridge, or did he? His body was never found. Speeding through the town of Garrison the next day NYPD policemen Ray Dolan & Jack Rucker, Harvey Keitel & Robert Patrick, are stooped by the towns Sheriff Freddy Heflin and his deputy Cindy Betts, Sylvester Stallone and Janeane Garofalo. After Deputy Betts is given a lecture by the two cop on how she should be out looking to arrest criminals not giving tickets to fellow cops Freddy lets them leave without being ticketed. As the car drives away Freddy notices that the dead Babitch is in the back seat and that he's very much alive. Police corruption and murder is the main theme of Cop Land with a cover up of a cop's suicide that unearths all the dirt that was swept under the rug in Garrison and in the 37th precinct over the last ten years. Financing the three seven precinct's cops houses in Garrison with low or no interest loans and the forgiving and forgetting about paying them off had the entire precinct working for the mob. Thus allowing the mob to push drugs and launder the drug money within it's, the three seven precinct, jurisdiction.Not believing that Babitch is dead Interanal Affair let. Moe Tilden, Robert De Niro, starts to put the heat on the cops who are sticking to the story of Babtich sudden demise. Tildon starts to make some headway in the case which makes Donlan & Co. very nervous. They realize that they have to provide a body for the police investigation of Babitch's death to close the case. That body was to be that of Babitch himself! Top notch police drama with Sylvester Stallone giving the best performance of his career as the sad-sack Freddy Heflin. Freddy because of an ear injury couldn't make the grade as a real cop and always looked up to the men of the three seven as his hero's. That's until he found out that they were anything but. With Babitch on the run after Dolan & Co. tried to murder him Freddy finds him hiding in a water tower with Figgys(Ray Liotta), another cop from Garrison, providing him with food and water. Friggy's also has it in for Dolan and his fellow corrupt cops for the murder of his partner Glenn Tunney three years ago. Tunney was about to talk to a grand jury about police corruption and was mysteriously found murdered in his prison cell before he could testify. Figgsy correctly suspected it was Dolan who had Tunney done in. Freddy realizing that he has to talk to let. Tliden about what he knows but is told that the investigation was shut down by the mayor due to the pressure of the NYPD union. Which was ironic since the fact that it was Dolan, and his fellow cops, attempt to murder Babtich that made Freddy see the light! In the end Freddy had the whole bunch of dirty cops gunned down in a wild shoot-out. Freddy pull it all off with the help of Figgsy, in a High Noon like shootout on the, up until then, quite streets and crime-free and peaceful Garrison NJ. It turned out that if the criminal cops just waited another day or so they would have gotten away Scott-free with no one, like Sheriff Freddy Heflin, being motivated to uncover their criminal actions. The movie Cop Land was a bit uneven and some of the plot-lines just didn't tie all the loose ends in the film together. The acting, especially that of Sylvester Stallone, more then made up for that and that's what makes Cop Land one of the best movie about police corruption ever made. "},{"Title":"Great Film, Great Cast, Wrong Director","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Copland was a treat of a film.  The cast was the best we had seen in any Hollywood film in years and there was no reason that this film could go wrong and even though it was a brilliant film I somehow felt quite disappointed when the film credits started to roll.I was looking forward to finally seeing Stallone show off his acting abilities as he has been very miss treated by the critics but looking at films like this and Rocky will just tell you that he can act.  Then you got Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta and Robert De Niro thrown into the mix, where can you go wrong, I would say James Mangold.   His job wasn't that bad, but I think the film should been handed to a more experienced director.  Scorsese or Michael Mann would have been the best choice to make this film as they both know how to get the emotions going and the characters flowing, but like I said this movie still impressed me in many many ways, one is Sylvester Stallone.   No one could have been Sheriff Freddy Heflin except for Sly.  He brought so much to the character and never gived it up.   Some say it was his comeback film, I would say it was the film where he had to prove a point about his acting and he sure did it with elegance and grace and I don't think I have ever come across somebody has never been moved or amazed by his performance.   Freddy is the local sheriff who abides by the law but his dream is to be apart of the boys in blue but because of a disability where he is deaf in one ear he sadly cannot be a cop, only a local town sheriff, but it's not his town.   Ray played by Keitel and his merry men run the town of Jersey.  As they are all police officers no one questions there lives and motives towards their jobs, till Freddy starts to smell something fishy and entails the help of De Niro who plays a detective wanting to bring Ray down.  The story unfolds and there are many things to look out for but the pace of the movie seems quite confused towards the end as it doesn't seem to have much special to add.   The beginning and middle are excellent and let the movie go along fantastically but you just see the end coming really and it was like the script writer ran out of ideas which seems to be the case in many films we see nowadays and this sadly was one of them.  Still Ray Liotta adds the spice to the movie and makes it extra special and doesn't make the movie a complete downfall.  I am yet to see the new directors cut but from what I heard there isn't much to notice as far as new scenes go but I will try and get my hands on it to see whether the movie has been improved but till then I will say that Copland has top notch flawless acting by everyone all round especially Liotta and Stallone and has a great story that could have gone much further but it didn't so I will leave it there.Very good "},{"Title":"Corrupt Cops, Cover-ups & A Sheriff's Remarkable Transition","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land is a tense story about corrupt cops, cover-ups and a small town sheriff who goes through a remarkable transition. With its all-star cast, some great performances and an intriguing plot, this movie's engaging right from the start but then becomes even more gripping as its characters are gradually introduced and begin to interact with each other.The small town of Garrison, New Jersey, which is located just across the river from New York City, is popularly referred to Cop Land because it's populated mainly by NYPD officers who find its suburban tranquillity provides a pleasant contrast to the areas in which they work during the day. Garrison, however, is soon revealed to be more than just an idyllic retreat, as it's actually populated by corrupt cops who are routinely paid to operate in accordance with the requirements of important crime bosses who have also rewarded them by putting up the money for their houses.Lieutenant Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel) is the leader of Garrison's rogue cops and effectively runs the town. His nephew Murray Superboy Babitch (Michael Rapaport) is a young cop who gets involved in an incident which ends with him shooting and killing two black teenagers. When it becomes clear that the young men were unarmed and Murray starts panicking about what the repercussions might be, Ray assists by faking his nephew's suicide and this seems to defuse the situation.A short time later, NYPD Internal Affairs investigator Lieutenant Moe Tilden (Robert De Niro) arrives in Garrison and tries to persuade local Sheriff Freddy Heflin (Sylvester Stallone) to help him by providing information about Ray's shady activities but Freddy declines out of loyalty to Ray and his associates. This effectively ends Tilden's investigation as Garrison is technically outside of his jurisdiction and also he's been pressured by some of Ray's connections in high places to drop his investigation unless he can provide some hard evidence to support his suspicions.Garrison's Sheriff admires the cops who live in his town and regularly turns a blind eye to their wrongdoings. He's aware of Murray Babitch's presence in the town and remains unconcerned until it becomes evident that Ray's decided to have Murray killed. Ray considers this to be necessary because until his nephew's body is found, the police investigations are likely to continue and they, in turn, could jeopardise his whole business.Freddy Heflin is a well meaning character who avoids conflict and is virtually powerless as he's controlled by Ray. He's rather timid, extremely overweight and given little respect by the men that he admires so much. He's also experienced many disappointments in the past. He's in love with Liz Randone (Annabella Sciorra) a woman who he saved from drowning some years ago. It was during this act of courage that he suffered an injury which left him deaf in one ear and this disability prevented him from achieving his ambition to become a cop in the big city.Freddy goes to Tilden to tell him what he wanted to know about Ray and his sidekicks but Tilden is no longer interested. As he's leaving the building, Freddy sees some discarded documents relating to Tilden's investigation and soon learns more about Ray's involvement in a wide range of criminal activities. This motivates Freddy to take on Ray and his gang in what turns out to be an exciting shootout.Sylvester Stallone's portrayal of Freddy is incredibly sensitive as he conveys so strongly the despair and sadness of a good natured man whose been left emotionally devastated by his past experiences. The transformation he goes through when he decides to take on Ray and his gang is terrific and made convincing by the sheer quality of Stallone's acting. The cast in this movie deliver top class performances all round, but Stallone, Harvey Keitel and Ray Liotta's contributions really stand out as being exceptionally powerful. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever made w/ one of the best casts ever assembled","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Seldom does a cast, story, and location come together so well as it does in this film. Sylvester Stallone plays a meek and mild sheriff whose small town, located across the GWB from NYC, is primarily populated by NYPD cops who took advantage of an administrative manipulation in order to live outside the city limits. In order to do this, they opened their precinct up to the mob, enabling the mob to obtain drugs seized by the cops in return for low-interest loans to buy otherwise unaffordable housing in the serene town of Garrison, New Jersey. The ring leader of the corrupt cops is Ray Donlan, played w/ admirable frankness by Harvey Keitel, who was once a noble officer but now serves as the main conduit between NYC mobsters and the precinct he serves.This film's message is a stunning encouragement to garner the courage to do what is right despite the risks involved. Robert DeNiro, in his best supporting performance as an Internal Affairs agent, is the catalyst that inspires Stallone's Sheriff Heflin, who has long admired NYPD but cannot join their ranks due to partial deafness, to take a good look around him and bring down his amoral benefactors before they end the life of a fellow officer. Ray Liotta is brilliant as a morally bankrupt undercover agent whose internal struggles between loyalty to his own interests and the memory of his dead partner (killed by a member of Donlan's network) keep him at bay until realization of his own demons enable him to risk all and aid Sheriff Heflin in his newfound quest.This story unfolds against the backdrop of a modern-day dilemma faced by city cops - should they be forced to live in the crime-swamped cities they serve or should they be enabled to live elsewhere, for their own safety and the safety of their families? Also, this film admirably addresses the personal dilemma faced by public servants like Freddy Heflin - should Heflin, whose eternal dream to become a cop was granted to the furthest extent possible by Donlan's gift of a sheriff's position, sacrifice his own well-being by doing the right thing and turning on Donlan and co. or should he continue to quietly serve as a member of Donlan's nefarious network? Perhaps the best scene in the film is not even found in the original version but rather the Special Edition Director's Cut where Stallone and Keitel have a confrontation at the Four Aces (the local pub exclusively reserved for Garrison's NYPD pop.). Stallone exhibits his disgust and dismay at the true nature of Garrison and Keitel barks Who the f*** do you think you are? Stallone replies The Sheriff of Garrison, New Jersey. The climax and finale exhibit not only the costs of sacrificing one's comfort for what is right but also the rewards. "},{"Title":"An avant grade role for Mr. Stallone","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is rare for people to step out of their comfort bubble. Even actors, for as successful as they are, they too suffer from breaking what they are comfortable at performing in. Here's a film that not every Stallone fan might see everyday - similarly to that of The Truman Show (1998) a year later with Jim Carrey. This particular role is so far in left field for Sylvester Stallone that it almost seems like the wrong choice. When in fact, it proves that Stallone by far can still back a punch even when he's not pulling a trigger every five minutes.Stallone plays Freddy Heflin, the Sheriff of a small town in New Jersey called Garrison. All seems fine and well with the town and Freddy himself until an incident occurs on the George Washington bridge that connects the New York and New Jersey police departments. After the problems arise, Freddy is challenged on his thoughts and beliefs that he had never considered before. This is where things get interesting and dangerous simultaneously. As time goes on, Heflin begins to dig and as he digs, he discovers that everything is not as he thought.The writing is something to behold here. Directed and written by James Mangold, the same man behind Walk the Line (2005), 310 to Yuma (2007) and most recently The Wolverine (2013), created a screenplay that not only defies the normal typecasts that most actors have, but also adds depth to the main character of Freddy Helfin. If it weren't for any of the background given to Stallone's character, the audience would have no idea about Heflin's past and why he acts the way he is in the movie. When it is revealed though, it's a heartfelt story that contains a lot of emotion. Even more interesting is how little Stallone uses a gun. Not only is Stallone overweight but he barely even raises his voice - which is rare. The character of Heflin is very self contained and covers it up well.Also playing a role that is out his usual casting role is Ray Liotta. For anyone who's not familiar, Liotta frequently plays scumbags and creeps. A good example of this is from Unlawful Entry (1992) and a bad example is from Turbulence (1997). But what wasn't seen coming was Liotta playing not only a supporting character but also a tactical one. There is one scene where he explains to Stallone's character how he should take on convicted felons and the advice he gives is extremely noteworthy. Liotta, you should be doing this more often my friend. Along with him are Harvey Keitel, Robert De Niro, future director Peter Berg, Robert Patrick, Noah Emmerich from The Truman Show (1998) (how coincidental!), and just for laughs Mr. RoboCop 3 (1993) himself, Robert John Burke. All the actors, even the ones not mentioned do a fine job.What also makes this movie a fish out of water role for Sylvester Stallone is how human the story makes him look. This isn't a movie where Stallone mows down villains with a rapid-fire gun without taking any hits. Stallone's character is flawed and limited, humanizing him for the entire running time. That's something serious. Adding to the realism of the story is the cinematography where most scenes take place in the suburbs or along the shore outside the city. Finally what helps complete this feeling is Howard Shore's score to the film. It isn't the strongest of film music but it does contain some very simple themes that help bring out the emotion of various scenes. Overall a very strong drama / thriller.It's not your regular Stallone shoot 'em up and that's fine. The entire cast in the movie performs great. The music isn't complex but is well supported by a strong cast and character driven story. "},{"Title":"A superb performance by Sly","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Slightly deaf soft spoken Freddy Heflin (Sylvester Stallone) is a sheriff of the New Jersey town of Garrison, that transient New York cops also live in. He always wanted to be a cop and has a tad of envy for them, but because of his disability he could never pass the exam. Robert De Niro is Lt. Mo Tilden, an Internal Affairs investigator. His current investigation leads him to Heflin's small town. This was a pretty damn good cop drama. And it should have been the one that put Sly back on the map, as his performance here is golden, but it was not to be as he choose to follow this with such turkeys as Driven, the horribly Get Carter remake, and the unfunny Avenging Angelo, which is a shame as I really like the guy. Same with writer/director James Marigold, this film showed he had talent to spare, and as an adverse effect I found myself disappointed to all the films that he's made prior. It's a damn shame that this picture didn't even pick up an Oscar nomination as it's a more fully realized and better film than the same year's L.A. Confidential My Grade B+ DVD Extras Commentary with director/writer James Mangold, producer Cathy Konrad, and actors Sylvester Stallone and Robert Patrick; 2 deleted scenes with optional commentary by the same people as the main commentary; Shootout storyboard sequence; Cop Land The Making of an Urban Western featurette; and a compilation Trailer for MiramaxEye Candy A stripper is topless "},{"Title":"Solid Cop Thriller","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a solid cop thriller that's suspenseful and extremely well acted. It's a powerful film at times,with a pretty suspenseful finale plus, it has a good mystery to it as well. i really liked all the characters, and it has one of the best casts i have ever seen. I admit i was expecting this to be a bit better, however i still enjoyed it very much ,and it also helps that the story is engrossing for the most part. although i would have liked to see more of Robert Deniro, he still shined in his scenes, and all the rest of the cast, is awesome especially Stallone and Liotta. The Direction is very good. James Mangold, does a very good job here, creating some cool atmosphere, and some cool camera tricks here and there nothing fancy but he did his job very well. There is a bit of blood. We get quite a few extremely bloody gunshot wounds in the finale but that's it. The Acting is AWESOME!. Sylvester Stallone is AMAZING as always, and gives one of the best performances in his career, and he proves that he is a fantastic actor,in this he is always amazing, but this is one of his best, as he is required to play a very gritty and different role here and he was up to the challenge! (Stallone Rules!). Ray Liotta, is Awesome here, he is a fantastic actor, and i just loved every minute he was on screen! he's crazy (Liotta Rules!). Harvey Keitel is also one of my favorites and he is great as usual when on screen. Robert De Niro is AMAZING as always, and was great here, i just wish he had more screen time!(Deniro Rules!). Peter Berg is fine with what he has to do. Janeane Garofalo is okay, but didn't have much to do. Robert Patrick is great here and adds his usual intensity. Michael Rapaport does what he has to do well, as the rookie cop. Annabella Sciorra is easy on the eyes but her part is very thin. Cathy Moriarty adds class when she's on screen. Overall this is a solid thriller that i expected a bit more of but still highly recommend! ***1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Give it 7 of 10, good story of some bad cops brought to justice.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I suppose what I liked most about Cop Land was the role Sly Stallone played, as the half-competent town sheriff who was expected to look the other way when shady dealings involving the NYC cops who lived there came around. Turns out he is quite a good shot, although he can't hear worth a damned out of his right ear. Some shooting, much use of the F-word, but all-in-all a good story with a feel-good ending as the bad guys get what they deserve. Actors include Harvey Keitel, Robert DeNiro, Ray Liotta, Isabella Sciorra.Saw the DVD version, fine picture, great sound, especially during the various crashes, good use of surround sound. Worth a look if you like intense cop films. 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"CopLand","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stallone is impressive as a small town sheriff standing aside in the midst of police corruption, led by Keitel. DeNiro clocks in and out in a small cameo, needing more depth of character for us to care about him at all. The film is too short with an abrupt and violent ending. It's an okay film, but it needed more story and more added to it to be a keeper.   "},{"Title":"Stallone's Best Non Franchise Movie","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Continuing my plan to watch every Sly Stallone movie in order, I come to 1997's Copland.Plot In A Paragraph Freddy Heflin (Stallone) is the sheriff of Garrison, New Jersey, a small town that many NYPD officers call home. He idolises them, especially Ray Donlan (Harvey Kietel) but when an officer (Michael Rappaport) is responsible for an incident involving the death of two civilians, he starts to realise his heroes may not be the good guys he thinks they are. Playing it subtle, playing an overweight Sheriff, deaf in one in ear, sad, lonely and practically beaten down by life. Copland features Sly's best performance since First Blood, and a serious argument could be made for it being his best since 'Rocky'. Sly does some great acting with his eyes, something normally reserved for his portrayals of Rocky Balboa. (Watch the scenes where De Niro calls him a deaf f**k and as he sits looking at the bridge just after his car accident) He is wonderful here and deserved an Academy Award nomination at least. I certainly rate his performance over the actual winner Jack Nicholson in 'As Good As It Gets'.Of the rest of the cast. Ray Liotta is brilliant as Heflin's best friend Figgsy, and if his character had been better written and more fleshed out, he'd have walked away with the full movie. Harvey Kietel is as great as he always is. Robert Patrick turns in a fine smarmy performance as does Michael Rappaport (an actor I'm a fan of) John Spencer is as wonderful as always, whilst Robert De Niro isn't given as much to do as one might hope, and Cathy Moriarty is under used.There is a lot of subplots, most of which are not explored. Figgs's drug problem, the bad blood between Figgs and Jack (Patrick), Heflin potentially having a drink problem, the relationship between Figgs and Ray, the relationship between Heflin and Rose, racism, affairs and the dumping of garbage bags. Characters pop up and then disappear We are teased with a scene between De Niro and Keitel early on, as Keitel says he will come in and see De Niro's Internal Affairs agent, but it never comes off and we miss it. Stallone has described this as the beginning of the end, for about eight years saying after announcing 'Daylight' would be his last action movie, and then going method (gaining the weight) and playing dramatic in this (despite solid reviews) he said he struggled to get roles or his own movies off the ground for the next 8 years. There are two versions available of this movie, the theatrical release and a directors cut released on DVD. I believe that between the two versions is a 10/10 movie, as it is, it's a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, hard hitting story","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" James Mangold's Cop Land has enough star power to draw millions, but the real power lies in its smoldering script. It's a tale of regret, redemption and corruption anchored by an awesome lead performance from Sylvester Stallone. He plays Freddy Heflin, a sheriff of a district just outside New York City, where almost all the inhabitants are cops, looking for a sanctuary to build their families away from the grease and grime they put up with every day. Because of this, and an accident in his early youth that rendered him unable to join the force himself, his authority is subtly undermined by the town full of cops that he polices. This is Stallone's best work, playing a broken down guy who's had it with life. When a rookie cop called Superboy (Michael Rapaport) accidentally commits double homicide, the crime is covered up by his veteran uncle (Harvey Keitel) and his gang of bent up blue vests. It's a suspicious event that incites an investigation by Moe Tilden (Robert De Niro), and raises Stallone's desire to put things right, as well as more than a few painful memories of the woman he loved (Annabella Sciorra) who married one of Keitel's goons (Peter Berg). It's a dirty kaleidoscope of many characters and subplots weaving in and out, but held together like superglue by the outstanding screenplay, penned by Mangold as well. At times the characterizations are so vivid that we feel like we're in a western. Keitel is the picture of evil as a guy who's justified his crooked actions for so long that he really believes he's doing right, which makes him very dangerous. Ray Liotta, in the best performance of the piece, plays a disgraced ex cop with a fiery temper and a few bones to pick with Keitel himself, as well as a flawed, cowardly side. The actors chow down on Mangold's delicious, rich dialogue and keep you locked to the screen. There's nice work from Robert Patrick, Janeane Garofalo, Noah Emmerich, Cathy Moriarty, John Spencer and Arthur Nascarella as well. "},{"Title":"Stallone's Best Performance Apart from Rocky and Rambo","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 1976, esteemed film critic Roger Ebert said after having seen Rocky that Sylvester Stallone could become the next Marlon Brando. To date, Rocky I remains Sylvester Stallone's best movie as an actor. He was nominated for a Best Actor Oscar and was also nominated for Best Original Screenplay. Unfortunately, Stallone did not become the next Brando. He remained successful mostly as an icon, known mostly for Rocky and Rambo. In addition, he acted rather well in most of those movies, except perhaps the disastrous Rocky V and Rambo III. Most other movies Stallone starred in sucked big time!! Which is what makes Cop Land such a valuable movie in Stallone's career. It's a wonder he wasn't nominated for an Oscar for this movie honestly. He proved once again he could act but not only that, he doesn't play the impassable unaffected hero of the movie. Stallone stripped himself of all of the monosyllabic machismo and actually broke down and acted in something that wasn't Rocky or Rambo and aside from those performances, Cop Land is Stallone's best movie apart from Rocky and Rambo. He breaks down and acts. He gained all of that weight in body fat (not muscle) and played a man coming to terms with a life full of missed opportunity and mishap, forced by mere conscience to take action, a very human hero and story. This is Stallone's f you to all of his haters and record winning razzies. He should have received an Oscar nomination for this movie. Great cast as well. By all accounts, most would praise Robert De Niro and even Harvey Keitel and Ray Liotta as better actors than Stallone. Stallone held his own very well with these giants and showed himself to be an equal New York bred and street tough actor. Kudos to Mr. Stallone. I wish he had made more movies like this in his career and stepped out even more. "},{"Title":"He coulda been a contender.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm rating this so highly because Stallone finally made a movie I really liked watching (and I'm including all of the Rockies including the first one when I say this). This film has really got to hurt Stallone when he rewatches it--he's gotta be thinking, I coulda been an actor! (as another reviewer alluded to). If for no other reason, you should watch this movie to see what Stallone's career might have been if he hadn't taken the path of least resistance and biggest bucks, as he went right back to doing after this critically-acclaimed film flamed-out in theaters. I should also mention that the entire film is solid--tight plot and pretty much flawless acting all around, but we all know that we are really watching it to see how well Stallone stretches beyond Rambo-- surprisingly well as it turns out. "},{"Title":"The Star-Studded Cast Is Not The Best Thing About Cop Land.","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, Robert De Niro, Robert Patrick, Michael Rappaport, Noah Emmerich, Janeane Garofalo, John Spencer, Frank Vincent, and Peter Berg. Here are all of the well-known stars in the riveting thriller, Cop Land. If you don't know their names, you sure will know their faces. Movies with this many stars are bound to be good, and this follows that rule. But the many stars is just icing on the cake.Many people dissed Cop Land for having too many subplots and the regular plot to be too complex. Tell me, isn't that what made LA Confidential so great? Isn't that why The Matrix was a sci-fi masterpiece? Wasn't that Hitchcock's favourite thing to do? Let me say IT WAS! The general story is a half-deaf Sheriff in a New Jersey suburb named Freddy Heflin (Stallone), is always respected by his peers and residents of the town which mostly consist of NYC cops. When Officer Ray Donlan's (Keitel) nephew, Murray Superboy Babitch (Rappaport) kills ignorant speeders and commits suicide, Internal Affairs' Moe Tilden (De Niro) assigns Freddy to the case as everybody knows the suicide is a hoax. Freddy doesn't think much of it, until he discovers the truth about his friends and the whole town. Freddy wants to uphold the law, but is fairly warned by his loyal, and somewhat crooked friend, Gary (Liotta). I know that what my summarization is long, but it is no different than any movie I mentioned earlier in this review. Cop Land is Sylvester Stallone's comeback performance. He never left, he just got on a string of dumb action movies and was losing touch in the later Rocky and Rambo movies. Before Cobra, everybody knew Stallone to be a great actor. The days of Paradise Alley, FIST, Rocky, and Lords of Flatbush proved that Stallone was destined to greatness. He did get popularity and lots of movies, but poor reception after becoming a sellout. Cop Land was to show the world that Stallone has not lost his touch in acting, and that he can still act like he did twenty years earlier. Of course Rocky is his best role and performance, but his role as Freddy Heflin in Cop Land is right behind it. Nobody could have played Freddy Heflin better. There's no wisecracks, or cheesy looks, or anything that Stallone usually has. He is a confused and determined cop whose life is in great danger. In fact, he was so good, he deserved an Oscar nomination. 1997 was a very competitive year for movies, but I'm saying that he deserved a nomination. A nomination for acting's greatest prize is almost as good as the actual win. "},{"Title":"Stallone can act","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stallone shows his acting chops in this movie by becoming a demoralized small town sheriff. Demoralized because he couldn't become an NYPD cop and settled with the help of friends. Friends who expect consideration. We feel his disgust with his second-rate life all because he is deaf in one ear as the result of a heroic act he performed as a young man. It's an act we are sorry to see him come to regret.His life is made all the worse because of the occupants of his town. He closes his eyes to what's going on around him and his disgust turns to self-hatred but he sees no way out.Someone comes to him for help in cleaning up the mess he has come to loath that has taken root in his hometown him but he refuses. When he decides to do something it's too late.What will he do? That's the story.This movie is a competent suspense with some big names in key roles. It's better than I expected and Stallone carries this film with his surprising talent. I have underestimated him in the past but no more. Stallone deserves to be the star he is. "},{"Title":"One Of Stallone's Best Performances","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land is Garrison, New Jersey - just across the bridge from New York City, where a lot of NYPD cops have chosen to live. Sylvester Stallone plays Freddy Heflin - the sheriff of Garrison, who has to police a town where many of the residents are corrupt cops.As a movie about corrupt cops, I wouldn't say that this is the best ever made. I actually found the corruption angle, with its links to the mob, to be a bit confusing. What we do know is that there's a hero cop on the run from his fellow officers, who want him dead. But I didn't find the corruption angle all that compelling. What really held my attention in this was the character of Heflin, and Stallone's excellent portrayal of him.Heflin is a wannabe NYPD cop, who couldn't get on the Force because of a hearing loss. Being Garrison's sheriff is a distant second career choice. But it does let Heflin hang out with the NYPD officers who live there, and he basically gives them free reign in the town. What's fascinating is the character development. Heflin starts as a guy who barely seems to care about his job, and ends up as the guy who brings down the ring of corruption. The evolution is gradual - almost imperceptible. Stallone was superb in the role. It's definitely one of his best performances.The supporting cast in this holds their own without a doubt, but this is worth watching because of Sylvester Stallone. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Not exactly what I expected","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone plays an overweight loser of a sheriff in this movie, which is just as intriguing as it sounds. It's weird to see him like that, and it really shows that the man, contrary to popular belief, can act. Freddie couldn't become an actual cop because of a banal hearing disorder, which seems to weigh the character down with every step he takes. Stallone shines in the role, though shines probably isn't a good word. Oh well. The rest of the cast is pretty damn impressive too Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, Robert De Niro, Robert Patrick, all in great shape. That doesn't make the movie a true classic though. It starts out well, with the classic one honest guy in a pool of corruption-theme, but it pretty much loses me near the ending. The way the story is resolved is just so unoriginal, so unsubtle and I should add, makes very little sense. The villains have to be dumbed though by about 100 IQ-points to make this ending even vaguely believable. The first hour and a half is very good though, it's still worth it. "}{"Title":"I don't get it, but I like it","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is a little town in Jersey, across from the Big Apple. It has been assembled by some of New York's finest cops, as a kind of utopia community for the NYPD. The catch is that it has been financed by mob money. Everyone keeps their mouth shut, but one night, circumstance unties a loose end, and now everyone is after a young cop, to shut him before he talks. The local sheriff, whose job is mundane and dull, suddenly finds himself in the middle of a big game, when he decides to bring down the operation that he has helped bring law and order to for twelve years.This is the plot of Copland as far as I understand it. Despite feeling convoluted and contrived, the movie is nonetheless, effective. To put it one way, it is a soap cop-ra; the intertwining of a dozen cops in a game of cat and mouse, right and wrong, fear and anger. It is well directed, and equally well acted with a great cast, topped by none other than Sylester Stallone. CopLand is proof that the guy is actually capable of acting, he's just never really done it for most of his movies.I'd call that sufficient for a cop thriller, (even if there is room for a bit of improvement) "},{"Title":"Cop Land is a underrated film.","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The version I will be writing about is the Director's cut.Cop Land is a underrated film.Plot Sheriff Freddy Heflin (Stallone) is down on his luck. He's overweight and deaf in one ear after an accident. He stumbles upon a corruption case that could be a ticket out of his situation. The case is also connected to a cop killing that involves Ray Donlan (Keitel) and his band of cops(Robert Patrick and Peter Berg) His only ally is Sgt. Moe Tilden (DeNiro) who's on the rat squad. Can Freddy figure out the mystery? The director's cut is a definite improvement over the theatrical version. It has over 20 minutes of new footage that really fleshes out the characters. Stallone's and Keitel's in particular. They have a fantastic scene towards the climax. In the theatrical version, the climax feels rushed and underdeveloped, but in the new cut it makes sense.The whole cast does a great job. Liotta is very intense. It's Sly's best performance ever. Deniro and Keitel are at their best.I highly recommend the director's cut of Cop Land.For more insanity, check out comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"Intense and very underrated","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just picked this gem up for the Kyle collection. Every time i watch this flick it seems to get better and better. Awesome performances from the entire cast, even a very passive Stallone (something Im not used too) Stallone plays Sheriff Freddy Heflin, years ago he saved one of his town's people in an underwater car accident and injured his ear which pretty much kept him from enrolling within the N.Y.P.D. He did however become sheriff of a town named Garrison that was built for NYPD cops and their families with the sole intention of keeping them away from all the scum and bad guys where they work. Freddy is the perfect pick for Sheriff, he's quiet, not a mean bone in his body, and as the NYPD put it..As dumb as a rake...or is he??? I mean how hard could it be watching over a town of cops?No one in their right mind is going to start anything there.The problem is the cops themselves, taking deals with the mob, stashing incriminating evidence and when one of their own shoots up two black males passing through in a botched up pull over they have to pull the ultimate cover up...Maybe even taking out one or two of their own crew in the process??? This movie was bashed heavily by the critics (who as far as i am concerned don't know their butts from a hole in the ground!!) If you are a fan of cop dramas as I am, make sure you give this a look you wont be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Cops Versus Cops.","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Writer-director James Mangold's literate, old-fashioned crime saga Copland, starring Sylvester Stallone, takes itself far too seriously to any fun. You should know by now that the Italian stallion gained some forty pounds for the role of the slow-witted but amiable small-town New Jersey sheriff. Indeed, watching Copland is like watching Rocky armed with a badge and a gun. Whereas Rocky brimmed with surprises, Copland springs few surprises. Mangold trots out his oddball characters, turns them loose on each other, and allows audiences to eavesdrop on the ensuing chaos. Moreover, Mangold has modeled his parable of justice clearly on the oft-told tale of the tortoise and the hare. Copland takes its title from the sleepy New Jersey hamlet of Garrison just over the river from New York City. A precinct of N.Y.P.D. cops pulls duty as auxiliary transit police, so they can live outside the city. Ray (Harvey Keitel) and his fellow policemen take Mafia payoffs so they can afford to live out of state without attracting undue attention. Ray has set up a patsy to be the sheriff of Garrison. Freddy Heflin (Stallone) lost his hearing in one ear when he rescued a drowning woman. The car she was driving crashed off a bridge and sank to the bottom of a river. Freddie swam into the vehicle and lost his hearing getting her out of the car. Freddy had always dreamed of a career in the N.Y.P.D., but his deaf ear prevents him from joining the force. Along comes sneaky Ray who happily obliges, and makes Freddy a sheriff, the closest he can come to being a cop.Ten years pass, and things take a turn for the worst. A young, highly decorated cop (Michael Rapaport) guns down two crack-smoking black youths. They side-swipe his car on the George Washington bridge. One of them pulls what appears to be a weapon on him, and the cop shoots them. Turns out that the weapon was a steering column lock. When the dirty cop Robert Patrick plants a gun on the dead kids, an irate EMT protests and hurls the machine gun into the river. The young cop freaks out and jumps off the bridge. At least, that's the story that Ray manufactures. He smuggles the kid off the bridge in the trunk of his car, but Ray's troubles have only just beginning.When the dirty cops initially move the kid, Heflin and his patrol partner Cindy (Janeane Garofalo) stop them for speeding. Freddy lets them go, but catches a glimpse of the kid peering up over the backseat. The newspapers play up the young cop's suicide, but his body never washes up. A lavish funeral is held, with his uniform buried in the casket. Later at Ray's house that evening, the dirty cops toss the kid a send-off party. Ray's frumpy wife (Cathy Moriarty) warns the kid before her husband and his cold-blooded pals can drown him in his backyard pool. Eventually, Freddy tracks down the kid to his clever hideout. Both of Freddy's deputies bail out on him when he takes the kid into custody. Ray and his thugs show up, overpower Freddy, and grab the kid. They fire a gun near Freddy's ear, and he grovels in pain while they careen off. Retrieving his shotgun, Freddy stumbles down to Ray's house for a blood splattering shoot-out.Writer-director James Mangold has penned a hard-hitting but ultimately routine morality play. You won't find glamorous heroes, voluptuous heroines, multiple fireball explosions, death-defying stunts or awesome special effects here to dazzle you. Copland belongs to the lone-man-against-the-system genre, prominently featured in westerns from 1950s such as High Noon and 310 to Yuma. Symbolically, Garrison, New Jersey lies across the river from New York, the same way the Rio Grande separates Texas from Mexico in westerns. A day doesn't pass when Freddy Heflin doesn't stare across the river at the promise that New York holds. Freddy will never realize his dreams, but that doesn't keep him from dreaming. Hey, break out F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby if you prefer literary comparisons. Impassable barriers and borders and destinations that never materialize crisscross the moral universe of Copland. Everybody in Copland is trapped in a moral universe that makes no exceptions for looks, money, or power. Director James Mangold and Stallone emphasize Freddy's awkward physical nature. The first time we meet Freddy, he is drunk playing pin ball. After his coins run out, he stumbles outside and breaks into a parking meter. Later, as he drives home, a deer bursts across the road in front of him. Sluggishly, Freddy swerves off the asphalt and crashes his prowl car. He walks through the next couple of scenes looking pathetic with band aids stuck across his nose. During the final showdown at Ray's house, Freddy handles his guns like a rookie instead of a nimble action hero. Freddy is far from a genius, and he clumps along like the turtle. But like Rocky, Freddy is in the game for the long haul. When Internal Affairs throws in the towel and refuses to hear Freddy's confession, the sheriff sets out to straighten things out himself. Stallone seems to enjoy re-establishing his gone to seed character every time he crosses in front of the cameras and positions his paunch near the lens. Unlike Rocky, Freddy is at a dead end. He has nowhere to go, and he doesn't even have a girlfriend, not the kind of hero that Stallone has played in ages. Certainly not the kind of hero that impressionable audiences seek to imitate. Hypnotic performances, especially from Stallone, a solid but lugubrious story, and a sense of the inevitable make an offbeat policer like Copland worth watching despite its dreary pacing and predictable approach. Ironically, this is a Stallone picture where his performance is more interesting than the story. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining Cop Drama","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Enough cannot be said about the wonderful acting job turned in by Sylvester Stallone (yes, you heard right) in Cop Land, a highly underrated movie involving police corruption. Having gained thirty pounds for the role and playing against type, Stallone turns in a masterful performance, which along with solid support roles by veteran actors and a who's who list of Sopranos guest stars makes Cop Land highly entertaining.Stallone plays Freddy Heflin, the sheriff of (fictional) Garrison, New Jersey- a town just across the George Washington Bridge. Garrison is fronted by the mob and populated by New York City cops in an arrangement made possible by crooked Captain Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel). Stallone's Heflin is a beaten man- a good person scarred both physically and emotionally by loss; his partial loss of hearing from saving a drowning woman years earlier, and his unending love for that woman, who is now in an abusive marriage with one of the city cops in town. Depressed that his disability prevented him from being an NYC cop, Heflin just goes through the motions as a sheriff with no real drive or authority, turning a blind eye to the corruption that swirls around him. Things change when a police cover up goes bad and the cops in town attempt to murder one of their own. Slowly, Heflin realizes he must uphold the ideals and quest for truth required by his profession.Stallone is magnificent. Long dismissed by many as a legitimate actor for his portrayals in the Rambo sequels, Cobra and other forgettable action flicks, his performance shines. His one scene with Liz (Annabella Sciorra), the woman he loves dearly but cannot have is heartbreaking- and perfectly conveys the hurt and loneliness this generally good person endures daily. Another scene which seems trivial but reveals a great deal occurs when Heflin is at the town fair late in the movie and shoots at a carnival target. After missing the first shot, he puts five shots in succession into the star'. This simple act awakens him (and a disbelieving cop played by Robert Patrick who's watching); and shows us that Freddy Heflin was at one time a formidable and determined law officer. In the end, he finds the courage of his convictions and justice prevails.Ray Liotta, Harvey Keitel and Robert DeNiro also turn in good performances in support of Stallone in this highly recommended film. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Sensational cast; intriguing, yet muddled plot","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Despite the all-star cast of characters, the film shows signs of inexperienced writing and direction. While satisfying, the understated film is dragged down by excessive secondary characters with unclear motives. Consequently, one is left to wonder how great the film could have been had the script and roles been tightened.As 'Superboy' Murray Babitch, Michael Rapaport is miscast and delivers an unnatural performance as a feeble, insecure cop. His character is reminiscent of the under confident, awkward and struggling actor he played in True Romance. Robert DeNiro delivers a strong performance as Moe Tilden, though he is greatly underutilized, with perhaps ten minutes of screen time. A stripped-down Sly Stallone provides a compelling performance as Freddy Heflin, a somewhat burnt-out, apathetic yet well-meaning sheriff dealing with a plethora of moral conflicts.In areas, the script lacks clarity and vision. For example, the romantic scene involving Stallone and the Liz Randone character failed to advance the story or their relationship. One is left thinking she has taken advantage of Heflin's generosity. The psychology behind the actions of the enigmatic Figgsy (Ray Liotta) were nebulous. Still, the film provides an interesting look at the pertinent issue of police (and political) corruption, which is more widespread than society wishes to believe. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie deserved much more publicity than it got. The intensity and suspense with which it was made is just perfect and it gets the adrenaline pumping throughout the whole film. The acting is just perfect. Harvey Keitel is frightening and Robert Patrick's face is made for a role like Keitel's right hand. I really like De Niro too, who is my all time favorite actor by the way;-) in this movie, and it is not because i am biased in any way. He fits perfectly for this role. He just acts so cool and superior in the role as this internal affairs guy and nice mustasche by the way!. The great chemistry between De Niro and Keitel and the gang makes a perfect combination displaying De Niro's superiority and seeing through the tough shells of the bad guys. You can tell, that inside, they fear him, but they also hate him! Keitel has an outlet of relief, when after De Niro leaves, he says Fucking rat!. I can't believe how great an actor, De Niro is. Stallone gives one of his best performances. You can really tell how he feels as being the push over of the town and how he hates it so much after all these years, but he's just too good of heart! You feel somewhat sorry for poor Stallone, especially when he goes to tell De Niro the whole thing. I hated De Niro's character for doing that to Stallone's character. Very convincing I must say by Mr. Stallone. The only problem I had with Stallone was when he got a little bit too excited when Figsy turned his back on the whole deal and Stallone yelled something like Go on, Figsy. Go ahead and run, Figsy. It just sounds so unintelligent and made me think of the Aaaaadriaaaaan yelling in Rocky. Horrible. Stallones gal, Annabella Sciorra, whom he saves from drowning is also very sweet and it seems, that they are the perfect couple and you REALLY want them to get together. Ray Liotta plays an addicted cop who has a grudge with the bad gang from old times, when his partner got killed, and he becomes Stallones friend. He does a decent job.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yellow Betrays Blue","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In a land where nothing is what it seems, Freddie Hefflin is the sheriff of Garrison, New Jersey. Garrison is an eerily normal town with young families and very low crime...due to the fact that it is inhabited almost completely by cops. Just a few minutes drive across the bridge from the Garrison, though, lies the monster of New York City where (as Harvey Keitel's character Ray Donlan describes) everything is upside down as the cop is the 'perp' and the 'perp' is the victim. As much as we wish that all of these cops are upright men and women, with only the most noble concerns at heart, we quickly find that such is not the case.With an overweight Stallone (who upped from a 32 to a 39 waist for the role) playing the extremely insecure Hefflin, this movie lost much respect from critics from day one as it relied heavily on cast and performance. The formula for its success, however, does not disappoint as DeNiro and Keitel are re-united for the first time since 'Mean Streets' and both actors give two of the best performances of their careers. The plot of the film (however easily attacked by over-eager critics) is still riveting enough to keep the audience glued the storyline and characters with the aid of a slight suspension of disbelief. Ray Liotta also delivers brilliantly in the depiction of the complex character of Gary 'Figgsy' Figgis who finds himself in a moral battle between his fellow officers and his friends.Movies of this caliber are rarely made anymore; a simple enough premise that requires closer investigation by the audience, complete with an exceptionally talented cast right down to the very minor supporting roles (i.e. Peter Berg, Michael Rapaport, Annabella Sciorra, Mailk Yoba, Janeane Garofalo, John Spencer, Paul Calderon, Robert Patrick, etc). 'Cop Land' is a story about the true blue of not only the grit and integrity of real police officers but real people. It's a great example of how moral lines can be blurred and how, especially within the world of crime and politics, the answer is not always so easy. Stallone's performance is by itself an achievement, and if you're a fan of the old boys of New York, you'll love seeing them duke it out on screen. "},{"Title":"Badge of silence...","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone plays Sheriff Freddy Hefflin, a half deaf cop who brings down corrupt cops (played Harvey Keitel, Robert Patrick and more) in his small town where corrupt cops seem to get away with anything due to Hefflin's looking the other way. Hefflin is aided by Robert DeNiro and Ray Liotta in his quest to prove that nobody (even if they have a badge) is above the law. Cop Land in my opinion is truly Stallone's most underrated. Even among his fans, the overall impression from people and their reaction to this movie was that this was only so-so. I however disagree. Cop Land is a complex and riveting drama that doesn't have lots of action but does have an interesting story with three dimensional characters that make the overall movie far more interesting than what you would expect from a 90s Stallone movie. I do admit that i'll always prefer Stallone's Rocky and Rambo persona due to my nostalgia but I for one think that this movie deserves to be remembered as one of Stallone's best moments. Not only in the 90s but overall. There are of course flaws, such as Robert De Niro's underwritten character, Stallone's subplot involving the girl he saved when he was younger etc but these are minor flaws which never detract from the overall momentum of the story. Cop Land deserved to be a hit at the box office.* * * Out of 4-(Good) "},{"Title":"Whose bread I eat,his song I sing.A matter of conscience?","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Is there really such a thing as misplaced loyalty?Surely it's only a matter of perspective?You are either loyal or disloyal. Simplistic?Naive,deliberately ingenuous?These are among the issues raised by Cop Land. Professionals within the legal system in England have a phrase to describe the fairly widespread practise ascribed to police officers whereby - -hanging together lest they be hanged separately - they will encourage evidence against active criminals and close ranks against any outside investigative agency subsequently involved.Noble Cause Corruption is how that sort of conduct is classified although you would be hard pushed to find anybody willing to acknowledge the fact. If you live in a Company town and you owe your job to the Company - even if that Company  is the NYPD - you might well be expected to owe loyalty to your employers.However ,overlooking parking tickets is one thing,turning a blind eye to murder quite another matter. From the perspective of the NYPD officers living in Garrison, N.J.,the Sheriff (Mr S. Stallone) is their creature.Used to years of his quiet compliance,their reaction to his volte face quickly runs from contemptuous amusement through disbelief to murderous rage. Are they so wrong to have expected his silence?He's a fellow cop after all. In perhaps the ultimate expression of what might be called Ignoble cause Corruption Mr Stallone is marked for murder by his former masters and is forced to call in the I.A.D.,not a move any cop would find easy. The film contains the criminally under - rated Mr Stallone's finest performance whilst the Scorczese Repertory Theatre members do their respective familiar things - well,familiarly. Definitely several rungs above the average corrupt cop movie,Cop Land may not be a think piece as such,but there is plenty to think about in between the macho posturings Is Mr Stallone's perceived treachery towards the NYPD in fact a greater loyalty to the philosophical concept of the triumph of good over evil? Well,they sure as hell didn't think so. "}{"Title":"One of Sly's best films and performances.","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sly Stallone is really a guy not known for his acting , but his wise cracks and able to compete with the like of Arnie and Van-Damme. However his performance in Copland really got thinking - Why does not he do more stuff like that? Normally I can't stop laughing when he is on screen but during Copland he got me hooked. The story is of a Sheriff in a town which basically is populated by the Police (NYPD). Stallone however plays a partially deaf man who will only rise to that level of law enforcement, right from the start the action kicks of with police officers of the NYPD and how far they go out of their way to protect their own , and just in general really corrupt buggers who hide behind a badge saying You can't touch us ! Stallone knows and turns a blind eye to this but it is only a matter of time. Stallone makes you feel sorry for as a man wallowing in self-pity and really keeps the movie going on . But however Harvey Kietel, Robert Patrick do an out-standing job as dame right nasty NYPD , Robert De Niro had a small but fiery part. To conclude , Sly should pick more roles like this and will rapidly win a hell a lot of respect and admiration as he has proved that he can rise beyond your typical tough guy image.COPLAND 8.1 OUT OF 10 "},{"Title":"If you think Stallone sucks, think again.","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off, hats off to James Mangold for assembling what had to be one of the finest casts of the 1990's. Second, another hat off to him for making the best Martin Scorsese film Scorsese never directed. Third, thanks for reuniting DeNiro and Keitel. They need to work more (together, that is).But the real treasure of this film is Sylvester Stallone turning in the finest performance of his career (arguably) and the finest since the original Rocky (indisputable). If you have only seen Stallone in his pumped-up muscle fests of the 80's and early 90's, then you haven't seen the real Stallone. Copland allows Stallone to inhabit a character that completely unlike any other we have seen him do.Freddie Heflin is the sheriff of a small town on the Jersey side of the Hudson River. He desperately wants to be NYPD but can't because he is deaf in one ear. The good news is, the entire town is populated with NYPD cops so the town has the lowest crime rate in the state. The bad news is someone got all those cops low-interest home loans through the mob in exchange for some favors. Freddie was given the position of sheriff because the locals think he's slow, stupid and will tow the line to keep his job. They are about to find out that they are wrong.Stallone gained a lot of weight to become Freddie. He plays the role totally introverted, only speaking out toward the end when he is finally pushed in a corner. His clothes don't fit him. He walks awkwardly. He nods and smiles a lot. In short, Stallone melts into the character, leaving behind all the ego he has been accused of bringing to his parts. It's truly a revelation...and should have re-launched Stallone as a dramatic actor, possibly even a mini-DeNiro.I'm not going to give away the whole story, but one of the best elements I have to mention here. The way Freddie lost is hearing is a tragic story. At the age of 18 he witnesses a car go off a bridge. He dives into the water to save the driver, a teenage girl. He rescues the girl, but loses his hearing in the process. The girl, whom he falls in love with, rejects him and marries another man, an NYPD cop. To this day, Freddie watches her from afar, always keeping an eye on her and hoping one day she'll come around to feel the same way for him as he does for her. It's a touching extra to a story of hard boiled men locked in a hardcore power struggle.Lastly, I know a lot of people love Ray Liotta. At the time this came out I was not a fan. This, in my opinion, is Liotta's finest work. He utters one of the best quotes in cop movie history, Being right isn't a bullet proof vest, Freddie. "},{"Title":"Krazy Keitel Srikes Again","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This mystic journey flowed very gracefully as it explored issues of police corruption. Like an eagle soaring above the fecal infested waters of the Hudson river, this movie takes American cinema to a new level--not unlike the performance of Mr. J. Travolta, Esq. in Battlefield Earth. He not only starred as head-honcho-alien-tough-guy, Terl, but also co-produced this 119-minute piece of crap, which stars token heartthrob Barry Pepper (you can sprinkle some of that on me any time!). Hey, when you get some of the finest talent that America has to offer not only will you see Pepper, Travolta and Keitel, you'll find Seth Green, Vin Diesel, John Just Gotta Pay the Rent  Malkovich, and Dennis What Were You Thinking? Hopper--wait a second, this sounds like a couple of Knockaround Guys.Basically, all i'm trying to say is that this proves that cops are above the law. Sly's portrayal of the shy, yet understanding sheriff, Freddie, takes him on a reality quest with a couple of the good IL' boys. Sippin' on long-necks, chasing pelt, and reminiscing about times past are the only values these cops are able to uphold. "},{"Title":"A film that needs to be seen more than once.","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film featured the very elite of acting talent, most of them new yorkers which gives the characters extra credibility. On top of that it is thought out very well and doesn't slam us with multiple killings and car chases unlike most crime pictures. That's why it's such a unique experience, not just because of the actors.Sylvester Stallone was a very good choice for the main character, Freddy Heflin. A not too bright but essentially decent man who doesn't seem to have a lot of drive when we first meet him. He was probably the one who everybody made fun of and pushed around when he was a child. That he seems to have accepted the fact that he will never get the girl of his dreams and never be truly respected seems all the more sad.The Harvey Keitel character, Ray, is the kind of character that Keitel has specialized in. Ruthless and without an ounce of goodness. All the people in Garrison seems to owe him something and he is always surrounded by the same people.Robert De Niro plays an Internal Affairs Lieutenant who has been monitoring Garrison for years. He seems to know all the answers but is unable to prosecute because of Ray's cover-up. De Niro and Keitel have a grudge against each other from the past when an officer they both knew died under mysterious circumstances. It's funny to see the one scene that De Niro and Keitel share because you can feel the tension between them right from the start. Otherwise this film belongs to Stallone but there are also a memorable turn from Robert Patrick as Ray's enforcer, a truly evil character. Peter Berg, the dimwitted boxer from The great White Hype also has an important role but is somehow never dealt with in a satisfactory way.The whole film has a menacing overtone except the few scenes with Jeanene Garofalo as Freddy's deputy. Her part is microscopic but I think that she has a nice down to earth kind of charm that makes it nice to see her among the great actors in this film.The best thing about this film is the way we get a little bit of information in each scene without the film giving itself away the first ten minutes and I wish that action directors could take a lesson from this director in how to build up suspense. The one fault is the abrupt ending which doesn't do justice to what has gone before. Instead we get a rather silly disclaimer and the film is over. So everything considered this is a well made film that just needed a little rewrite and it could have been great. "},{"Title":"Great return to form for Stallone!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a real return to form for Sly Stallone, in his best role since First Blood. He has spent almost his whole post Rocky career wasting himself in unchallenging action men roles, that any knucklehead could play. It's never really felt right seeing Stallone do this, despite his physique. We enjoy seeing Arnold, Jean- Claude and the like playing these one-dimensional killing machines because it is the peak of their ability but Stallone is an Oscar nominee and should be doing better roles. With Freddy Heflin Sly put on an impressive gut and plays a very interesting character. This is a great performance from Sly with people at the time touting him for an Oscar nomination but in the year of LA Confidential and Titanic the competition seemed too much. The support cast are good and the direction crisp in this well written thriller. Many felt it was too pessimistic about the American police force in much the same way as Training Day was but in all honesty you have to think to yourself they can't that great if so many films portray them in this way. Much like Training Day the negativity comes from trying to nit-pick a very good movie. **** "},{"Title":"Sly is in rare form","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cop Land is a must see film that everyone must watch. Sylvester Stallone is in rare form as he delivers an outstanding performance as the local sheriff in Copland.Cop Land is the type of movie that would probably appeal only to certain people such as those who like a certain actor or enjoy thrillers.I happen to be a member of both categories because I like all the actors and I enjoy thrillers. I noticed how similar this was to Heat, which starred Al Pacino and Robert De Niro. This is a slow paced movie that works. I do not think this movie could have worked if it went in a faster pace. Stallone did such a great job he proves that he is more than an action star.Supporting Stallone in Cop Land, are Ray Liotta, Robert Patrick, Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro. Each one of these actors provide a unique spark that no other have and when put together in one movie will guarantee a really good film. "},{"Title":"Stands multiple viewings","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Please add me to the list of people who think this is a truely beautiful film.  Check out Stalone's reaction shot in the first scene, after he loses the pin ball game - you can feel a whole lifetime of humiliations reverberating back from this tiny defeat.Also, the beautiful scene scene where the woman Stallone loves, asks, Why didn't you get married? and he replies, Because all the best girls were taken.  It's just heart-breaking.I cannot understand the generally luke-warm or negative critical response to this film.  I think it's a fricken master piece. "},{"Title":"Stallones finest hour","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Copland is almost unique in big-name, high profile movies in that (for a brit with no direct experience of NYPD) it believable. There are no pointless romantic sub-plots, no ridiculous special effects set pieces, each death is treated as a serious, traumatic event, and the characters are (for the most part) recognisable. I personally think that the pacing of the film and the atmosphere is absolutely spot on, and it reminds me of a number of films made in the mid seventies.This is by far and away Stallones best performance, including the Rocky films. "},{"Title":"NYPD Recruitment Film","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There's really no sport in making fun of a film like this. But when Stallone outacts DeNiro, you know you have classic garbage. I'm not a cop, I don't have any friends or relatives who are cops, but I really can't stand it when these rich clowns trash them like this. Question You are a cop. 2 guys driving recklessly sideswipe your car, and then when you try to pull them over, one points his Club at you and it looks like a machine gun. Is the cop wrong for blowing them away? If you think he is, you will love this movie. If you are sane, and think a cop has the right to defend himself, don't waste your time watching this.    "},{"Title":"Stallone Gives Oscar-Worthy Performance.","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone, Ray Liotta, Robert DeNiro and Harvey Kietel star in this amazing movie which deals with the story of crooked cops.  Stallone plays a Sheriff of a small New Jersey town where most of the NYPD lives. The cops are crooked and a set up goes bad, very bad.  I dont want to give away too much of the movie because i saw it knowing nothing and absolutley loved it.  The best thing about it to me was Stallones performance.  He was just great.  I think he really deserved an oscar for it.  Everyone comes down on stallone for being just an action star, saying his only good acting performance comes from Rocky and Rambo..well if you all believe that just check this movie out, Stallone will really impress you. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Jersey's Finest; bumper crop of superb cast","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  COPLAND (1997) ***1/2 Sylvester Stallone, Harvey Keitel, Robert De Niro, Ray Liotta, Anabella Sciorra, Cathy Moriarty, Robert Patrick, Peter Berg, Michael Rapaport, Noah Emmerich, Janeane Garofalo, Malik Yoba, John Spencer, Frank Vincent, Edie Falco, Paul Calderone.  Powerhouse cast lifts this Lumetesque crime drama about a corrupt corp of New York City cops living in fictitious Garrsion, NJ that comes under scrutiny when a coverup is botched and the local sheriff (Stallone in an excellent low-key perf) must come to terms with doing the right thing.  Great acting and tight direction by James Manigold, who also wrote the screenplay.  Noteworthy for Stallone pulling a De Niro by gaining some 40 pounds and proving that an actor gets better the heavier they get.  `A modern day Western when you think about it, not unlike `High Noon'.  "},{"Title":"how come everybody's so surprised?","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was just reading some comments on the movie Cop Land. Some people were oh so surprised claiming that Stallone had finally proved he really could  act. Well, how is it that Stallone acts so well in this movie? The answer because the script is pretty good, because his role demands certain acting skills, which Stallone easily lives up to. What I mean to say Stallone has always been a good actor, his problem was that his roles had never demanded any acting skills (except for Rocky, F.I.S.T. and maybe First Blood). Ever since Stallone merely played monosyllabic and stereotype characters like in the other Rambos , Cobra, The Specialist, Judge Dredd etc. And he did his job well, he played the part the best way it could be played. I think Stallone (or rather his management) did a pretty lousy job concerning his carreer moves - instead of trying different and above all credible things (I use the word credible regarding Stop! Or my mom will shoot, not too bad though, but that's not what Sly can play, that's just like Jim Carrey playing the Terminator). On the top of his carreer in 1985/86, Sly should have tried to change his genre, such as Arnie did (in contrast to Sly, Arnie can have a funny and ironic appearance on the screen), instead he chose to play almost the same roles over and over again. Nevertheless Stallone was and still is a great actor. And fortunately since Cop Land most people share my opinion, although it was quite obvious already before. Talking about Cop Land this was a good movie, Sly once again as an underdog but this time with some physical lacks which makes it much more interesting to watch. "},{"Title":"Stallone makes up for his previous films","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, Stallone manages to act well in a serious and believable film. And he does not only act well, he is surprisingly good.Sheepish, lame and somewhat dumb, Stallone's character is truly credible - for the first time in Stallone history, and I have to say that you tend to forget his hitherto career.I'm glad to say that most bad actors can make up for their sometimes hideous performances (in Stallone's case, watch Daylight or Cliffhanger to see what I mean), and Stallone comes back with a vengeance in this film.Other actors are pretty good, especially DeNiro (as always), but it's Stallone that makes this movie happen. "},{"Title":"A touching, thrilling and powerful movie!!!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are practically two types of films.There are those which we watch, and have a good time during its projection's time, and there are others that mark us forever and teach us important things, as friendship and love, fault and redemption, and they stay in our hearts. In 1997,director James Mangold filmed a touching and exciting masterpiece, Cop Land, that,as the protagonist,had a fat, aged, melancholic and suitable Sylvester Stallone. And it is starting from Sylvester Stallone's character, sheriff Freddie Heflin, that we notice that Cop Land will talk about blame, pain and sadness, about the fears that haunt us, and the hard road which takes to reach the redemption, when showing a man's fight,a person who needs to look for forces inside of himself and to face the latent corruption which dominates the small city of Garrison.Deaf of a heard and sad, Heflin spent all his life in Garrison, and he saw the woman he loved most (and for whom he lost the audition, when trying to save her from a car accident) get married with another policeman. Counting with a great cast,that includes Harvey Keitel (as Ray Dolan, a corrupt and evil cop), Ray Liotta (as Gary Figgs, the partner and friend of Heflin), Robert De Niro (as Moe Tilden, an Internal Affairs 's tough agent who is obstinate to end with the corruption that dominates the city of Garrison) and many others, Cop Land is a dramatic, psychological and touching thriller.Garrison seems to be a safe and ideal city everybody knows each other, and most of its inhabitants are cops. Cop Land counts with a expert and efficient direction, that knows how to balance the moments of tension, drama and action well.Even sinning for its slow rhythm, Cop Land is already one of the best and biggest crime- drama ever filmed. Stallone has in Freddie Heflin the chance of showing his talent. Heflin is very similar to Rocky, because both are innocent, but they see each other in situations in that they need to face their deepest fears and to win in the end... Touching and redeemer, Cop Land is a film that deserves to be seen, for its exceptional performances, for its interesting and touching story and for being a quality entertainment, with an excellent production. Then, watch this film! Cop Land is rated for violence, profanity and language.  "},{"Title":"Excellent 20th Century Western","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kudos go to both the cast and crew in creating such a compelling yet simply structured film, and that also creates a fabulous atmosphere through performance inter-meshing flawlessly with Howard Shore's excellent score. The story is simple yet totally captivating, and centres around a naive, disabled (deaf in 1 ear) and simple minded Sheriff Freddy Heflin, played superbly by Sylvester Stallone in a subtle, gentle and understated performance. While surrounded by excellent performances by the likes of Harvey Keitel, Robert De Niro, Robert Patrick, Michael Rapaport, Annabella Sciorra and particularly Ray Liotta as a nefarious, but ultimately loyal to Heflin Garry Figgis, Stallone carries this film with a truly stand out, if not career best performance. He is ably supported by writer-director James Mangold, who has a very clear trajectory with the story, and makes it particularly fascinating by rooting the structure of the story as a Western, even though it is set in contemporary New York. Stallone plays a character very different from his normal choices flawed, naive, disabled, and somewhat simple-minded and nothing like his previous superhero type characters. However, what is so great about his character, is while most of the characters around him, who are his friends, want the status quo, and in some cases, they will kill to keep that, his character makes a courageous, if possibly suicidal decision to challenge the status quo, leading to the film's powerful climax. There are clear echos of High Noon here as all of Freddy's friends suddenly see him as the enemy at worse, or abandon him at best. It is also interesting that Heflin's journey earlier in the film is not a neat linear one. His initially unswerving loyalty to his friends, particularly to Harvey Keitel's Ray Donlan, and his initial rebuff of Internal Affairs investigator Moe Tilden, played solidly by De Niro (who brings loads of interesting detail to what is not much more than a glorified cameo) seems to indicate that he doesn't want to get involved with despite his intuition and some incidents in the story making him question his loyalty to his friends. However, events force him to confront his law enforcement colleagues, leading to an excellent climax that is a relatively simple and low budget shoot-out, but works so well because the audience has invested in the characters and care's what happens to them. It is also helped by Mangold's clever use of sound and slow motion in this part of the film. While the characters are all law enforcement types, action is not the focus of this story - it is the dramatic conflict between the characters, which is the heart and drive of the film. While technical credits are solid, it is composer Howard Shore whose score understands the tone of the film so well and helps elevate what was a competent low budget film into feeling something more epic, expansive and emotionally involving.Overall an outstanding result. Congratulations to the cast in particular, brilliantly led by Stallone and Liotta, with director James Mangold being an excellent guide in shaping the story, and Howard Shore in creating a fantastically involving atmosphere with his terrific score. "},{"Title":"A Great Bad Movie","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Listen to me you deaf #$%&, I gave you a chance to be a cop, back when we could have done something...I gave you a chance to be a cop, AND YOU BLEW IT!!!!! Right up there with I coulda been a contender Rosebud and I'm gonna make him an offer he can't refuse, a classic line in American Cinema.Copland has been out for ten years now, and it has taken me a long time to appreciate how awesomely bad this movie really is. I mean you have a collection of A List actors, and they come together to deliver such an incredibly awful movie. It is one of those movies that is so bad that it is actually fun to watch. Robert De Niro gives one of his most memorable performances as IAB detective Moe Tilden. When they write cop movies, they always have to have the internal affairs guy, and DeNiro plays it to the hilt. He won't sleep until someone goes to jail, or until they start putting napkins in with his sandwiches. Of course anyone in IAB has to have someone they are gunning for, so enter Harvey Keitel playing dirty cop Ray Dolan. Not only is he on the take, he arranges hits to take out cops in Jersey who are just not dirty enough. You don't want go along, you get thrown off a building. This movie has many laugh out loud moments, and they mostly involve Ray Liotta. He is a great actor, but in this film he just stayed up for a week straight on the bag of coke he had left over from the end of Goodfellas. Paranoid, strung out, and crazy enough to stick a dart up Robert Patrick's nose. And of course there is Sly Stallone. Everyone was so excited about this film because it wasn't a stupid action movie that Stallone has been doing for the last 20 years. He really delivers, because you end up feeling sorry for the big lug. His biggest case of the year is investigating the thrown garbage incident. Look for the excitement on his face when he gets the caper.If IMDb ever makes a list of the ten greatest bad movies ever, this will be on there somewhere. "},{"Title":"Under-rated.","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The first thing that makes this film jump out at you is the incredible cast assembled Sly Stallone, Robert De Niro, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, Janeane Garofalo, Cathy Moriarty, Frank Vincent, Michael Rapaport, John Spencer, and Robert Patrick. It's one of the most impressive ensembles I've seen, certainly one of the best of the 90's. The problem that many movies have when they contain such a galaxy of stars is actually delivering... and although Cop Land is never going to be regarded as classic by most, due mainly to the 'hollywood' narrative, it delivers.Every performance is top notch, with arguably the best performance coming from Sly. . De Niro, Keitel, and Liotta have a tendency of stealing films, such is their ability and screen presence, but it's Stallone who you find yourself glued to. You watch in awe as the bloated 'former' action hero acts his heart out. Maybe is not so surprising, he produced a very moving performance in the first Rocky movie, and its nice to see he still has that in him. Cop Land is not just about great performances, there is a thrilling storyline and the direction from Mangold is very stylish. With well developed characters and an interesting back-story, Cop Land manages to be many stories in one- each as compelling, and the mob influence over the police force is compelling, so much so that you end up wishing they hadn't sugar coated over it with the loser-turned-hero ending. Here lies a downfall of sorts for Cop Land. For all the great performances in a well developed, intriguing story, it panders when it should go for the throat. The underdevelopment of De Niros's character is frustrating. He plays an Internal Affairs agent who is integral to the story, but he rarely makes an appearance, and there is a history between his character and Keitels character that could have been explained further. There is so much material here, which could have produced a 3 hour epic, but, of course, this would not be financially viable for the studio. Another case of Hollywood money-men holding back a potential masterpiece. Good film, could have been genuinely great.They made themselves a place where the s**t couldn't touch them. "},{"Title":"One of the better films of 1997","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cop Land is quite entertaining.  It has a very good concept with excellent actors and while it doesn't come together perfectly (sometimes in might also be a tad far fetched), I think it should appeal to the masses.The film has Sly as a local NJ sheriff (grow a little fat there, Rocky?) who looks the other way when bad things start to go on with his fellow cops, until the advise of cop De Niro steps in.  Minus Pesci, the film has actors that have been in most Scorsese films (Liotta, De Niro, Keitel), which is a nice touch, not to mention a terrific ending and fine location places (this is one of two films to be filmed right in my town of Teaneck).  Not completely perfect, but it is still a must see.  A "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have come to appreciate this film much more now that I am older. When this came out I was expecting a more typical Stallone action vehicle and by those standards I was disappointed. However, I was wrong and Cop Land is a great film. Sly made the right choice by choosing this project as it certainly is well made, but different type of project than he normally does. Sly gave an excellent and vulnerable performance as a partially deaf sheriff in a town full of cops. To get more into his character, he put on some weight as well. Cop Land is an excellent blue collar police drama that reminds me a lot of Goodfellas. The ensemble cast of Martin Scorcese regulars like Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta and Robert De Niro certainly solidifies those similarities and that is not a bad thing. Cop Land brings to mind the gritty cop thrillers of the 70's. Cop Land also brings back Sly to where he started. In his early career, he started out as a serious dramatic actor before the success of First Blood, which made him a household name in action. He then followed up with many testosterone fueled films where he became a top star. Writer/director James Mangold made a very good film that I am glad to say I gave a second chance. Cop Land is a great film and quality production that is well made and earned the respect it so richly deserves. "},{"Title":"Excellent direction","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Yeah, Stallone is v good, director better. You can kinda see where he has maybe told Stallone 'Here, lower your head, a bit of contrition, you're an elected sheriff, you gotta kowtow to the others' but dammit it is well done. Keitel of course great but a few others make it a good movie too, well scripted, Liota surprising, and Janine rocks as sidekick partner, love her role, v understated given her usual thing. The scene with Stallone and one of the good ones that had been taken, is actually really well done and short, simple, and sweet, but not overly done. I'm thoroughly enjoying this movie. I have been searching and sadly can't find much but I think it deserved more awards. "}{"Title":"Stallone at his best hands down","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I never give a movie a 10, and I chuckle when people do. And I don't talk about plot, you can find that elsewhere. Rather, I talk about a film's merit, and there is plenty to be said here. Bar far, I think, Stallone's best work, this film is complex on many levels as a little of things are at play here the disappointment of a sheriff who feels he's left his potential behind him, the departmental bickering between municipalities and different precincts, and the disparity between clean cops and crooked ones to name a few. As the movie grooves on, you see just how brilliant the casting was here as you forget guys like Ray Liotta and Jason Patrick aren't really cops. Rappaport was believable using his real New York accent, DeNiro delivers as always, but it's Stallone who steals the show as the overweight, tired and clean sheriff who takes heat from his crooked cop counterparts. Direction was wonderful, cinematography wonderful, and beautifully lit as well. Not a lot to complain about. Sit down, get comfortable, and watch Sly steal the show really pay attention to watch how masterfully believable he is, and how the pain he feels seems genuine. Where are these performances from him in all the rest of his movies??!!?? Director and screenwriter James Mangold (Walk the Line, Girl, Interrupted) got the best out of all of his star-studded cast, but Sly deserves the Lions share here. A must see, in my opinion, for lovers of the genre. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was a great movie with a fantastic cast! It was awesome to see all these great actors come along in a great story about a corrupt town. You can tell the film was a low budget film but it was a great story with some good acting by Stallone. The first time I saw this movie I was kind of confused because I didn't really pay attention which made me not like the movie. The second time around I fell in love with it. It was amazing to see Stallone actually act instead of being a tough guy with one liners, and Ray Liotta is always amazing along with Robert Deniro. One of the best casts I have ever seen in a film. Great movie with a all star cast, definitely worth watching!!! "},{"Title":"Severely Underrated","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is an absolute gem! A slow burn, no doubt, but every scene -every moment- pays off.I wonder how different this movie's legacy would be if it were released nowadays. Everything that audiences love about Breaking Bad or True Detective etc is here in spades.In fact, I'd argue that this film is the 2nd season of True Detective that people wanted. An absolute perfect urban western.And the performances are just incredible. Every single actor is bringing their A game, and an argument could be made that each one gives one of the, if not THE, best performances of their careers. I wish Stallone would do more movies like this, because he clearly has the chops. Deniro as well (who has since become regulated to flaccid studio fare). Just because he can't pull off Cape Fear excellence anymore doesn't mean he has to do The Intern.I hope something happens that causes people to revisit this film. "},{"Title":"Great Cast. Great Caper.","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land (1997) Dir James Mangold / Cast Sylvester Stallone, Robert De Niro, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, Michael Rapaport Community populated with law enforcement with a fine line drawn between those that obey the law and those that exploit it. It stars Sylvester Stallone as a Sheriff who hates his job but is determined to become a cop himself. A young cop disappears after he supposedly jumps off a bridge after two hoodlums are killed in a car chase. Robert De Niro enters as a Lieutenant who allows Stallone to prove himself. Director James Mangold goes for realism over action and creates a tension filled drama about corrupt law. Photography is dim and uninviting but casting is spot on. Stallone is great as a Sheriff longing for a higher position and pays a price for justice when his hearing defect is tested. De Niro is in his element in what appears as standard material. He tests Stallone to the limits despite the formula role. Harvey Keitel is effective as a crooked veteran cop who hides a missing cop but is really out to eliminate him. Ray Liotta is well cast as Stallone's partner who is on the wrong side of the law but will ultimately will come full circle when Stallone needs aid. Michael Rapaport plays the young cop struggling to lay low. Compelling film about the desperation to bring justice to a community that knows no such thing. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Stallone does well in great cast","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The 4 Aces is a cop bar in Garrison, New Jersey for NYPD officers. Local Sheriff Freddy Heflin (Sylvester Stallone) is in love with Liz Randone (Annabella Sciorra). He had rescued her once which cost him his hearing in one ear and any chance of joining the NYPD. On the other hand, Liz's abusive husband Joey Randone (Peter Berg) is NYPD. Murray Babitch (Michael Rapaport) is an officer nephew to Lt. Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel). He kills two guys after mistakingly believing they shot at him. Jack Rucker (Robert Patrick) tries to plant a gun in the car but the paramedic confronts him. While everybody is looking away, Ray claims that Murray jumped off the bridge. Internal Affairs Lt. Moe Tilden (Robert De Niro) investigates. Ray and Jack are driving home to Garrison with Murray hidden in the back. Deputy Sheriff Cindy Betts (Janeane Garofalo) catches them speeding but Freddy lets them go. Figgis (Ray Liotta) is a loud-mouthed corrupted former cop friend.Stallone is stretching out his acting by playing the beaten-down reserved sheriff. I'm fine with his performance. Sometime people forget that he is a pretty good actor. His writing shows that he has the brains. However this movie moves too slowly. I kept waiting for the investigation to move. It feels like the movie struggles to find its drive just like Freddy himself. The cast is filled with the who's who of New York Cops and Mob characters. The story feels like it's spinning its tires. The audience waits and waits and waits for Freddy to wake up and it's well past midway before he does. It's a little too long. If it occurs earlier, the tension could be kept at a higher level. "},{"Title":"Stallone at his best","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A very good film containing some excellent performances, not the least being Stallone's. There's a bit of Rocky 1 in the performance, ie the good hearted slightly vulnerable persona evident at the beginning of the film, however the development of his character is accomplished and credible. I enjoyed Keitel's performance, here was a man with his finger in the dam when other holes appeared, his character's superficially calm demeanour becoming less credible as the heat was turned up on him by unseen bad men who were pulling his strings. It's certainly worth a watch, a well made well acted film that may be a little cheesy in bits, but in the main has a strong storyline supported by a good script, the right amount of action and as said some excellent acting performances! "},{"Title":"An okay film made great by its cast","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When you have heavyweights Robert DeNiro and Harvey Keitel on board, you expect some pretty damn fine acting. And, of course, from those two (and Ray Liotta) you get it. Therefore, some might find it strange that these greats are sort of dotted around Sylvester Stallone - a man not known for his diverse range of acting talent.Stallone plays a Sheriff, in charge of a (mainly) quiet town that's home to New York's cop population. After years of having an easy job, he slowly uncovers a whiff of corruption and has to investigate.I'd use the phrase 'slow burner' to describe Cop Land. With Stallone in the lead, some might be mistaken for thinking it's some sort of action movie. It's not. It's a slow police thriller - definitely an acquired taste. The story is nothing new or exceptional, but, as I've already said, it has DeNiro and Keitel backing Stallone up - something that can't be overlooked.Therefore, if you remade this film minus the A-list cast, you'd probably have a turkey on your hands. The cast definitely elevate it over other similar stories.And fair play to Stallone who, despite mumbling throughout most of the movie (you know - how he does), he did at least shed a lot of his trademark muscle in favour of piling on the flab to look more 'out of shape' for his role as a Sheriff who's just going through the motions of law enforcement in a town where - technically - no one is the baddie.If you like cop movies, you'll probably get some enjoyment out of this. However, I can see some people labelling it as a bit slow for their liking. "},{"Title":"Stallone Stands Out--and Up","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A movie with a plot like this usually only goes two ways in Hollywood the main character joins the man the crooked cops are trying to kill and get back at them in a twenty-minute blaze of gratuitously violent, over- the-top glory; or the main character will simply screw himself over with his moral dilemma and get himself killed by those he used to consider his friends and idols.Luckily, Cop Land isn't as generic as that sounds, since it doesn't really go either way. De Niro and Keitel are great as always, reviving their old Scorcese days for their roles here. What really stands out is Stallone's performance. Having only seen him in movies like Cliffhanger, Rambo, and Rocky, I figured he had about as much range as say, Bruce Willis--always playing himself, running (or shooting) his way through the movie while still maintaining his usual look. Willis is always quiet and snappy unless the situation takes a turn for the worst. Jason Statham is always the angry British guy. Arnold Schwarzenegger is always big and booming. Stallone himself was always a bit jumpy and wild, mumbling through conversations whenever he wasn't yelling a battle-cry.But here, while he still mumbles, he's almost a completely different person. Here, Stallone's a quiet, somewhat socially awkward, friendly sheriff named Freddy who idolizes members of a police force he couldn't get himself into due to an ear injury from rescuing a girl in a car crash years earlier. He's got a gut, and no spine to support it, turning a blind eye to the little crooked things his idols let slip. He doesn't act against them due to loyalty to men he admires for doing what he couldn't do join the force.All of that changes when a young hero cop nicknamed Superboy blunders, whose death is faked at the crime scene by Freddy's idols as a cover-up. Freddy soon realizes the truth when he sees Superboy in the back of Ray Donlan's (Keitel) car, alive and well, hiding from the public. He's pushed by an Internal Affairs agent named Tilden, to do the right thing and help him bring Donlan and his to justice. It's generally up to Freddy to disregard his loyalty for what's right.Now, there's a whole connection with the mob thing and other complications I won't spoil, and while there's a brief 'blaze of violent glory' I hinted at in the first paragraph at the end, it's not really glorified in a Hollywood sense of hero comes in and saves the day, leaving the evil villains to burn in a giant overblown explosion that somehow doesn't deafen him or send him flying as he's walking away from it in slow motion. No, it's more of a quiet act of retribution. Stallone's never been better, and with the way he's going with his career choices these days, I doubt he'll ever be this good again. "},{"Title":"Sylvester Stallone's best movie with a top notch all star cast","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land is a definite change of direction for Sylvester Stallone, famously known for action movies such as the Rocky movies, the Rambo movies, Cobra, Tango and Cash, and Cliffhanger. Although Cop Land received a lot of good reviews, Sylvester Stallone never got the recognition he deserved for his role. Sylvester Stallone was often much maligned in his attempts to branch out from his action roles and his attempts at comedy such as Oscar and Stop! Or My Mum Will Shoot met with unsuccessful results, both commercially and critically. As evidenced in Cop Land, Sylvester Stallone shows audiences that he can act in a dramatic performance, and do it very well in the right movie.Sylvester Stallone plays against type as a mild mannered, partly deaf, overweight and slightly slow but good hearted Sheriff named Freddy Heflin who lives in a small town Garrison, New Jersey opposite New York City just across from the Hudson River. Freddy Heflin always aspired to join the New York Police Department however following an incident in which he rescued Liz Randone (Annabella Sciorra) after she became trapped after her car ran off a bridge and plunged into the river. As a result, he became deaf in one ear which ruled him ineligible to join the NYPD. In Garrison, a majority of the New York Police Officers who are corrupt live in Garrison and unofficially rule the town.When off duty police officer Murray Superboy Babitch (Michael Rapaport) shoots and kills two unarmed teenagers under the influence of drugs after a failed traffic stop when he mistakes a steering wheel lock for a firearm, his influential uncle Lieutenant Ray Donlan (Harvey Kietel) attempts to cover up the shooting by planting a weapon in the teenagers' car and faking Superboy Babitch's suicide. Other corrupt police officers assisting with the cover up include Jack Rucker (Robert Patrick), Leo Crasky (John Spencer), and Frank Lagonda (Arthur J. Nascarella).Internal Affairs Lieutenant Moe Tilden (Robert De Niro) is assigned to investigate the shooting and in his quest aims to uncover the deeply rooted corruption within the NYPD with possible mob connections which leads him to investigate the NYPD officers including Ray Donlan living in Garrison. Lieutenant Tilden tries to enlist Sheriff Freddy Heflin to help him with his investigation but Freddy is very reluctant to betray the NYPD officers whom he looks up to. Despite the fact most of the NYPD officers including Ray Donlan treat Freddy condescendingly, his only real friend out of the NYPD officers is the troubled, morally conflicted and coked-out Gary Figgsy Figgs (Ray Liotta). When the Internal Affairs investigation stalls, it is up to Freddy Heflin to stand up to the corrupt officers and track down Superboy Babitch before the corrupt officers find him and kill him.Rounding out the brilliant all star cast includes the abusive, abrasive and unfaithful husband of Liz Randone fellow police officer Joey Randone (Peter Berg, who would later go on to be a well known director), Garrison deputies Bill Geisler (Noah Emmerich) and Cindy Betts (Janeane Garofalo), Rose Donlan (Cathy Moriarty, known for her role as Jake La Motta's wife in Raging Bull), PDA President Vincent Lassaro (Frank Vincent, known for his role as the ill fated Billy Batts in Goodfellas) and in a small role Bomb Squad officer Berta (Edie Falco, who would later go on and star as Carmela Soprano in The Sopranos). Tony Sirico (famously known as Paulie in The Sopranos) appears in a photo only as Toy Torillo but does not have any speaking parts.Cop Land also introduced director James Mangold to Hollywood and would later go on to direct Girl, Interrupted, Walk the Line, 310 to Yuma and The Wolverine.In some ways, the film feels like a modern day Western in which the main character does nothing but sit idly until he must stand tall against the bad guys, fight back and become the hero of the day by getting his man.Besides the Rocky and Rambo movies, Cop Land is Sylvester Stallone's best movie and without a doubt his most memorable role. It was a total shame his career was in limbo for 8 years with a string of box office flops such as Get Carter (2000), Driven (2001), and D-Tox (2002) before his career was resurrected with Rocky Balboa (2006), Rambo (2008), and The Expendables (2010). Robert De Niro, Harvey Kietel, Ray Liotta, Robert Patrick and Michael Rapaport are great value and for all of them, this movie is a career highlight.It is a shame Cop Land never got the recognition it deserved, particularly for Sylvester Stallone however it's good to see the movie received a lot of high praise. I'm also glad to see that Cop Land is still a very memorable and enjoyable movie that continues to live on today, and rightfully so.9/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Besides his signature movie Rocky, This may be Stallone's best movie. In this movie he shows he can act even if his character is low key. The story is great and the movie keeps you interested all the way through. He has an all star cast and there isn't one bad bit of acting. In fact DeNiro, Liotta, and Keitel were also excellent in this. It is hard to believe this movie has a 6.9 rating. I would think anything over 7 at least. A highly recommended must see. It's hard to believe it's been 17 years since I first saw this and this movie still holds water. Solid acting and great story. I hate having to post 10 lines to sib it a review. Sorry, had to say it in order to round out my review. "}{"Title":"A highlight in 90's crime drama","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (72%) One of Stallone's best performances featured in this star-studded modern-day classic police movie. Sly gives a great subtle performance playing a heavily stepped on and taken for granted sheriff, and as he's alongside a great solid cast this makes what could have been a quite generic and forgettable movie into something that will quite honestly stand the test of time. Despite this being very much a cop movie in all actuality it has more in common with a well crafted western, with different shades of grey surrounding each character, and with its plot based on redemption and people doing the right thing when it is needed most. A must watch for crime movie fans. "},{"Title":"Stallone surprises everyone with some serious acting chops","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" COPLAND has a way of sneaking up from behind and commanding your attention. The movie features a top-notch corruption story, where the NYPD blue fraternity can't be trusted and the burden of justice falls to a milquetoast Jersey sheriff. It's a thoroughly gripping crime drama with amazing performances from just about everybody (even Janeane Garofalo). This is a bulletproof cast (no pun intended), but it's Sylvester Stallone with the award-worthy performance; one that's low-key and subdued, but makes that character live and breathe. It's actually kind of a shock to see the man with such a disheveled appearance, this meek role is very unusual. You spend a good deal of time wanting this guy to finally stand up and do something; and when he does, it's a beautiful thing to watch Sly rain down vengeance and justice on these bastards. It's one hell of a payoff befitting one hell of a movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Deeply Engrossing Thriller","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a sorely underrated film on IMDb! Cop Land is one of Sylvester Stallone's best films and performances! When I first saw Cop Land I wanted to see it only because Sly Stallone was was in the starring role . I had not a clue as to who else was casted in the film nor did I care at the time. All I knew is that I wanted to see Stallone in a dramatic role as a cop and so I did. This is one of those films I figured that I would like somewhat but never knew the film was going to blow-my-mind - it's good! It quickly became a favorite movie for me.I found Cop Land to be an excellent thrill-riding action-packed drama that is good enough to keep almost anyone deeply engrossing in the film.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"A fine thriller","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Copland is a slowly paced story that although may lack the massive thrills some other films promise, you still get a smartly written story intertwined with some vicious characters and a small town Cop that just want's some justice and respect in his community. The story as I say is smartly done and can be very much enjoyed(I mean that in the way that it is interesting more than fun). Stallone's character seems composed and I felt he knew what he was doing even when the cards are against him it seemed, but yes all round the story is good and I think this film is underrated as I have seen some say it is just Stallone walking around a lot, it it much more than that.The Director James Mangold well to say this his first punt at directing it goes down very well and expectant things were thought of him, now whether not he ever did do better it doesn't matter because this film is a solid kind of good film. I particularly liked the script as without it the film would have crashed, thoroughly written well and seemed to match each character perfectly which I guess goes to who ever cast such actors.Stallone and Keitel are the stars in truth of this and they perform well throughout the entire film, now with Keitel it is maybe known for him to do such things but Stallone is playing in a slightly subdued role from some of his others and we really see the range of which he can act and that he doesn't require violence in every film he's in. A mention to one of the best that is Robert De Niro who plays his character with mystery and intrigue who knows something is wrong before we seem to know.It is not without it's criticisms as it can seem to lack revelations, you know what the deal of the film is and who is bad and good within the first quarter of the film, but we don't get shocks and I felt there was space for such things. I also will say that although it is thrilling, the thrill side is more Drama than action and well I say this to anyone who wants' to see it, don't expect loads of action from this.The most memorable thing about this film to be fair is Stallone's performance in a light role but also I thought a lot about the mystery surrounding it not finding out who is bad but the mystery of saying to yourself how will it all end, you won't predict it all because just as you think the film is ending it throws a curveball and put's you off course, just watch it and you will definitely see what I mean by that.So overall a good film and moving upwards towards being very good rather than falling to being just pretty good, I recommended this for any person who enjoys a good police drama with just a little action dabbled in. People expect too much of Stallone action wise well don't I mean as I say he is subdued and is basically in invisible chains in this from breaking free and killing Keitel's character right where he stood.Overall give it a Solidly Good film rating and moving towards being very good indeed as well, I suggest renting it or whatever you can do to see this, but have a look and see and I feel you will enjoy it, well maybe. "},{"Title":"An underrated cop drama with a stellar cast.","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land (1997) is a crime drama that is directed by James Mangold and stars Sylvester Stallone, Harvey Keitel, Robert De Niro, and Ray Liotta. It takes place in a small town of New Jersey. Sylvester Stallone plays sheriff Freddy Heflin who wanted to become a cop, but couldn't due to the incident that caused one of his ears deaf. There is corruption going on where crooked cops have mob connections. Moe Tilden (Robert De Niro) is an Internal Affairs officer who is investigating the case and asks Freddy for his help. Freddy at first is reluctant, but later comes to suspect that Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel) might be one of the cops who is corrupt. He is then forced to make a dangerous choice between protecting his idols or upholding the law. Crime dramas are some of my favorite genre of film. I have always liked this film and enjoyed this film for its good writing, competent direction, and superb cast. One of the main reasons why I really like this film is because this movie makes a good point that nobody is above the law. No matter how much power you may have the law will always get to you. Also, it teaches you about doing what's right. James Mangold has written and directed this film. As far as his films go, this is in my opinion his best film he had directed. Mostly why I really like this film so much is it is filled with a wonderful cast. When you have Stallone, Keitel, De Niro, and Liotta in a film, you just cannot refuse that offer. Ray Liotta is good in his performance as Figsy, but out of the four actors he is my least favorite. Harvey Keitel is superb as a crooked cop Ray Donlan. Robert De Niro as Moe Tilden doesn't have a lot of screen time, but when he appears on screen, he is wonderful. Last but not least, I have to talk about Sylvester Stallone. I am a huge fan of Stallone and I have always felt that Stallone is often overlooked when it comes to his acting. For those people who think Stallone cannot act, watch this film. This movie shows that he can be a capable actor when his role is under good direction and writing. Freddy Heflin is a character you sympathize with right away due to the fact that he is treated very poorly by other cops. He deserved at least a nomination for his performance. Outside the lead actors, the supporting cast is filled with many familiar faces. A lot of them you either know or have seen from other films. Cop Land is a wonderful crime drama that features a superb cast, competent direction, and writing. I feel that this is an extremely overlooked film that deserves more recognition. If you like crime dramas then this might interest you. 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"So Much Better Than I Expected","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've been tempted to see this movie for years due to the praise Stallone got for his performance. But I never got around to watching it until last night. I expected a somewhat typical crime movie, which it's not. Now, it's one of my favorite pictures.Some reviewers describe Stallone's character, Freddy Heflin, as dumb. I'm not so sure about that. I see this character as someone who knows how easy it is to suffer a great loss in a matter of minutes. He fears losing his undemanding but demeaning job as sheriff in a town with many cops as residents where he gets no respect and is expected to let the cops do as they please. He is a man paralyzed by fear. As a younger man, he saved a beautiful young woman from drowning with a heroic act that cost him all of his hearing in one ear. This has left him cautious and reluctant to throw what's left of his humble little world away. What makes this film so powerful is how easy it is for most of us to relate to Freddy's situation. Who doesn't have to play along to get along--even at the cost of losing self-respect.Even Robert De Niro's Internal Affairs cop, a brassy self-assured dude himself, has to back down when the situation calls for it.Stallone makes the right choice and holds back, letting of buy into his very cautious character. All around him, the bad boys are just that--arrogant, greedy, corrupt cops. Freddy's tentative manner emphasizes how cocky the others are. The movie opens with a fresh, unexpected kind of kick-start for a crime movie. And that early event drives the plot to the very end. Suffice it to say this isn't a typical crime movie about who gets the big stash of money or drugs or anything else. I highly recommend you see it. "},{"Title":"The last of this great genre and has quickly become an under-rated classic","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Years ago I watched Copland and I don't even remember what I thought of it. In my effort to watch all of Stallone's great films (because I adore the man) I stopped on Copland. I know that people now have come around a lot and decided this was an incredibly under-appreciated film and performance by Stallone and I for one agree. Copland is very much in the vein of films like Heat, The Godfather, Goodfellas (never much cared for that film though) and other old school classic crime films and this one focuses on a group of very dirty cops who run their own breed of organized crime. The main plot is a little cumbersome but fortunately the stellar cast and side plots make this a completely riveting drama. Many of the performances aren't exactly in your face brilliant but instead its the quiet subtle things that grow on you about this sleepy little town built by these cops. Everything culminates into this brilliantly shot end sequence that is blood soaked and completely jaw dropping. There is just this distinctive style and the entire film is punctuated by what many agree is Stallone's best performance. I personally wouldn't call this his best performance but it is absolutely his most unique.Sylvester Stallone packed on the pounds to play Freddy Hefflin. I wondered while watching this why it mattered for him to be paunchy and overweight but I think it was more about him being someone different other than just Stallone. Whether you like the guy or not you can't deny his incredible chemistry when he is on screen. He is a larger than life star and in order to pull off this role he needed to be far more subtle and not in your face and he does it perfectly. He is shy, slow moving, seemingly dim-witted but as the story unfolds you will see he is anything but. Stallone's Hefflin has simply become complacent with what is happening in his town and what has happened to him. His character is incredibly complex and I think you can really dissect Freddy and see the layers to this performance. Stallone is terrific and you have never seen him like this before or since. This supporting cast is amazing. Harvey Keitel is perfect (if not just a little predictable) as the head of the crooked cops. He runs the town any way he wants because everyone looks up to him. He does things his way. Keitel couldn't be a better fit for the role and I love the scenes with him and Stallone. I actually thought this was also one of Ray Liotta's best scenes as a crack addicted, disgraced officer who wants to break free of the crooked cops. Liotta is terrific and has some truly great scenes. I like him usually but this was a great role for him. I would never say anything bad about Robert DeNiro, I like watching him in anything but his role as IA officer Moe Tilden is achingly small and the part is actually very important to the story so it is great to see him in the film but in a very, very small way. Robert Patrick also has a very small role but somehow more significant and he is always great at being sleazy and awful as Keitel's right hand man. Michael Rapaport is decent but his part is completely predictable and very stereotypical but he does the part well enough. Also watch for solid performances by Janeane Garofalo, Peter Berg and Noah Emmerich.Director and writer James Mangold has done some great stuff. Its only been in the last few years has failed to impress me with Knight and Day and most recently the awful Wolverine film. This was one of his first films and I think his schtick is terrific crime thrillers like this. He has a gritty style and the story is easy to follow but weaves some definitively complex characters. I think the film could use just a little more polishing and there were a few errors when it comes to pacing but the film is definitely well made and fascinating to watch. For Stallone and Liotta and even a few of the others this is a huge departure in what they would normally do and they all do it well. Mangold does deserve kudos for having a truly outstanding ensemble cast and keeping those egos in check so that no one is overbearing in the cast. Everyone does their role well and this is definitely one to check out for something a little different in the crime thriller genre. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Cop Land is a well-made police thriller, with a exceptional cast","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone have been known in the 70's and 80's as a standard, macho action guy. His roles were ones that movie audience will love. Whether it's the down and out boxer Rocky Balboa, or the energizing Vietnam veteran hero John Rambo, Stallone takes the cake. But in the 90's, Stallone's roles made him go into a downward spiral. Some of those examples are The Specialist, Judge Dredd and Assassins. Those movies weren't for him. His role in Demolition Man was good, but nowhere as near good as Rocky or Rambo. In Cop Land, Stallone leads a very good and well-acted cast. In the film, Stallone plays a half-deaf New Jersey sheriff, who works in the small town of Garrison, New Jersey. One night, a murder occurs on the George Washington Bridge that involves two black motorists and one New York cop. When the I.A. director, played by Robert De Niro, starts to investigate the case, he realizes that there are other cops involved in this murder case. But, these cops are corrupt and they will do anything to cover-up the murder. In fact, the cop who's responsible for the murder fakes his death. When Stallone's character confronts one of those cops in a bar, he lays out the law and tells him that he'll do anything to uphold the law in his town. Cop Land includes some of the best actors working in our industry today. The cast also includes Harvey Keitel, who plays one of the corrupt cops and the leader, Robert Patrick, and Ray Liotta. The thing that I liked about Cop Land is the cast. This is a perfect line-up of actors, who are playing exceptional characters. Characters that are warped into a similar plot, but nevertheless, riveting. It is not necessarily Scorsese material, but Cop Land deserves the reputation of being a very good police thriller. As for Stallone, this is a comeback for him. He is finally given a role that perfectly fits him. He also give a very fine performance as well.  1/2 3 1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Sufferin succotash ! Sylvester can act !","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have watched a lot of movies, probably not too unlike a lot of us on here. I don't discriminate, from Hollywood blockbusters to obscure foreign titles, I love them all, but for some reason or another this is the only movie that has compelled me to write a review ! I pulled out Copland from my movie library as I hadn't seen it for many years and suddenly just remembered how good I had thought it was. Containing a stellar cast, the movie itself is very undervalued in my humble opinion, I mean the genre has been done to death, but the movie has a certain ambiance I just can't put my finger on, maybe the setting of the small town in the shadow of the big smoke is just something I like, who knows. But Stallone was absolutely great in this movie, as he had been in Rocky, another brilliant film that the genre has been done to death, and Rambo. I think Stallone gets a bad wrap sometimes, granted he has done some pretty average films, but he has some talent, it's a narrow typecast, but still. I just had a quick look, he won the Best Actor award at the Stockholm film festival for this role haha. Anyway, just my two cents worth. If you like Stallone & you have not seen this, for mine, it's one of his best and a very decent movie to boot. "},{"Title":"One of Stallone's Best...","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land is your classic morality tale surrounding police, their ties to the criminal underworld and their struggle to avoid Internal Affairs from the point of view of small town sheriff, played by Sylvester Stallone. It's not really your standard issue cop film like The Curroptor or anything of that kind. Cop Land focuses more on the drama and characters and leaves the shooting for the last 10 minutes.Stallone really shines in Cop Land with his very subtle and wonderfully underplayed performance as the small town sheriff. It's easily one of his better performances up there with First Blood and Rocky. I'm very sad that Stallone never really did any dramatic work beside few films. He is a very capable actor, despite what many people thinks of him. The supporting cast is from top to bottom excellent. We have Robert De Niro, Harvey Keitel, Robert Patrick, Ray Liotta to name a few. It's all around a solid cast with very good actors doing what they do best.Where the Cop Land slightly falls flat is the script. There are many subplots that are unresolved, sometimes the melodrama takes over and just bizarre scenes happen out of nowhere. It's not a convoluted mess, but a more focus would have helped the overall narrative. Everything surrounding Liz character was left unresolved which did bother me a lot since her subplot was essential to the Stallone's character. It just felt that adding 20 minutes to the runtime would have made it better.As for everything else, it's fine. The shooting is bloody with nice fake blood, in strip bars there actual nudity and the men swear like real men. Cop Land just feels like a film made for adults not for that PG-13 crowd. It's nowhere near as good looking as Friedkin's or Michael Mann's films or even Scorcese's work, but it's well shot and has a nice feel to it. If you like cop films that offer more than just criminals getting shot or scenery chewing villains, Cop Land is just for you. It's well made, well acted cop film which prefers characters and drama over explosions and carnage. And if you want to see Stallone acting opposite some great talent. "}{"Title":"Stallone returns to his roots","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone returns to the more gritty character kind of roles he had earlier in his career. In the late '70's and early '80's prior to doing the Rambo type of movies Sylvester Stallone was more then just an action movie star. Back when he did the first 2 Rocky movies, F.I.S.T. and movies like that his movies had a lot more depth to him then when he was doing shallower less challenging roles like Tango & Cash, Judge Dredd, Demolition Man. Not to say I didn't enjoy those movies of his but they're not really movies you say, wow that was that was a great acting performance.In Cop Land, Stallone isn't afraid of losing a few ego points from playing an out of shape small town cop who's half deaf.The movie also has a great supporting cast with the likes of Harvey Keitel, Robert DeNiro and Ray Liotta, amongst others. This is the first time that acting legends like DeNiro and Liotta were in the same movie since Taxi Driver. "},{"Title":"The Only Good Cop Is A Bad Cop","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Garrison, N.J., is a haven for cops - lots of cops. We are led to believe this idyllic town was created, and for the most part funded, by the Mob so that NYC cops could live a life isolated from the daily crime ridden day-to-day reality of the Big Apple.But even fairy tale towns need a sheriff, and this town's sheriff is none other than Sylvester Stallone. A seemingly meek turn the other cheek kind of guy just trying to do his best. A sort of country bumpkin kind of guy.The town's past is sordid. Strange things happened to cops that live in Garrison. As the story progresses, strange things continue to happen to cops who don't toe the line and fall out of favor with the ruling clique run by Harvey Keitel.I liked this movie. It is a bit slow at times, but the story is unique enough to keep you interested and performances by the main characters are, by and large, quite good.Give it a try - it is worth your time. "},{"Title":"A Pretty Good Crime-Drama Film","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The cops working in New York City don't want their families growing up there so they move them across the George Washington Bridge into the small town of Garrison, New Jersey. The local sheriff, Freddy Heflin (Sylvester Stallone) goes about his business totally unaware that bad cops, led by Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel), have sold out to the mob and look the other way while certain crimes are being committed in New York. Unfortunately, some of the problems associated with these corrupt cops begins to take root in Garrison as well. Most notably, a cop named Murray Babitch (Michael Rapaport) who accidentally kills two young black men and has faked his suicide but is being hidden in Garrison by Ray Donlan. However, when the investigation begins to interfere with Ray Donlan's operation the decision is made to have Murray killed. When Sheriff Heflin becomes aware of this he has to take matters into his own hands and that means crossing Ray Donlan and the rest of the crooked cops living in his town. There are several subplots involved but rather than get into all of them I'll just say that this is an enjoyable film that captures both the local town setting and the big metropolis right across the Hudson River. Sylvester Stallone does an excellent job as the honest but slow-witted sheriff. I also liked the performance of Robert De Niro as the Internal Affairs officer, Moe Tilden and Ray Liotta as one of the crooked cops named Gary Figgis who just wants out. In short, if a person is looking for a pretty good crime-drama film, then this should definitely be considered. "},{"Title":"Stallone Excels In A Dramatic Feature And Non-Traditional Action Film","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land is a crime drama that features an ensemble cast featuring Sylvester Stallone, Janine Garofalo, Harvey Keitel, Robert De Niro, Ray Liotta, Michael Rapaport, Robert Patrick, Peter Berg, Arthur Nascarella, and John Spencer.It is written and directed by James Mangold. The is about Freddy Heflin(Stallone), the much-denigrated sheriff of tiny Garrison, NJ, a community which -- thanks to a technicality -- is populated almost entirely by members of the New York City Police Department. When young cop Murray Superboy Babitch (Rapaport) becomes embroiled in a controversial shoot-out which leaves two black youths dead, he apparently commits suicide rather than face the wrath of an official investigation. In reality, however, he flees to safety back home in Garrison. In the wake of the controversial events, NYPD Internal Affairs lieutenant Moe Tilden (De Niro) arrives in Garrison to uncover the truth, attempting to enlist Freddy to help watch the watchmen, including Superboy's uncle, veteran cop Ray Donlan (Keitel); coked-out Gary Figgis (Liotta); and Joey Randone (Berg), the husband of the woman (Sciorra) Freddy loved and lost. A rich, complex film about redemption despite being too simplistic in its good-guys/bad-guys approach to morally and emotionally ambiguous material.Stallone tries to prove his worth as an actor in a dramatic feature - far from the action films that he is used to doing for box office purposes.Take note that he gained 40 pounds the role of Heflin and not the muscles required to the films like Rocky and Rambo.And he definitely does not disappoint as he gives his best performance ever as an actor - even better than his Oscar nominated role for Rocky I. And playing along side De Niro and Keitel even proved that he definitely could act. Watch him play in a role of a non-traditional action flick is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable police thriller","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Between the period making Rocky V and Rocky Balboa Sylvester Stallone struggled how to defy himself as an actor, making a range of movies from Cliffhanger to Get Carter to Stop or Mum Will Shoot. Cop Land is easily the best quality film in this period.The town of Garrison, New Jersey is a town build for NYPD officers to escape New York life. Freddy Heflin (Sylvester Stallone) is the sheriff of the town who is friends with many of the cops in the town. But he is also a man who wanted to be one of the them, but can't because of an injury he received when he was a teenager.In New York a young hero cop Murray Superbad Babitch (Michael Rapaport) ends up killing two African-American teens after they shoot his car. Fearing that he was going to be arrested and be considered responsible for a racist incident Murray fakes his death thanks to his corrupt uncle Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel).Internal Affair officer Lt. Moe Tilden (Robert De Niro) is assigned the cast to investigate the crime and suspects major links between Ray and Mafia. He tries to get Freddy on side but Freddy is torn between his duties as an officer and his loyalty to his friends.Writer/Director James Mangold fit's a lot of story and subplots in a 1 hour 45 minute package. If anything he is a bit too ambitious for its own good. At times it felt like he was adapting a novel but had to cut some stuff to make the film fit. In a way it meanders a little bit. But for the most part Mangold makes sure that Cop Land was interesting, fast paced thriller that does not treat the audience like an idiot, even if it does have a few clich moments and focused dialogue.Cop Land has a great cast and Stallone shows he can act very well when required. He physically is not his muscular as he normally is, having a beer belly and looking more like typical middle-age man just past his prime. It was one of his most grounded performance from him which worked and he should do serious roles where he can show he can act. The rest of the cast is solid throughout, particularly from De Niro and Keitel who are top actors and Mangold does get performances from his actors.Howard Shore provides an excellent, bass scores that is fitting the film, but this is what you would expect from the guy who gave us the music for Lord of the Rings and it was shot very much like other 90s thrillers like Heat.Cop Land is a solidly entertaining film that fans of thrillers. It is worth checking out. "},{"Title":"a solid stallone thriller with a brilliant cast, a great movie","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" cop land is not a stallone action picture like 'first blood' or 'cobra', but it is a great cop thriller about corruption in new jersey, it has a great cast including harvey kietel, robert de niro and ray liotta. and while they have all been in better movies, they all do good in there roles, and for the most part the acting is top notch, and stallone gives a very good yet subtle performance, a far cry from his action persona. and even though it shouldn't work, the movie does, and its great, its got a great script, and is well directed. its easy to see why this movie wasn't a hit when it came out, but the years have been kind to cop land, and now its finally getting recognised as a solid cop picture, i recommend cop land "},{"Title":"Still good on a second go","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first watched this when it was relatively new, in the 90's or early 00's. I have a vague memory that this was the time when independent productions or movies with an independent feel raised their head. Could be that I was just gaining interest in such movies back then. For any reason, this movie really struck me as a near perfect drama movie back then.Having watched it again recently, it was pretty much as good as I remembered. It's quite strange that it hasn't gained more of a classic status or better score here on IMDb. Afterall it's got amazing cast and performance by Stallone is just plain great. Not just great for Stallone, but great for anyone. I'm still surprised that he didn't get a nomination for his role.It's been said that the story is not as tight as it could be, and it's somewhat true. I don't know if it needs to be any tighter tho. The whole movie has a mellow, yet intense feel to it, it's just pleasure to watch the acting. The story doesn't feel as important as the performances here. And the story is not bad by any means. After maybe ten years or so, I couldn't remember how it unfolded and I was gripped all the way.In a way this movie makes me sad that Stallone didn't pursue a different career. I've always felt he shouldn't be mixed with the other muscular action guys, but that's the image people have. Try suggesting your date you'll go watch a Stallone movie and see what happens.. It could be different. I wouldn't be surprised if many people overlook this gem because of the leading actor.A great movie. Definitely holds it's place in movie history if for nothing else, great direction and performances. "},{"Title":"Not your average Sylvester Stallone movie.","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is said to be Sylvester Stallone's first alternative movie. I do not think that Copland is an alternative movie, rather it is more of a mystery/drama, but it does turn away from the typical Hollywood action movie. Stallone plays a very different sort of cop in this movie, in fact he is referred to as a law enforcement officer, not a cop. Cops work in New York City, not Garrison New Jersey.Freddie Hassalan (Sylvester Stallone) dreamed of being a cop in New York City, but he severely injured his ear when he rescued a woman from drowning. He was left as a sheriff of a small town on the other side of the Hudson River in New Jersey. Fred lives in the shadow of New York, he is always looking over the river at the city and dreaming of working there, but this movie is of shattered dreams. He wanted to be a cop but has to live with being a small time sheriff; he wanted to marry the woman he saved, but was left single. Fred is a weak willed, deaf sheriff and is not the action hero that Stallone usually plays.A cop, nick named the super-boy because of his arrest record, is rammed by a couple of drugged out Negroes as he crosses the George Washington Bridge. He is a New York Cop but he lives in New Jersey for the reason that there he does not have to put up with the scum that live in the city. Super-boy chases this car and they point what he believes to be a gun at him, and he freaks out and shoots them, only to discover that it was a steering-wheel lock. Then it seems that he jumps off of the bridge committing suicide. Something similar happened a couple of years before when another cop was murdered in gaol after he was locked up for some event. It is commented that Super-boy doesn't trust the system so he takes the easy way out.Copland is named after the town of Garrison where all of the New York cops in a particular precinct live. Everything seems cool until the underlying corruption comes out. There is a lot of connections with the mob and it seems that Super-boy is not really dead. There is a problem internal affairs has no jurisdiction in New Jersey and thus these cops can play their games of corruption and they cannot be touched, and that is where Freddie comes in.Interesting movie as there is a constant contrast between Garrison and New York. Garrison is played out like a small country town and New York the big city. Even though they are next door, they are like two very different worlds. When Freddie comes into New York at the end of the movie, the contrast is picked up the most with his old car compared to the shiny new New York cop cars. This is to emphasise the dreams of Freddie to become a New York cop. Even though he sees and even exposes the corruption that flares around him, he still truly wants to be a cop in New York City. "},{"Title":"Underrestimated and underrated","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Had Silverster Stalone made a great movie after Rambo this would have been that movie. Had the director searched for the more suitable actor for the role of Frank, he wouldn't have found the better one than Silvester Stalone, I am very sure of that. Being involved in acting as an amateur for the last 30 years I can tell you that everyone who says that Sly is a terrible actor is wrong!! He is a great actor and a great film person! In this movie with his acting he puts in shadow greatness like Robert De Niro or Ray Liota, both amazing film values. We are talking about interesting drama plot which Stallone makes the most interesting by his movie appearance and film charm. What I love about him is his face and body talk. Considering the fact that he has beaten the face paralysis big time, I just say that I am amazed by him. Except Stalone, I loved acting of Harvey Keithel, so creepy and convincing and also of Robert De Niro - original and witty as always. As for directing I have to say that was a very good job! I love this movie and I give it the greatest rate. I think that it is pretty underestimated on this site. "},{"Title":"i gave a chance to be a cop and you blew it","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Finally a real stellar , an incredible performance after a long time by Mr Stallone we had been awaiting for so long to silence his critics. Even in the presence of guys like Robert d Niro and Harvey Kietel , Stallone himself proved his metal. Its like a good cop bad cop drama same like l.a confidential, internal affairs , dark blue and street kings. Stallone played n.y/n.j local sheriff along with Ray liotta , who are just trying to do their job while Harvey keitel with Robert Patrick are officers of state police who have their dark side as ties to the underworld and are doing the things in their own way but in a corrupt manner , the most interesting part is here the appearance of Robert De Niro as an internal affairs operative trying to find a solid clue to apprehend the crook officials and for this he even tries to join forces with Stallone. Stallone as Freddy Heflin had has problems with his hearing while attempting a failed rescue operation underwater. He is willing to be at state police force while he is also very disapproving of the activities of Ray played by Harvey Kietel but due to some old acquaintance and professional tradition he is keeping a silent profile but for how long. Now if you talk about the movie here i believe Stallone really looked cool with his rare seen talent of acting only i had seen in FIST. The other thing which was most inspiring was Robert De niro. I really liked it and loved it , now i wish to see Stallone more in such roles. "}{"Title":"Underrated to say the least","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can see this one with a little bit better ratings than it has. At least it deserves it imo. It was definitely worth its 2 hours of time.To start off, Liotta and Stallone are the stars of this one....Hands down. Keitel and Deniro aren't in it enough to get high praise. Ray Liotta got all the lines and Stallone played..well...Stallone...in a dramatic role. To me Stallone has 3 films he can stand by when he gets done with acting...Rocky...Rambo...Cop Land. Why Cop Land? Well...cause it's easily his best dramatic role and it's in a darn good film. Not everyone was ready to see Stallone in a dramatic role but I think by this time his career was on fumes. I read somewhere where he said this film ruined his career for 8 years. Couldn't get any roles. I think at this time eh was pretty much washed up to film goers and this was a last gasp. To blame this film on his lack of roles, I think he should re-watch it and see that he did a good job.Ray Liotta is one of those actors that's criminally overlooked. He's done so many good dramatic roles that I think that he just mixes in with what's out there now and you don't get to see him anymore. With anything worthwhile anyhow. His lines are the best in this film. His hyper personality and down on his luck persona in this one just flat out works.Don't see this one just for the all star cast. See it for Liotta and Stallone's performances. They really are stellar in this little gem. "},{"Title":"quietly solid","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought Copland would've been a much bigger hit than it was, but that's not to detract from what a solid film this was. Of course it has star power like Stallone(best performance since 1981's Nighthawks), DeNiro, Keitel(plays a great bad guy), and a great performance from Ray Liotta, whom I rarely seen since, but I digress; I also enjoyed Robert Patrick's performance as a dirty cop and his scenes were mainly entertaining. Cathy Moriarty, Jeanine Garofalo, Peter Berg, and Michael Rapaport round out a very solid and professional cast and most of them have important scenes. I won't explain the plot, as you'll probably know it by now, but let me add that I was hardly bored throughout the movie, and the atmosphere of a tiny city against the backdrop of a big one worked for me, as the setting was almost flawless; throw in a few Springsteen tunes from the River(1980)for added measure and we have a very good film that's often forgotten. Perhaps the cowboy ending was a bit unrealistic(as was Freddy telling Ray when he's taking Murray to the authorities at 6am), but overall this film's a winner. "},{"Title":"Watch it, or watch it again if you already have.","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film when it came out and thought it was a decent/average film. Although, I did think it was a bit of a waste of such a good cast and lacked the gravitas I had hoped for.I just watched it again and either I was a stupid kid or I'm just a slightly smarter adult. This is a decent film. It has its flaws but at its heart is a very good, solid story, well told with accomplished acting. As the film finished I wondered what it was I had missed on my original viewing. I think it is the film's subtlety. Also, what was it that I hadn't liked? I think it was the film's lack of sheen. Let me explain that last point first. It is well edited, the pacing is good and I think the directing is very adept. But the cinematography seems a little off. Perhaps it was a stylistic approach but the lighting was bland and at times felt like a made-for-television movie. I understand the beiges and muted blues when Tilden is on screen as they are trying to show the difference between a real cop (terrible moustache and all) and the sharp suited Donlan. However, you can still achieve cinematic beauty with drabness and soft colours (Godfather, Deer Hunter, even Leon). The landscape (urban or otherwise) was never dramatic or had a real sense of scale for me. I am not saying that the filmmakers were wrong for making these choices but it may explain why it never reached the celebrated heights of other films in its genre or drew me in back then.Now, as for the film's subtlety. It's a rare thing to see Stallone being subtle but perhaps that's what makes his performance really excellent. His warm smile and mildly perplexed demeanour are charming and compelling. Shouting or screaming your way through a film is easy. Watching someone underplaying a role is like being whispered to by someone in a conversation. It makes you lean in, listen more intently and take more note of what is being said. Ray Liotta deserves mentioning here as he seems genuinely troubled. He's not the simple junkie coward or hard-nosed, world-wary cop. He has many things going on and his redemption is almost as important as Freddy's. It is also worth noting that the costume department were very accurate and didn't mind making the actors look unkempt, overweight or just plain sleazy.Before this becomes an essay I shall try and sum up why I have changed my mind about this film. I wanted it to be Goodfellas, Serpico and Touch of Evil all in one when I went to the flicks to see it the first time round. Having now seen films like The Departed, L.A. Confidential and others which were also decent but disappointing, I think I have come to appreciate this film's efforts. I originally watched it expecting to be impressed and this time around just expected to be entertained. I was more than entertained, I was taken with the film's nuances and the main actor's delicate handling of roles we have all seen before slip into clich.The whole film can be summed up in one of Tilden's lines I look at you sheriff and I see a man who is waiting for something to do and here I am. Here I am saying 'sheriff I got something for you to do'. "},{"Title":"Underrated thriller features one of Stallone's best roles.","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Freddy Helfin (Sylvester Stallone) is a small town sheriff in Garrison, New Jersey. Where all the big-time Police Officers and Detectives lives. Garrison is a seemingly peaceful town until an young detective Murray Superboy Babitch (Michael Rapaport) accidentally killed two African Americans on the bridge on the way to Garrison. Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel) decides to fake the death of Superboy to get him out of trouble. But Freddy is been looking the other way too often and he is slowly getting tired of the corruption in this small town. But an dedicated Internal Affairs officer (Two Time Oscar-WinnerRobert De Niro) tries to stop the corruption in Garrison with the help of Freddy. But Freddy isn't quite ready to stop his supposedly loyal friends and police officers.Written and Directed by James Mangold (Heavy, Identity, Walk the Line) made an entertaining, suspense-thriller. Stallone is excellent in a underrated performance. Although an minor box office success, Cop Land manages to have an cult following. This movie has an strong supporting cast like Ray Liotta, Peter Berg, Janeane Garofalo, Robert Patrick, Annabella Sciorra, Noah Emmerich, Cathy Moriarty and more. This review is for the Director's Cut with 12 minutes of additional footage. Which this version has more character developments and now Cop Land it is an stronger movie.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an entertaining commentary by Writer/DirectorMangold, ProducerCathy Konrad and actors Stallone & Patrick. DVD also includes Deleted Scenes with optional commentary, an featurette and shout-out storyboard sequence. This is best performance, you will get to see from Stallone since Rocky and First Blood, don't miss it. Deborah Harry is featured in a cameo in the Director's Cut. One of the most underrated movies of the 1990's. Good music score by Howard Shore (Dogma, The Silence of the Lambs, Videodrome). (**** /*****). "},{"Title":"Gooo tooo luuunch!","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Freddy Heflin who was always admired by the New York cops wanted to become one, but because he was deaf in one ear this prevents him from achieving his goal, but has become sheriff of Garrison. Recently there have been a dark omen surrounding the New York cops, and Freddy is now investigating on this case, then Internal Affairs officer Mo Tilden is also on the case and asks Freddy for help, but Freddy could not. Now Freddy suspects that a New York cop named Ray Donlan might be one of the many cops who is corrupted by the mob and other criminals. Now, Freddy must find a cop who is nicknamed Superboy who can testify against Donlan and protect him, before Donlan finds super boy and kills him....This may be a clich, but this is really an acting tour de force for Stallone. He has really put his all into his role, and stands well against such talent as De Niro, Liotta and Kietel.Stallone spends the majority of the film bearing a plaster, pretty much like Nicholson did in Chinatown, but thats the only comparison these two films have. It's a slow burning movie about corruption, and surprisingly for a film so interesting, the story is pretty much in the back seat in favour of character development, which is rich and layered.Stallones character is pathetic, the epitome of the word loser, so the path to redemption is a long and hard one with many people to cross. Liotta appears to be his only friend, but then the saying 'with friends like these' springs to mind.Patrick and Berg are excellent, and Kietel is as always dependable, but De Niro lets the side down a little. He is good in his limited role, but then he relies on that trick he does in a few of his later films, he repeats a line over and over again. See the scene when they Close the Garrison case and count how many times he says 'go to lunch' and 'the case is closed'. Prime example.But you have to see this just for Stallone. For anyone who says 'oh he's just Rambo/Rocky' see this and think again.A wonderful little film. "},{"Title":"Could have been a classic!!","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I know this is not a brilliant film, but it is one of the few films where Stallone focuses on his acting and not his muscles. He even put on some weight for this film so he could play a fatty cop and only asked for a $60,000 wage instead of his usual $10,000,000!!! In my opinion this film could have been turned into a classic with the right director, like Martain Scorsese, who has previous work with most of the cast and would have put his style and skill into this film to make it good. Also the cast is brilliant with some of my personal favourites (Robert Di niro, Harvey Kietel) and the story is good but its just not directed well enough. To conclude, this is one of the only good acting roles Stallone has ever been in, (Rocky and Copland) I'm not saying Rambo, even though i love the first one, because he again doesn't show any spectacular acting in that, he only shoots loads of people. I give this film an 8 mainly because it could have got up to this and into the top 250 if it just had of been filmed better and also Stallone is brilliant in it and truly stands out in the film even though there is other actors in it who are a lot better than him! "},{"Title":"Fun to watch but clichd dialog and overacting","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a fun movie to watch, with crisp direction, lively acting, interesting stories and an exciting climax. There's some serious overacting, however, as well as some clichd dialog. I'm not sure if cops in real-life start screaming so frequently, like Ray Liotta's character does. The scenes where he screams In for a penny, in for a pound!, don't shut me out, Ray! don't shut me out! and the scene where he sticks the dart up Robert Patrick's nose are so overacted and overdone that they seem more like an acting class than anything else. They are fun to watch, in a certain sense, but too corny to be taken seriously. In addition, Robert DeNiro is encouraged to similarly overact in some of his scenes, and Harvey Keitel (as well as the usually excellent John Spencer) isn't far behind.On the plus side, the female characters are interesting, it's nice to see Stallone playing a more subtle character (even if he turns into the usual superhero character at the end) and the friendship between Liotta and Stallone has a feeling of genuine warmth and sincerity to it. Overall, a good movie, but too corny and overacted to be fully successful. "},{"Title":"Solid Cop Story","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Coming into this movie, I did not think it would be bad, but I was expecting a decent yet forgettable crime thriller that feels like one hundred movies that I have already seen. However, I was pleasantly surprised that this was not the case in that Cop Land did exceed my expectations. The story was a lot better than I thought it would be. I liked the cast and characters very much in this film. It was neat to see De Niro look so different for a role. Stallone's character was not the typical heroic cop character you normally get in movies such as this one. It is true that Stallone's character is a hero character, but this is achieved in more of a subtle way. Keitel, Liotta, and the rest of the cast do a good job with their respective roles as well. One problem that I had with this was that I got confused which characters were which on more than one occasion. Each cop was being referred to by his first name half the time and then by his last name the other half of the time. And there were so many characters that it was tough in, especially in the beginning. I liked the final scene and it was neat to follow Freddie along with his injury. Solid movie and good for a watch. "},{"Title":"A Decent Stallone Movie!","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Phil's Quick Capsule Review Copland is the film that should have made Stallone great again&#x85; well acted, expertly directed and compelling from start to finish. Then he went and made Detox. Sigh! Regardless this one IS worth watching. Best Bit The final shoot out. IMDb Rating 8/10Buy, Rent or Borrow BUY If you liked this try Heat (9/10); Leon (9/10); Collateral(8/10)Phil HobdenFor more reviews like this check outhttp//www.mod-life.net/modlife/index_ugly.htm "},{"Title":"Solid cop thriller","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's too easy to focus on Stallone's blubber gut, which he purposely gained to play the role of a small town New Jersey sheriff with a hearing problem in 1997's COP) LAND. But Stallone is simply a part of a terrific ensemble cast, in a story that has to do with incredible corruption in that small community, which is largely populated by cops and their families. Stallone takes on the whole mess of them before the movie ends. Harvey Keitel, Robert DeNiro and Ray Liotta are just some of the performers in this modestly budgeted crime drama. It feels real, and maybe it was based on a true event. Who knows? COP LAND was a very good film in 1997 and remains a very good film today. My hope is that everyone who missed it in the theater has been catching up with it on television or on DVD. I was fortunate enough to catch up with it again on SLEUTH recently. "}{"Title":"Solid Good Drama","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I found this movie very good entertainment. I admit I am not a big Stallone fan and basically can name on one hand less two fingers how many good movies I have seen him in but this is his best besides his breakout performance in the original Rocky. I found his playing against the his usual role of the superheros type great. He is aided by the fabulous Ray Liotta, Robert DeNiro, the vastly underrated Harvey Keitel and many others. The story was taut and refreshing and the pacing was quite good. It is nice to see a good drama with the this pacing and I was enthralled by it all. The only complaint about it was that it was just a bit too short to build up to the end. "},{"Title":"Excellent film. Stallone deserved an Oscar!","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone turns in an Academy Award-worthy performance in this top-notch cop thriller. The ensemble cast is perfect and the plot is tight and intriguing. Stallone gained 40 pounds of fat for the role and worked for a minimum SAG salary. The film was really overlooked by viewers and critics but Cop Land is an intense, realistic, and beautiful thriller. Liotta is excellent as the coked-out undercover cop and there is enough mystery to keep you guessing. The film has a modern western feel to it and director Mangold (310 to yuma, walk the line) steers the vehicle into legendary status! This is Stallone at his best. A must watch! "},{"Title":"Hollywood A-listers  in supporting roles to Sylvester Stallone?","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Why would a collection of Hollywood A-listers risk their reputations in supporting roles to Sylvester Stallone in this rather downbeat fairly modest movie? Because somehow they had recognised its quality even before a scene had been shot and backed it with their participation - even if a mass audience never did. The movie goes entirely against the flow and shows that less can be more. That a small incident can, with art, become of great significance. It is the story of the comfortable unremarkable domestic lives of NY cops. So comfortable that its OK for one of them to stagger drunk and incapable out of their local drinking/social club and be helped into his cop-car by a fellow officer only to crash it a few miles down the road. It doesn't matter, it'll get covered up, nobody's badly hurt. The officer concerned is a loser and a bit of a joke - nice guy but nobody takes him seriously. This is Stallone and his beat is the crime-free area where they all live and where nothing ever happens - they don't need a real cop and they don't have one. Just as well that he's so switched off - that way he doesn't know what they're really up to and wont interfere which is also nice and comfortable. Because they've all got comfortable lives, nice houses, and public respect - only little of this came deservedly or straightforwardly. And, rather than lose all this, they'd kill the innocent, even one of their own.The movie proceeds at first with a distinctly slow, lazy and comfortable pace but picks up speed via a series of sometimes head-jerking, revelations which gradually fill in the real story. If the ending is a reversion to type for Stallone, what precedes it certainly is not and is a measure of his commitment to the production. The A list cast knew what they were about when they signed up. "},{"Title":"This is hands down one of the most underrated movies out there","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Where do I start? Let me begin by telling you this is one the best movies I own. I've seen it on at least a dozen occasions and I enjoy it every time. Robert Deniro playing Moe Tilden is superb, from the bad cop haircut to the cheesy mustache....right on down to him complaining about not getting enough napkins in his sandwich bag, the whole act is 100% authentic. This is easily Stallone's finest moment...Philly, I don't care what you say, this was a better acting job then any Rocky movie. Lastly, can I get a standing ovation for a one Murray Superboy Babitch??? This was the most convincing role Michael Rappaport has given us ever. He was simply phenomenal in this role and deserves credit from here to eternity. All in all, the more you watch this flick, the more you realize its insane genius, and I recommend it to any fan of film art. "},{"Title":"strong cast with weak material","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Freddy Heflin is the disillusioned sheriff of a small, seemingly peaceful Jersey town conveniently located outside the jurisdiction of NYPD Internal Affairs where a number of big city cops make their homes. Although he idolizes them, Freddy suspects something is amiss after the alleged suicide of a young cop on the rise, and has his morale put to the test when he has to choose between upholding the law and keeping his mouth shut like usual. Good cop/bad cop thriller is made watchable by a dynamite cast, but has no energy, an inevitable (and unconvincing) climactic shootout, and exceeds its grasp by trying to turn a standard police conspiracy thriller into a poignant tale of morality and justice. For the most part it has the look and feel of an old TV cop show, which is too bad because there's a fine group of actors at work here. ** "},{"Title":"Cop Corruption, Cop Redemption","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Starring Sylvester Stallone, Harvey Keitel, Ray, Liotta, Robert DeNiro, Cathy Moriarity, Janeane Garafalo, Michael Rapaport, Annabella Sciorra. Great story of cop corruption and cop redemption. A small community on the other side of the G.W. Bridge out of New York is made up of nearly all NYPD. It's a self-defense thing that turns into self-interest. Their boot-lick sheriff (Stallone) is the perfect Do-nothing, Look-the-Other-Way lap dog. Then things get out of control. This is the ONLY film I can recall where I liked both the casting and the acting of Stallone. The other actors &#133; they're always good at what they do. This is a strong story, good photography, effective scoring, you name it. It's no quite up there with Serpico, but it's a good one. "},{"Title":"Cop Land (1997) **1/2","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I rented this movie mainly because I was interested in seeing a different approach to a character from Sylvster Stallone. In this regard I wasn't disappointed, because Sly gave a decent performance as a laid back and dispirited loner who always wanted to be a New York City cop but had to settle for becoming a sheriff in a small New Jersey town due to a hearing deficiency. When he was a youth he saved a girl from drowning in a car submerged in water, which was how he came by his misfortune. On the other side of the water in NYC, unscrupulous policemen lead by Harvey Keitel are not running the show honestly, and corruption is everywhere. They even try to cover for one of their own when he faces arrest, by pretending he committed suicide. While these cops work in NY, they mostly live in Jersey, where Stallone works. The cast is impressive -- aside from Keitel and Stallone, we also have Ray Liotta as a loose cannon, Robert Patrick as one of Keitel's deceiving accomplices, and Robert De Niro in a supporting part as an Internal Affairs agent who'd like to get Stallone's help in busting Keitel and his gang. The performances are strong enough, but unfortunately this isn't as good as it might have been, mainly because the story often lacks clarity and meanders every which way with too many distracting subplots. It doesn't allow the viewer to keep focused. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Rambo strikes again!!!","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" COP LAND 1997 (SYLVESTER STALLONE, HARVEY KEITEL, RAY LIOTTA, ROBERT DE NIRO) DIRECTED BY JAMES MANGOLD ~ THE RUNDOWN A great and under-appreciated film showcasing excellent character development and quite worthy of its cast. ~ Yeah, the cast is brilliant, especially Stallone in a role pivotal to his career and De Niro whose efforts are concentrated into a small but flawless supporting role - what's more important here, though, is that the cast isn't just for fluff but rather complements a powerful story with real drama. Admittedly so, the script does seem to lose its focus at times when you find yourself unsure who, what and where you're rooting for, but things tighten up in time for an immensely satisfying climax starring John J. himself. It's also important to at least mention the fact that this is a tale woven soundly with metaphor, both on a grand level and a more specified level for the characters we are allowed to get to know. And, guess what, setting everything aside, this film thoroughly entertains! There are more than a couple classic scenes, some subtly hilarious and others truly moving and all meeting either a Scorsese-like or Rambo/Dirty Harry level of quality. ~ 'Copland' may be just a little contrived and the soundscore sucked more monkey balls than Rambo III, but, hell, it struck a chord with me, a chord that doesn't ring too often. "},{"Title":"Great movie, just watched it on TNT","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a great movie. I've seen it numerous times. I love the actors they have in it, Deniro, Stallone, Liotta, Keitel. I only wish Deniro would have gotten more air time because he really did a great job and I am a big fan of his, great actor. Stallone did a great acting job too as the soft spoken sheriff. And Ray Liotta also a good actor, loved him in Goodfellas. Harvey Keitel was great too, I've seen him in Reservoir Dogs and From Dusk Till Dawn. The plot is a very interesting plot to follow, I never get bored with it no matter how many times I see it. If you have not seen this movie I recommend that it be rented. I think I will buy it on DVD. "},{"Title":"CorruptionLand","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a film that was under the radar when it was released in '97. Seeing it now for the first time in '07 it is an enjoyable drama, although a bit incoherent in the multiple story lines. While a lot of reviewer attention focuses on Stallone's return to form as an actor in the role of Garrison's not-too-bright sheriff &#133; it is in my humble opinion that Ray Liotta steals every scene he's in. Liotta's Figgis is a complicated and tortured soul who is the recipient and giver of a lot of human suffering like knowing who's behind his cherished former partner's death and then causing his own girlfriend's death. Liotta brilliantly nails the complex nature of his character and delivers no-nonsense dialog, especially in his scenes w/ Stallone and later when he's finally leaving Garrison (after the sheriff asked him to stay and help bring down Keitel's cop-gone-bad) and has a conversation w/ his own reflection in the car's rear view mirror. The entire cast excels most notably DeNiro as a beleaguered Internal Affairs detective who has his investigation shut out by higher ups within the police dept. and Garofalo who creates a multi-dimensional character from a minor role. "}{"Title":"Sly Gets Serious (About Acting)","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For years Stallone's acting ability was criticized and most people felt he wasn't capable of much more than a, Yo! Adrian, every 5 years or so. Critics weren't entirely wrong. Movies like Cobra, Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot and Judge Dredd didn't offer much evidence of the actor trying to challenge himself.Cop Land is an entirely different ball game. Perhaps you are or become the people that you surround yourself with. If so, then working with De Niro and Keitel in Cop Land certainly raised Stallone's acting standards. He is phenomenal in this movie as the complacent and simple Sheriff Freddy Heflin who has clearly been kicked in the ass by life. Stallone's body often does much of the acting in his movies, but for Cop Land he gained considerable weight for the role and let his acting take the spot light. Guess what? The boy can act! Stallone's A+ performance aside I am not sure why this movie didn't attract more attention than it did. It's loaded from top to bottom with talented actors in both lead and supporting roles. The story is a somewhat familiar one (police corruption), but because of the top notch performances it seems fresh.It's a shame that this movie wasn't praised more by the critics than it was because Stallone certainly deserved it. If you're a fan of Sly's (be honest, who isn't?) do yourself a favor and watch Cop Land. It's a treat to see Sly's acting talents when most of us assumed we'd seen all he could offer. "},{"Title":"An all-star cast make this an entertaining watch.","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw the rear-end of this film a few years ago, and despite enjoying the little I watched, never got around to seeing the 1st half for years. However, while browsing on Ebay I found a copy of this film going cheap and decided to purchase it. I am glad I did. It's one of those films that has slipped under many people's noses, or when first released never got the recognition it so deserves. OK, it's not a big budget special effects film, but it is certainly worth a few hours of anyone's attention. Stallone is great, and its nice to see him in this sort of role. I think I remember reading somewhere how he put on weight for the character he plays in this film. He seems content and at ease among a few Hollywood heavyweights such as De Niro and Keitel. The crooked cop/mob storyline is quite deep and thought provoking at times, making this crime thriller a good watch. "},{"Title":"Stallone's best performance since First Blood","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" James Mangold's Cop Land is a surprisingly engaging crime drama about police corruption with a stellar cast headlined by none other than Sylvester Stallone, who at this point was in a downfall in his career. However, Stallone manages to lead an amazing group of actors including Harvey Keitel, Andy Liotta, and Robert De Niro in an intelligent story about one small-town sheriff who took on a town of seasoned NYPD veterans who were covering up a murder and a drug scandal, amongst other things. Cop Land was marketed as a high-octane actioner, which is why it receives such flack from critics, but it is, in fact, a well-done drama with swift pacing, great direction, and gripping performances from Keitel, Liotta, and Stallone. Cop Land is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Sylvester Stallone..........wow","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I watched Copland I was really surprised at Sylvester Stallone's performance. It was so solid and he played the role flawlessly. I had once shoved him into the category of all the big muscles no acting ability actors such as Chuck Norris, Arnold Swarzenegar, and Charles Bronson. Sylvester Stallone did an excellent job of portraying a county sheriff who is a little mentally slower than the average person. Harvey Keital also co-stars in this film and he doesn't hold back either his performance was top-notch too, but you can always expect that from him. Near the end the last scene was shot to perfection. This has got to be ranked one of the all time best cop movies ever, because it's got what all cop movies got to have. A mystery, a lovable character, and lots of shooting.Bottom Line Give this one a try, it'll change your opinion on Sylvester Stallone too.--Tayman "},{"Title":"Fantastic film...","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had never seen Copland, but it was on one a movie station the other day, and I had wanted to see it for a while, so I watched it. Out of the 2 hours or so that passed by, I wasn't bored for *one second*.Interesting story and great acting -- what else can one ask for in a film? However, this film is also VASTLY underrated. Why do mediocre films such as Mystic River get nominated for Academy awards for 'best picture' and 'best actor' (and win these awards) when films such as Copland, which are much more deserving, basically fly under the radar? In spite of that, I must also comment on Stallone's acting. Anyone who does not consider Stallone to be a skillful actor should watch Copland. Unlike Rambo and Rocky (and every other movie he ever made), he doesn't play a 'badass' here. Instead, he is passive and timid. Gone are the machine guns, the trademark howling (re Rambo First Blood part II) and the ripping muscles (Stallong literally gained about 30lbs for the role and gave up his Rambo-era physique).In conclusion, Copland is, without a doubt, one of my favorite movies of all time and I highly suggest checking it out.My grade A Which means that my rating was a 10. "},{"Title":"Art Imitates Life","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a good movie who's only downside is the pain of watching Sylvester Stallone attempt to stand toe to toe with some of the greatest leading and character actors ever assembled in one movie! Like his character, small town sheriff Freddy Heflin who struggles to feel like a real cop among his NYPD friends, Stallone seems to be going through the same struggle as an actor against the likes of Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, and Robert DeNiro....and his limited acting ability is all too evident. When he is injured near the end of the film, his attempt to convey pain and rage look all the world like his over acting in the last rounds of all his Rocky movies. I mean, when Robert DeNiro can make a scene of him fixing himself a cup of coffee more believable than Stallones big moment, you know that the man is in way over his head> "},{"Title":"Nice Ensemble in CopLand","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (See the edited version) Seeing Sly play a depressed overweight(?!) slow-moving sheriff of a small corrupt town is a downer for sure. Till you understand why - it's his heroism. He saved a girl from drowning when he was younger & went deaf in 1 ear for doing it. (BTW, that girl is an Adrian Balboa look-a-like!) So he pines away for her but she's married to 1 of the crooked cops in town. He's the only one who knows what's really going on in CopLand when he begins to piece together the puzzle that ultimately tears open this whole case. Keitel is running everything, Liotta's got the bad conscience & knows the inside for having been a part of it all but now wants out & DeNiro is Internal Affairs who needs Sly's input so he can clean up this mess! The women in this film are pitiful but they need to be there. See this film to be intrigued if not by Sly himself for trying something totally different. The ending is exciting & necessary. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good..and Stallone shines!","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gritty and tough, this movie has solid acting, lots of star-power (Keitel, DeNiro, Stallone, Liotta), and a good script. Set in a small town just across the Hudson River from Manhattan, Garrison, NJ is a fictional town inhabited by a large population of NYPD officers. This is no accident...Keitel's character has orchestrated this migration in order to keep a strong circle of like-minded (and crooked) cops all within close proximity of each other. The small town is aptly dubbed Copland and while the town has practically zero percent crime, it is also becomes a breeding ground for corrupt police activity. Stallone plays the slightly slow local Sheriff of Garrison, NJ, whose job it is to look like the authority in town and look the other way when cops behave badly. I won't divulge the plot-line, but it is a well-written drama with a good climax. Stallone does an excellent job, leaving his bare-chested antics to his more silly scripts, and trading them in for good, low-key confident acting. He holds your attention when it's just him on screen, and he doesn't even have to show his oiled chest to do it! In fact, he gained a substantial amount of weight just for the role. Rent it if you want a solid drama with a great ensemble cast of Hollywood heavyweights all working nicely together...you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Get over your hatred of Sly and watch a terrific movie","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land is an experience in and of itself. The small town is so perfectly shot that it feels like the long lost vacation spot you never went to. First off, the cast is incredible in this film. Sylvester Stallone, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, and Robert Deniro, just to name a few. Every character in this movie is highly believable. And the shocking thing is that Sly steals the show easily. This is without a doubt one of Sylvester Stallones best roles. He was cast perfectly as the down and out of luck sheriff who gets fed up with the illegal actions going on around him. Harvey Keitel never lets you down, nor does Robert Deniro. Ray Liotta is superb as the rough drug dealer that pushes Sly around. Other than the amazing cast, the story is flawless. This film is the definition of drama. Real life situations of crooked cops, under the table deals, murder, and the power of politics are put together so well to create this world that is Cop Land. I would tell anyone who hasn't seen this movie that they need to sit down and watch it immediately. It will grab you from the beginning and amaze you as the tragic story unfolds and leads to one of the most dramatic endings in film. "},{"Title":"the best","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" as a future filmmaker I hope I can ever make a film of this caliber the cast was brilliant and my god I love sly in this film he was great I think one of his best performances ever he really did awesome. what more do I have to say about ray L he is the awesome excellent cast bobby d the legend, Harvey K , bob Patrick great just a good movie with a excellent Cast. In A World where a cop movie comes out every five minutes and most are usually bad Cop land proves that you don't need mega millions to make a Excellent film. in fact all the actors in this picture worked for scale. Once Again Awesome film Buy it , Rent it Steal it hahaha but if you haven't seen it do so asap or you will i repeat you will be cheating yourself. "}{"Title":"Sly is in unique form in a great film","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cop Land is a must see film that everyone must watch. Sylvester Stallone is in rare form as he delivers an outstanding performance as the local sheriff in Copland.Cop Land is the type of movie that would probably appeal only to certain people such as those who like a certain actor or enjoy thrillers.I happen to be a member of both categories because I like all the actors and I enjoy thrillers. I noticed how similar this was to Heat, which starred Al Pacino and Robert De Niro. This is a slow paced movie that works. I do not think this movie could have worked if it went in a faster pace. Stallone did such a great job he proves that he is more than an action star.Supporting Stallone in Cop Land, are Ray Liotta, Robert Patrick, Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro. Each one of these actors provide a unique spark that no other have and when put together in one movie will guarantee a really good film.  "},{"Title":"A truly excellent cast, and an original concept.","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm surprised I've only just seen this film - anybody into New York drama should give it a go. It's like a Sopranos breeding ground (it features Edie Falco, Annabella Sciorra, John Ventimiglia, Frank Vincent and even Tony Sirico - although he only appears in photographs), and hosts an all-star cast to rival that of 'True Romance'. Two of the three all-time heavyweights, Harvey Keitel and Robert de Niro, give convincing performances and it's good to see them together all this time after 'Mean Streets'.Raay Liotta and Michael Rapaport are energetic as usual and help bring the screen to life. Stallone steals the show with a surprisingly sombre, somewhat understated role, hitting the required note perfectly.The solid cast backs up an interesting and original idea, and it's refreshing to see a story told from a slightly different perspective. We've come to expect New York based films to be mob-orientated, and while there is reference to the mob, the story focuses on entirely different, not so black-and-white characters.An impressive film - see it if you haven't already!  "},{"Title":"One actor stands out and a lot drop out","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone is indeed seen here in a becoming role. Apart from a few quirks, particularly by the end of the movie, his acting is insanely good and a novel shift from what we usually see him do. As for the better part of the rest of the leading actors... they should not even have been paid for this. Robert De Niro and Harvey Keitel merely resort to stereotypes of their former characters for which they have already been paid before. Shameful!The plot was fascinating and well thought out. Okay, some scenes seemed to provide nothing, such as the one where the paramedics discuss the bridge incident - why not showing how they hit a brick wall when trying to complain or have a bunch of hoodlums persuade them to keep quiet instead of simply ignoring them completely?- Thomas Nielsen "},{"Title":"Very underated - good cop thriller/","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must say I was shocked to see that this movie only has an average rating of 6.7 on here. Copland is a deeply absorbing, intelligent thriller with great performances. Sylvester Stallone plays the lead character, the Sheriff of a New Jersey suburb owned by the Police. Despite what you may think of Stallone in previous films, he pulls out a strong performance in this and is a likeable character. Backing Sly up is some real talent, including Ray Liotta, Harvey Kietel and Robert De Niro. The latter of which is, disappointingly, in little of the film, but he is fun to watch as Internal Affairs officer Moe Tilden and in one scene particularly memorable, where he tells Heflin (Stallone) I gave you a chance to be a cop, and you blew it!. He is referring to how he wanted to get Heflin on side in an investigation into the suburb, looking at the suspectedly corrupt cops living there. Keitel is the real leader of said cops, who is very convincing and Ray Liotta is scintillating as Figgsy, a cop that was once a part of Ray's crew, but realises he is getting pushed away. In my opinion, his is the best performance in a wonderfully acted film. Michael Rapaport of True Romance Dick Ritchie fame is another actor overshadowed by the stars, but still amazing, and in a way he plays the most important part in the film. Briefly, the plot The story is mainly concerned with how Heflin becomes to realise what goes on in his peaceful town, and who the cops that he admires really are. This realisation is mainly brought by two saga's Firstly Rapaports character - Murray Superboy Babitch - 's faked suicide and how that all turns ugly, and secondly Liotta's Figgsy committing some desperate crimes in order to try to re affirm his status, or even overtake Ray, and the effect these have.   It all comes together beatifully for the end, but the rest of the film is just as much a treat, and the tagline No One is above the law  could not fit the theme and course of the movie better.  In my opinion, this is a film with a great plot and a strong script, but the real plus's are it's absorbing direction and its interesting characters, perfectly acted. Deserves an average rating on this site of at least 7, and I think a good load more. **** 1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Sleep land","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Slow moving thriller with a stellar cast de Niro, Keitel, and Sylvester Stallone, who plays a corpulent, somnulent sheriff in a corrupt small town.  Stallone is fascinating to watch in a straight role, his range is very limited but he's actually quite effective until the emotional demands of the part increase. The he seems a little out of his depth, just like his character; the finale somewhat dissipates the preceding tension. Still above average, but the premise definitely exceeds the denouement. "},{"Title":"Potentially great...","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...but then so are many things. Robert De Niro! Harvey Keitel! Stallone does serious! Add to that a solid support cast of people like Ray Liotta, Michael Rapaport, Annabella Sciorra, and Janeane Garofalo, and you'd think you'd have a great movie. Sadly, this movie is not great. It is a lot of things, but great is not one of them.MINI SPOILERS The script is poor, the direction is shoddy, and the actors seem to muddle through the film not understanding their characters at all. Why did Liotta burn down his house? Why did they crowbar in the romantic subplot between Sciorra and Stallone? Why did they need to have so many peripheral characters who were half developed (eg. Joey Randone, Keitel's character's wife) when they could have cut them and developed the main characters some more? And why oh WHY did they bother hiring Robert De Niro and then sticking him in what amounts to a bit part?! He's got maybe 20 lines max!The ending, where we see everything from Stallone's deafened point of view, was cleverly done, but for me, it was too little too late. Since Mangold is also responsible for the good, but highly overrated Girl, Interrupted, and the really quite awful Kate and Leopald, it's not surprising Cop Land is a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Stallones best role ever!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I really hated Stallone before I had watched this movie. Of course he was great in Rocky 1 and 2, but what then? He just made terrible roles, all the action-heroes are just horrible. But in this movie, he shows that he can really act. I think hes even better than De Niro in this movie, and thats really heavy. I would just like to say to Stallone Stop doing all those action heroes, and take roles as in this movie. "},{"Title":"Great performance by all, even Stallone, and a great story too.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stallone, acting? You may scoff, but this shows that he certainly can. Some may argue that his character of a slow, partially deaf character may be quite easy for him to play, but I disagree. This film does nothing but suck you in, and I've seen it three times and I still feel so much for the characters, especially Stallone's character of the beaten Sheriff, ***, who feels passed over and sorry for himself, resenting his past choices. You take a journey as *** finds himself, the truth and something to live for. Superb acting all round, and a fabulous story make this an unmissable film. "},{"Title":"My favourite Sly-movie!","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen this movie a couple of times now, and I last caught it on TV. I remember when the movie came out, how it got some bad reviews over here, and I'd like to kick some critics ass for those lousy reviews. This movie is a wonderful piece of storytelling. And Sylvester Stallone does a great act as the seemingly retarded Sheriff of what is called 'Copland'.Garrison, New Jersey. The home of many New York City cops. A cosy little place, but with a few suspicious characters who call themselves officers of the law. It is here corrupt cops hide out and it is here they really need a good Sheriff.You should check this movie out, with not too many expectations, and I'll promise you a good time. And the cast is amazing too. Enjoy!****/***** "},{"Title":"Right Director, Right Cast, Right Story","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just want to say that I disagree with all those that feel that James Mangold did not deliver a great film  Not only did he deliver a great film, but his talent as a director shines through.  Stallone also did a wonderful job and I am not usually one to like his work.  Finally, as for the shootout, I think it is lost on a lot of people that this was a modernized High Noon.  Stallone, DeNiro, Liotta, Kietel, Rappaport and the director all seemed to realize that.  If only the general public and critics could have recognized it also. "}{"Title":"This is a classic even though it isnt that old","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have always been into the good cop rotten cop movies esp if Harvey Keitel is the bad cop. Ray Liota tops everything off by playing the burned out chain-smoking coke head who tries to do the right thing. Out of all he characters to empathies with it would be Ray Liota's.This was supposed to be Stalone's big break from action movies but it turned out to just make everyone wonder how he gained 40 pounds for the role.This move is great though. Strange how I was the only person in the theatre thinking so...  "},{"Title":"Agree with julior Sly was good until the bullets started flying","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Def one of Stallones subtler efforts (yes he can do it) let down by a formulaic ending but still well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Right cast, wrong director","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Synopsis Freddie Heflin has always dreamed of being a member of the NYPD, something he had dreamed of since he was a teenager. But one life saving accident prevented him from joining their illustrious ranks with a hearing problem. But he resides as sheriff of a town started by the NYPD and inhabited by them. They're the people he looks up to as cleaning up the streets, but he ends up finding out more than he should know. With the determination of an Internal Affairs agent, he uncovers information that could threaten his life, and the one he needs to protect.The Review Here it is, you've got a mega movie star like Stallone, oscar winner and nominee Robert DeNiro and Harvey Keitel respectively, fine actors like Ray Liotta, Robert Patrick, Peter Berg, Michael Rapaport, and Catherine Moriarty among many others that create an impressive cast. What you get is essentially a decent film that prevents it from greatness because of the conventional limits of it's script. It's a Martin Scorcese cast without Martin Scorcese directing, and unfortunately, it doesn't work as well as it should've. The performances are good but not powerful, and that's what prevents it from that greatness. Grade B- "},{"Title":"A Knock-Your-Socks-Off Thriller!!.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sheriff of a place everyone calls Cop Land a small and seeminlgy peaceful town populated by the big-city police officers he's long admired. Yet something ugly is taking place behind the rown's peaceful facade. And When Freddy uncovers a massive, deadly conspiracy among these local residents . He is forced to take action - make a dangerous choice between protecting his idols... and upholding up the law!. "},{"Title":"Powerful little piece","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cop land is a powerful, simmering police drama that was virtually ignored by the public upon it's 1997 theatrical release. James Mangold's picture is a moody, slow burning film about corruption and loyalty within the small police community of Garrison N.J. What little attention the film did evoke came from Mangold's heavyweight cast and Stallone's gained girth, which is a shame, as the film itself is terrific. The film has the dour look and feel of a 70's thriller, and the photography is complimented by a beautiful, haunting musical score from Howard Shore. Mangold's script is tight and his direction assured. The acting, of course, is the real draw here. Keitel and De Niro give us their usual no-nonsense authority, supported here by a faultless cast of eclectic actors in minor roles (including Peter Berg, Robert Patrick, Janeane Garofolo and Annabella Sciorra). But it is Sylvester Stallone and Ray Liotta who carry the picture. Stallone (humbled, inarticulate and conflicted) is deeply affecting in his role, whilst Liotta returns to blistering form, stomping through the film with an energy and conviction all of his own. Their scenes together crackle. Cop Land is a classic western in all but name, an involving film that will find it's audience in years to come. It deserves to. "},{"Title":"Sly was good until the bullets started flying","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film starts with a reasonably interesting premise about NY City cops who set up their own town across the bridge in New Jersey, with Sylvester Stallone playing the stooge sheriff whose main job is to look the other way. As the plot develops, it becomes difficult to distinguish this group of cops from any mob family - in fact, there is no difference. I was let down by the ending, however, which resorted to an illogical plot development that led to a fairly standard and uninspired gun battle that's over before you know it. It would have been much more interesting had the guns stayed in their holsters, or at least if it would have been a little less predictable. "},{"Title":"A solid and unpredictable Police drama","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is, unmistakably, the finest performance ever given by Stallone in his whole career and was almost, but not quite, worth an Oscar. Keitel is even better as the corrupt and cold-shouldered hood who runs most of the town. Ray Liotta, who notably made some really bad movies throughout the 90's is top notch and back on his feet as the retired, lazy and apathetic coke-head of a copper. I have to say that Robert De Niro wasn't exactly knockout but still provided good screen presence. The story is very well built up, from Michael Rapaport's accident at the beginning to Peter Berg's untimely death, right through to the shocking and brilliantly filmed finale. Very worth while, with an exceptional support cast, including Janeane Garofalo, Robert Patrick, Raging Bull's Cathy Moriarty and Goodfellas's Frank Vincent. "},{"Title":"A film I am a admirer of of, a simple story well told...life like","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  COPLAND stops short of being epic, yet, isn't that the way real life is.? The story revolves a down on his luck small town sheriff who lives on the outskirts of manhattan island aka NYC and uncovers a mob connection to the corrupt cops who run the town. James Mangold, the writer and director of this film uses a reallife sensibility as opposed to a LETHAL WEAPON 4, action fest to tell a tale of conflicting emotions, unfullfilled lifes dreams and the guy they all think is a joke but in the last part of the movie gets the last laugh. STALLONE ditches his action icon persona and plays a down to earth small town sheriff in a brutally realistic police story. I respect men who write like this. As I find the time in my part time, trying to do the same I watch a movie like this and I realize there is no Fing way I could be this prolific and good. Such is the peril of life. However, COPLAND succeeds in the same tradition as SERPICO, in the sense we have a character who is caught up in the quest to expose wrong or cover it up, also we have a element where he is considered inferior, which ends up being his opponents PEARL HARBOR. COPLAND could be a front page headline, and for the simplicity of the story i was excited. By simple I mean there were no terrorists with a nuclear bomb threatening to blow up a battleship or something moronically pretentious. COPLAND succeeds in making the villains look like human beings, corrupt cops who think what they are doing is right. The way they justify their actions to themselves is worth the price of admission alone. The character STALLONE plays is not glamorous or flashy or a ladies man, he's sort of a loner; a everyman. I think the appeal of this movie is the lack of RUSH HOUR style action spectacular and more nitty gritty crime and the motives behind it. Also, crime movies set in small towns have a asthetic arthouse appeal. This film blends a arthouse look and is a reminder to the great movies miramax used to crank out before the TEEN WAVE took hollywood by storm. If you like sidney lumet films and social conscience pictures in the tradition of BLOOD SIMPLE or FARGO check this one out. "},{"Title":"A great thriller","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just watched this film for the second time and enjoyed it alot more the second time round. Sylvester Stallone, Robert De Niro, Harvey Kietel and Ray Liotta are all fantastic but with a supporting cast consisting of Robert Patrick and Janeane Garofalo how could they miss! Well done, a good job *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"how come everybody's so surprised?","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was just reading some comments on the movie Cop Land. Some people were oh so surprised claiming Stallone had finally proved he really could  act. Well, how is it that Stallone acts so well in this movie? The answer because the script is pretty good, because his role demands certain acting skills, which Stallone easily lives up to. What I mean to say Stallone has always been a good actor, his problem was that his roles had never demanded any acting skills (except for Rocky, F.I.S.T. and maybe First Blood). Ever since Stallone had merely played monosyllabic and stereotype characters like in the other Rambos , Cobra, The Specialist, Judge Dredd etc. And he did his job well, he played the part the best way it could be played. I think Stallone (or rather his management) did a pretty lousy job concerning his carreer moves - instead of trying different and above all credible things (I stress the word credible regarding Stop! Or my mom will shoot, not too bad though, but that's not what Sly can play, that's just like Jim Carrey couldn't play the Terminator). On the top of his carreer in 1985/86, Sly should have tried to change his genre, such as Arnie did (in contrast to Sly, Arnie can have a funny and ironic on-screen appearance), instead he chose to play almost the same roles over and over again. Nevertheless Stallone was and still is a great actor. And fortunately since Cop Land most people share my opinion, although it was quite obvious already before. Talking about Cop Land this was a good movie, Sly once again as an underdog but this time with some physical lacks which makes it much more interesting to watch. "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Keitel, DeNiro, Stallone, and Liotta all do magnificent jobs acting in the crime/drama. Cop Land is an excellent movie that sort of gets etched into your mind. Stallone is not Rocky, he's not Rambo, he's just a regular cop. Nothing fancy about him. That's a big plus for the movie, Stallone wasn't typecast! If you like movies like Carlito's Way, LA Confidential, or HEAT this one may be for you. "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone is in rare form as he is the local sheriff in Copland.Copland is the type of movie that would probably appeal only to certain people such as those who like a certain actor or enjoy thrillers.I happen to be a member of both categories because I like all the actors and I enjoy thrillers. I noticed how similar this was to Heat, which starred Al Pacino and Robert Deniro. This is a slow movie that works. I do not think this movie could have worked if it went any faster. Stallone did such a great job he proves that he is more than an action star.Supporting Stallone in Copland, are Ray Liotta, Robert Patrick, Harvey Keitel and Robert Deniro. Each one of these actors provide a unique spark that no other have and when put together in one movie will guarantee a really good film.This is a must see for everyone.   "},{"Title":"Welcome back to acting Sly...","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  All around COP LAND was a great and excellent movie. It's cast of Stallone, Keitel, DeNiro, Garafalo, Liotta,Rapaport, and others, the film is driven by it's powerful acting, along with it's wonderful script. This movie was a huge reminder to the world that Sly could act back when he did ROCKY and FIRST BLOOD and when given a powerful script like COPLAND still can. It was terrific to see him playing the dog faced deaf sheriff. With twist and turns and a wonderful gripping story COPLAND is a must see movie. "},{"Title":"See it for Stallone","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another movie that proves that in the American dream, the pursuit of happiness is intimately related to the usage of firearms. Stallone does a great job, he's arguably the best in an excellent cast (looks like Keitel, Liotta and de Niro primarily needed some money, though.) The film is in the tradition of High Noon and Taxi Driver The loser stands up against a corrupt world... Not bad, but not really good either.  "},{"Title":"A really good film","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having many good actors in a film doesn't mean a good film.  But in the case of Cop Land it does.  Stallone is especially great, but perhaps is character is a bit too weak, as he is a sheriff?De Niro's role is small but excellent, Ray Liotta is good (not just another Goodfellas), Keitel is also good.A very clever story, good scenes and acting make this well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A fine film that hasn't gotten the attention it deserves","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stallone took a real risk with COP LAND, and it's a pity it hasn't paid off.  Great cast, good (tho' not great) script, and surprisingly affecting performances all combine to make this a wonderful break from the usual reactionary, empty-headed movies Stallone usually does.  Stallone is wonderful as a well-meaning, two-bit New Jersey sherrif who stands up to a crew of corrupt NYPD boys in blue who have been the unofficial rulers of his town.  The script is a little convoluted (a few too many subplots that have to be wrapped up by the end), but overall this is a strong dramatic thriller that deserved to be much more successful.  I was so impressed to see Stallone take on this film; his muted, sad performance is really quite stunning.  It's too bad COP LAND didn't generate further roles like this for Stallone -- this film showcased whole dimensions to his talent that he hasn't had the chance to show since ROCKY more than 20 years ago.  If you're looking for neat resolutions and lots of explosions, don't bother.  But if you appreciate intelligent dramas, rent it and marvel at the fact that Stallone's a better actor than you probably ever gave "},{"Title":"Underated gem","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the very best films of 1997. You cant help but be reminded of many of Scorsese's finest films (Many of the cast members are Scorsese regulars). Nearly everyone in the cast is in fine form but Stallone is a stand out. Why he was not nominated for best actor is a mystery to me. Sly leaves his hardcore action personna at the door  and instead turns in a sublime and painfully restrained performance as a deaf small town sheriff who turns a blind eye to the corruption by the NYPD cops who live in his jurisdiction. Also outstanding as always is the manically intense Ray "},{"Title":"Intriguing & interesting","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie premiered on cable here (Australia) last week and although I hadn't heard very good things about it, i decided to see what it was like. I was most impressed, its totally different from Stallones usual roles which was a refreshing change.  The cast was absolutely excellent, with the people involved how could it not be?  Its one of those films that is hard to categorise because it has little bits of everything thrown in.  Well worth 100 minutes of your time.   "},{"Title":"Hey, we are the law","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a person who once had police officers as roommates, I am not new to the concept of the thin blue line or the blue wall that has been so popular a concept in the media recently.  From movies like Serpico to tv shows like NYPD Blue, this theme of cops protecting other cops has been a popular storyline.  But with Cop Land we get a unique twist on the subject.  Imagine an entire town populated largely with cops, all out out of the jurisdiction of New York City Internal Affairs, and the possibilities for abuse of power are seemingly limitless.  Add the twist of a wannabe New York cop who has a hearing disability because of an earlier heroic action, and you've got yourself a movie.  I had heard that Sylvester Stallone had gained a substantial amount of weight to do his part of the local sheriff, and the added weight seemed to help his believability.  His tormented character admirably tries to watch the cops, all the while wishing that he was one of them.  To complicate matters, one of the dirty cops is married to the woman he covets.  Although the movie dragged at times, fine, quiet performances by Robert DeNiro and Ray Liotta, along with Harvey Keitel, bridged the gaps with their combination of cool calculation and fiery action.  Also look for Jeanine Garafolo in a minor role as a sheriff's deputy who has a difficult time policing the police.  Overall, it was entertaining, and thankfully, though we see the dirty cop headline too frequently, most of the men in blue are more Stallone and less Keitel, at least in this film. "},{"Title":"Copland is a place","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad movie, if only for Sly Stallone looking like just a slob, like one of us. But that's not the only reason. It's a typical story of cops sticking together, though these guys were a little too bad for me. The best scene is the final shootout, where we, the audience, hear almost nothing but a slight ringing because Sly is quite deaf at that point. It was interesting -- kind of surreal. Well worth the price, on video. "}{"Title":"Stallone is refreshingly out of character.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's sort of nice to see Sylvester Stallone act like something other than a tough guy for a change.  He supposedly gained 35/40 pounds of fat for his role as a suburban New Jersey cop.  He plays a flunky cop at that.  Not a lot of self-confidence; not a lot of kick-butt.  But can he act wearing extra pounds?  Sorta.  Not the best film ever made, but worth a look nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Stallone gives an eye opening performance!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie! Sylvester Stallone proved everybody wrong when he took the role of freddy hefflin an overweight, half deaf cop. In the movie stallone is the sheriff of a town called Garrison where all the big city police officers live. Hefflin has to uncover the truth that the good guys are not always good. Strong perfomences also by DeNiro,Kitial,and Ray Liotta. "},{"Title":"Great cast, good movie.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Copland has an all-star cast, which includes Robert deNiro, Michael Rapaport, Robert Patrick, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta and of course Stallone. The movie has a good story, and all of the cast do their acting jobs good. Kuddos for Stallone who also does a great job, instead of choosing another dumb action movie to star in. Robert deNiro doesn't have much screentime which was kind of a bummer. Anyway, a great thriller/action movie that is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Good, in a way","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a movie destined to disappoint a lot of people. Those who were diehard fans of Stallone's larger-than-life action heroes will never accept him in the role of a normal human. Those who look for Stallone to break his egomaniacal 'Rambo' image and reveal the Great Oscar winning Actor that has been hiding inside of him all these years will also find less than they desire. But those who come to this movie hoping for a solid, thought provoking film will be pleased with what they come away with.As a lifelong Stallone detractor, I looked to this production as another opportunity to slam the Muscled One for his wooden acting and relentless trashing of the medium in pursuit of a fast buck. Instead, I was surprised to see a middle aged man making an honest effort and reaching down deep to find the heart and soul of the character he is playing. At times, he seems to accomplish this goal, at times he seems to be simply groping for the proper emotion.Stallone's task is made more difficult by having to play against a truly great actor. Co star Ray Liotta gives us a magnificent performance as Figgsy, the New York Cop whose exposure to drugs, corruption and extortion cause him to slowly self destruct over the course of the film. My favorite moment is in the climactic scene, here Liotta shows up looking coked up, worn out, unshowered and mad as hell at finding himself in the situation.While there were many problems with the sequencing and flow of the film, (not to mention some confusion in the writing,) my overall feelings about the movie were positive enough to make me buy a used copy of the videotape (something I rarely do.) For someone who has spent decades cultivating an intense dislike of Stallone, this was no small concession.I recommend renting this movie if you are the type who likes John Sayles films, or police dramas high on character and medium-to-low on violence. "},{"Title":"Something worse than Scorsese Lite","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Here's how you ruin a good premise for a movie Coax go-through-the-motions performances out of grizzled vets of this stuff like DeNiro and Keitel, throw in actors totally out of their element (Janeane Garofalo?!?), and allow Sylvester Stallone near the set. Actually, Stallone ain't half as bad as this preposterous story -- yeah, I know it's based on a true story, but I'm betting the real thing didn't end with a cop-on-cop shoot-out that reeked of every lazy Hollywood resolution to a movie. Add clunky editing and listless direction, and you've got me checking my watch every five minutes, which is exactly what I did throughout Copland. "},{"Title":"Vastly under-rated movie","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a good movie if not a great movie with a powerhouse cast and some fine acting from Stallone who's been doing stupid roles like Rambo too long, Harvey Keitel Ray Liotta and Robert de Niro. Definitely worth seeing at least once. Even though it didn't win any Oscars nominations it deserved some especially Stallone. "},{"Title":"A drama/thriller about corrupt cops and a small-town sheriff.","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of my favorite movies of the year.  This is a great movie about a bunch  of corrupt cops who work for the city of New York, but live in a small town  across the river where they do their business.  They hand-picked the sheriff  an overweight half-deaf man, played by Sylvester Stallone (Rocky,  Cliffhanger), who desperately wants to become one of them, but because of  his hearing he can't.  Robert DeNiro (Awakenings, The Fan) plays an  internal affairs officer who decides to investigate the cops and try to get  help from Stallone.  Now Stallone has to decide whether to do something  with his life and expose them, or to stay silent about his heros, and maybe  get a job as one of them.  This is a very well written movie, featuring one  of the year's best performances by Sylvester Stallone.  Ray Liotta  (Goodfellas, Something Wild) is excellent as a Scuzzy, corrupt cop who is  having second thoughts about his life.  Harvey Keitel (Bugsy, Pulp Fiction)  does a good job playing the leader of the corrupt cops.  DeNiro's role is  small, but he plays it well.  Michael Rapapport (Beautiful Girls, Metro)  and Robert Patrick (Terminator 2, Rosewood) offer strong support as fellow  cops. "},{"Title":"Good movie but in the end it still falls short.","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land began as a real solid well constructed movie with a great story and premise. However as the movie more and more progressed the story and movie became more and more messy and the plot was shaky and the movie lost most of it's credibility and realism in its second halve.The first halve of the movie is made very realistic. I enjoyed the acting and the story about corrupt cops. I liked were the movie was heading to with its style and story. A real solid thriller it seemed. I would had rated this movie a 7 or maybe even an 8, if I purely had to base my rating on the first halve of the movie. The movie however became highly unrealistic in it's second halve and the story was getting more and more shaky and unrealistic. The violent ending also wasn't truly fitting for a movie like this.The acting was really what saved this movie- and still made it an interesting one to watch. Sylvester Stallone was great and realistic in his role. It shows that he is a better actor most people give him credit for. He played a role you normally wouldn't expect him to play. Harvey Keitel was also great as the sort of leader of the corrupt side of 'Cop Land'. Other fine, well known actors, show up in some smaller parts. Some of the actors are really underused, such as Robert De Niro who pops up every now and then but isn't really essential enough for the movie. The treatment of the characters felt messy at times and the movie was lacking in depth and character development.It still is an absolutely watchable- and still somewhat good movie, almost entirely thanks to the acting. It had all the elements present to make this a unforgettable thriller but alas in the end it all still falls short of greatness.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Even if your not a Stallone Fan, trust me you will love this movie.","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cop Land (1997) stars Sylvester Stallone, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta & Robert De Niro, a line of up of the biggest stars in Hollywood. Stallone actually had to gain 40 pounds for this so he doesn't look like a action movie tough cop. I'm actually a pretty big Stallone fan. I've always delayed watching Cop Land, i know that its about 7 years old now, but i only recently watched this a few weeks ago, I was blown away by this movie. The concept is so great for this movie that they actually made a TV series on this movie with a lot of the same actors in the show called  The Sopranos. I've never really seen the show but i doubt that it would be as good as this movie. Cop Land is a movie which should be in or near the top 250 of all time. If you like Mafia movies such as Heat, Goodfellas, The Godfather, The Untouchables & Casino then you would enjoy this. It's actually a fast paced movie, its not too slow & no over the top dialogues. I wish that I could've made a movie like this, A lot of people would enjoy this, but i think not many people have seen or have heard of this movie. 5/5 "},{"Title":"LOTS OF New York BORN ACTORS!","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"                 Enjoyed the entire picture and  the idea that NYC police had a hideaway across the Hudson River into a nice quite town in New Jersey, like Jersey City or Hoboken where they could raise their families away from Harm's Way!!  Sylvester Stallone(Sheriff Freddy Heflin),The Good Life,'97, put on a few pounds in this picture and seemed to wake up towards the end of the picture, he was very low key in his role.  He also had a hearing problem which seemed to get Worse!  Harvey Keitel (Ray Donlan),Who Killed the Idea?,'03 played the rotten cop but was a good friend to Sheriff Freddy.  Robert DeNiro,(Lt. Moe Tilden), City by the Sea,'02 was outstanding as an Internal Affairs tough police officer who kept a hot breath down the backs of any crooked COPS!  It was nice to hearing all the genuine New York accents of all the actors, after all, this film was made in their BACKYARDS! "}{"Title":"The ending is one of the best things about this above-average thriller.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Cop Land focuses on a small town in New Jouzee named Garrison. It is overlooked by corrupt cops that rule with an iron hand, and are in turn ruled by the mafia in New York. But beefy cop Sylvester Stallone is tired of looking the other way when something happens. I look at this town, and I don't like what I see, mutters Sylvester Stallone's character. Harvey Keitel, the head cop, replies saying, Who do you think you are? That is the breaking point for Stallone's character. He turns to NY cop Robert DeNiro for help. His friend, Ray Liotta, eventually helps him to put a finish to the town's unfortunate rulers in a shoot-out ending.Cop Land isn't a great movie, but it is very entertaining, and the powerhouse ending is terrifically and refreshingly noble, not to mention that we are rooting for the good guy all the way. It's sublime.Sylvester Stallone seems to give one of his best performances in a long time. Stallone has recently been starring in a lot of a) flops or b) just plain stupid movies. This film proves that somewhere in there he has a little bit of acting talent. It's interesting to note that Stallone purposely and perfectly gained a bit of weight for this role - it's more believable this way. Having some muscular cop in a small town would be a bit...odd.The supporting cast is above good. It's excellent. Robert DeNiro isn't in the film more than twenty to thirty minutes total, but that's kind of nice. They didn't go overboard on his character - it seems more that Robert DeNiro is playing the character instead of the character playing Robert DeNiro. What I mean by this is that the filmmakers didn't write out a bigger role for the character when they found out DeNiro was pegged for it. I don't like when scripts are obviously rewritten around a certain actor. Seeing DeNiro in a supporting role is not only interesting to watch, but somehow refreshing. 	Harvey Keitel handles his role quite nicely, also, and is very believable and hateable as the corrupt cop. And like DeNiro, he was not transformed into the main character. Though he has much more screentime than DeNiro. 	Ray Liotta manages to impress once again with his role of another slightly overweight man who is tired of Garrison and just wants to get out. Alive. 	Robert Patrick, the T-1000 in Terminator 2, is creepy as always - his T2 character seems to still be showing through a bit when he plays this role.Cop Land isn't a great film per say, but the ending is refreshingly right for once. It's not politically-correct, nor is it arrogant and disappointing. It's good to see something good happen on screen once and a while. The filmmakers don't give us a character we don't care about in shoot-out situations. They first introduce the characters to us, let us begin to see their qualities, and then at the end they throw them in a shoot-out and we all know who we're rooting for and why.The ending is one of the best things about this above-average thriller.4/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"I want to think James Mangold for making a movie that deals with a problem (police corruption) and believe me it happens more than you think.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  James Mangold had the courage to touch an issue that many citizens and professionals like to ignore that being police corruption. And believe me I know that police corruption happens often I was a criminal justice major in college. It's amazing what a badge can make some cops do. I'm glad though that we have the honest people in law enforcement like the sheriff that Sylvester Stallone plays in Cop Land. Cop Land has Sylvester Stallone as a embattled small town New Jersey sheriff with a hearing problem up against cross-town corrupt NYPD cops(Harvey Keitel, and Ray Liotta) who use the small New Jersey town as the area to conduct crime and illegal situations. I must say Stallone looks very out-of-shape but that is typical looking for a sheriff I once read he put on 40 to 50 pounds of weight for the sheriff role mostly the weight gain is in the stomach it sure was a different look for Stallone compared to his Rocky films. Robert DeNiro delivers a good performance as the NYPD internal affairs investigator DeNiro always does a brilliant job in any movie you find him in. Cop Land has the courage to show the dirty and corrupt side of law enforcement while at the very same time we admire the honest and lawman like ways of the small town sheriff that Stallone plays now that makes Cop Land a film of importance proving that corrupt behavior and people that being anyone are not above the law as it is proven by a honest small town sheriff. "},{"Title":"Should've been great, but only the acting rises above the adequacy of the finished product","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's so much I want to hate and love about Cop Land equally that its the most deserving of a 5/10 score I've ever seen. To borrow from Rita Kempley's review, Cop Land is so full of characters and plots clamouring for the audience's attention that its director should have been traded for a traffic cop. Then we would have had a semblance of balance.Stallone is the half-deaf local sheriff of a small New Jersey town inhabited mostly by New York cops. One of the strongest attributes of the film is the subtle acting and natural interactions between the characters. All the cops talk to Freddie like he's a bum who they let pretend he's in charge so he can have a turn but no one actually respects. Stallone (40 pounds pudgier than usual) ambles around slowly, with no self-esteem and even less authority. It is an absolutely masterful performance by Stallone (his best when he's not playing Rocky Balboa). The one scene where he shouts and acts is actually weaker than the sweeter, quieter moments of him just going around being a sheriff. It speaks a great deal about the subtlety of acting.Harvey Keitel, on the other end of the spectrum, could be a man ten feet tall. His authority is unquestionable, his presence intimidating. Cop Land has got such an incredible cast on its hands that no one would even begin to know what to do with them all, and indeed James Mangold doesn't know what to do. Its almost as if characters were created because they needed to give these great actors something to do. The characters played by great actors Robert Patrick and John Spencer could have been combined into one alongside Arthur Nascarella's unmemorable character. Ray Liotta is such a strong performance that he tends to overshadow Stallone and crowd this ostensible main character out of his own movie. Liotta's character is never fully explained and becomes rather redundant. None of the acting in Cop Land is bad, however, and many of the actors manage to make a huge mark with their miniscule parts - most notably Paul Calderon and Janeane Garofalo. However, I did find Michael Rapaport's performance to be very annoying and below the quality worthy of this cast for such an important character.James Mangold's direction and script both feature some average choices. The subplot about Figgsy's house burning down provides little to the story and actually leaves a big gaping hole in Liotta's performance when he doesn't show any grief. Rappaport's character makes utterly stupid decisions like peeking out of the back of a car in plain view of people who think he's dead. The idea of a man everyone thinks is dead openly attending a giant party has the potential to be a subtle message on how corrupt the cops are and arrogant about getting away with it, but ends up being annoyingly naive on everyone's part. There's one inspired moment when Stallone tries to escort Superboy to the station (which Mangold would recreate even better in 310 to Yuma 10 years later) which is then ruined by the tensionless slow- motion action sequence that finishes the film. Throughout the film, Howard Shore's music is wonderful, especially his use of violins.Stallone deserves to be proud of the performance he gives, but with all the cast and talent assembled, Cop Land deserved to be great. What we get is okay. "},{"Title":"Nice Cop Movie but No Classic Either","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed parts of this movie, while other parts seemed corny. Stallone and De Niro stole the show with their performances, but the other major actors seemed a step short. So here is my regular good, lackluster, and terrible listing GOOD Acting was better than average as was the casting. The actors really fit the characters. Also good was the intention of the movie even though the actual delivery did not seem to come off right to me. Good drama but parts were just a little too predictable and caused some anti-climactic elements. LACKLUSTER While the story was of good intention, I commented that the delivery could have been better. The movie, to have that huge a cast, did not leave any truly memorable scenes that would help it achieve classic status. Much of the movie was predictable, but was fairly realistic, which redeemed it somewhat. TERRIBLE The fact that a movie with this level of cast could not produce anything truly memorable was, to me, pathetic. This, much like Righteous Kill, underachieved. Stallone was trying to break away with something different from his other work, and while it was slightly better than all his other 90's work, it could have been better. Stallone was the brightest spot of this movie, De Niro's role was too short, and Keitel/Liotta's roles were too big for their caliber. Simply said This movie with Scorcese as it's director probably would have come off more like it should have. Movie should have been darker, less-predictable, and more memorable. "},{"Title":"Stallone's best since Rocky","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A serviceable thriller notable for its star-sprinkled cast and the draw of having genre-bunny Sylvester Stallone amongst them. In fact it's not such a big leap for Stallone. His pen-pusher sheriff turned righteous vigilante is a suburban Rambo; his hearing impediment and easy-going community cop character is a statutory version of Rocky.Stallone's acting was something of a revelation for me at the time. I agreed with many who decided that this was a different, previously unseen acting capability on show. It's actually not quite that radical, being more the case that he simply holds his own in an excellent cast. He does affect his trademark intensity though, which is just what's needed. De Niro runs the show, obviously enjoying the chance to get stuck into a procedural-thriller and there are nasty baddies essayed by Keitel, Liotta and the slimy Frank Vincent. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Cool cop-thriller","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After making a critically acclaimed debut with the low-budget independent drama Heavy, writer-director James Mangold took on this gritty crime drama, which was highly touted as Sylvester Stallone's long-awaited return to a serious dramatic role. With an illustrious cast of costars, including GoodFellas alumni Robert De Niro, Harvey Keitel, and Ray Liotta, Stallone plays Freddy Heflin, the ineffectual sheriff of a New Jersey suburb that a group of corrupt New York cops have turned into their own off-duty criminal empire. Deaf in one ear and desperate to prove his worth, the sheriff takes on the cops with standoffish assistance from an Internal Affairs cop (De Niro), resulting in an explosive climactic showdown. The stellar cast can't be beat, and Stallone is quite good as the overweight cop whose pride is on the line. Mangold's script is wildly uneven, but the film still packs a white-knuckled punch. "},{"Title":"Cop Land","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" So i was having my doubts of this movie, then after i saw De Niro starred it, i thought i would give it a shot.Well De Niro's performance wasn't the best, he had a crappy role in this one, And you didn't see much of him either.Anyway everybody is so surprised with Stallone's performance. The Stockholm film festival even gave him the award for the best actor in this movie. In my opinion that is a little overrated, he's acting wasn't that good but it was splendid if you compare to other performances.But it felt like the only thing good about this movie was the casting, Stallone,Liotta,De Niro,Kaitel etc. Like that's the only thing the makers of the movie had to say Maybe it's bad but we had a hell of a casting.Because the movie was obviously not a masterpiece. But it was an interesting story. But it gets slower and less exciting for each minute, and then you'll realize what s*it you're watching.And if you are expecting to see an action movie, then don't watch this, there is only a shootout scene in the later parts and a small one in the beginning.6/10 Worth watching but don't have high expectations like i did "},{"Title":"Interesting but flawed","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stallone was the star and had the lead role ahead of Robert De Niro and Harvey Keitel?? Stallone plays his best part since Rocky, as he portrays the hapless Freddy who is not a cop but dreams of being one, loves the girl but will never get her and is looked upon as a loser by the real cops.Getting his chance at redemption and to make things right in his eyes, Freddy decides to bring the corrupt cops to justice.My problem is that the bad guys are killed off. Much better for Freddy (somehow) to capture them and to bring them to justice.Interesting role for De Niro, he has more of a bit part than a main role.... "},{"Title":"My review is here almost ten years after watching Cop Land","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am going to watch this film again this weekend because I admit, it has been a very long time since I first saw it. But here is what I remember. The cast was perfect. Flawless. It was the best casting I had seen since Goodfellas. Stallone, DeNiro, Liotta, Keitel, all top drawer. No complaints there. Yes, the plot did have some bumps and rough spots in it (one must look hard to find a movie that does not) and I personally would have enjoyed some more action (I always do) but all in all I feel it was a much better film that most people give it credit for. Stallone will always be known as Rocky, and that is all well and good, but his acting and effort in this film was commendable. Liotta also shined brightly and Keitel has never disappointed me even when a movie he's in does. DeNiro most likely needed some more screen time but that certainly isn't his fault. I do recommend watching it, flaws and all. "},{"Title":"good cop drama,should have been better considering the talent involved","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i'm not sure what to say about this movie.i liked it sort of,i guess.it has an all star cast which all have pretty decent performances.but i thought Stallone really held his own among some real Hollywood heavyweights,including Harvey Keitel,Ray Liotta and Robert Deniro.i'm not really a Deniro fan.I think his acting skills are overrated.in this movie,he tends to overact somewhat.i also thought the dialogue was a bit repetitive and overdone.there are also somethings that don't make sense and are not explained.the directing was pretty good and the plot was fine.however,i think they could have done more with it.i also think they could have expanded the ending.it just felt unfinished somehow.overall,not a bad movie,but not great either. 6/10 "}{"Title":"About ACTOR Sylvester Stallone","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have always seen Sylvester Stallone as a good actor, not just a well-built-kill-them-all guy. He has proved this over the years, although his actor movies never reached some bigger credit. He proved that he is funny guy in Oscar and here, in Cop Land like a actor that can stand side by side with Robert De Niro, Harvey Keitel and the others. His character is well build, and he is doing perfect job performing it. What i like the most in Cop Land is his relationship with Annabella Sciorra's character, Liz Randone. It is a role that only a very good actor, like Stallone himself can perform. The body language, his movements, remind me of the roles of the best actors, in this particular moment, reminds me of Robert De Niro's performance in The Deer Hunter. I hope Stallone will manage to show us more of his acting, leaving aside all the Rocky and Rambo kind of movies. He is capable of that. Cop Land is a great movie. It is not just a movie about cops and their Sanctuary, the little town of Garrison, New Jersey, it is a movie about heroes, about justice and love. It is very underrated movie, much better that a dozen that won Academy Awards over the years. It is a movie that have a screenplay, leading role, supporting roles, camera and director for Oscars. Too bad The Academy didn't see that. "},{"Title":"Mixed Feelings","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have mixed feelings about this movie. On the one hand, I did find it entertaining, there were lots of different subplots, good dialog, and the movie definitely moved for me.But it's weird, I can't put my finger on why, nor can I exactly express it in words, but something about this movie just seems small. In my mind, when I compare it to a movie like The Godfather, which seems like a very large, weighty movie, this one just seems smalltime. I don't know why. I have the same feeling about Hoodlum, which also came out around this time -- interesting characters, good plot, lots of interesting subplots and dialog, and yet, it just seems small. One other movie that strikes me very similarly is A Bronx Tale. (Interestingly, De Niro was in that one too.) Contrast that with, say, Heat, which seems like a large movie to me. I wonder if anyone out there can help me articulate what I'm talking about. Is it the script? The direction? The acting? As I say, I can't put my finger on it. So can someone out there please pull my finger?Also, I see that many people here praise Stallone's performance. I found it simply competent, certainly not mesmerizing. I didn't think it was a very demanding role -- he simply had to portray someone who didn't really get that emotional about anything -- doesn't seem so hard to me. But what do I know! Liotta, on the other hand, is an emotional roller-coaster. (Although I found his crying when he learns of someone's death not believable -- you could see the acting.) "},{"Title":"Average movie, brings nothing new to a burnout genre.","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This has all been seen before, the movie is pretty well done, but it brings nothing new to a burnout genre, actually i was having positive thoughts far along the way despite this, but i felt the ending off it all seemed rushed and just generally wasn't very well done, the movie let itself down.Sylvester Stallone plays the sheriff of a small town called Garrison, his biggest dream is to become a real cop, as in he wants to be part of N.Y.P.D, however in his teen year he had his listening wrecked on one of his ears, making him incapable of having a job at N.Y.P.D. However the town he sheriff for houses a lot of the real cops from the big city, naturally he admires those as great heroes (and the movie actually makes him look a bit retarded at points) as they are his rolemodels, however after an mysterious suicide in town, the internal affairs cames to see him, investigating hisrolemodels and friends.As said earlier the movie much of the way works pretty well, but now that i look back at it, i was very dissapointed at the ending, that even though the movie was build up otherwise, still makes Stallone's character seem like a rambo.However the movie seriously wants to bring good stuff, but there is no doubt this is a genre which has already been run through a million times, it's hard to make an original story naturally, and this is not, it has all been seen before, and even though the movie does a pretty solid job, it just doesn't bring anything new to the genre, except a partly retarded cop that plays like he is mentally 11.The directing doesn't bring anything new to the movie either, infact there weren't anywhere in then movie where i thought well done, it feels pretty much like a standard job.For the acting i really disliked Stallone's chracter, especially when i look back at it, maybe it's because the ending wasn't too well done becuase he went from retard to hero, which i think is a bit unlikely, even though i'm sure he is a good cop. This movie has many good actors, none of them shines through other than De Niro though, i'm starting to doubt De Niro can make a poor job, he is once again excellent in this movie, even though his role isn't too large.I base my vote on many things i guess, it doesn't deserve a too low vote becuase it is a pretty good attempt and works much of the way and it'll keep you interested and not bored, even though there are scenes that could have been redone or removed, it still works pretty good for entertaining and has substance and a tad of moral as a movie like this needs to have. To the negative side i can only see that i think they paced it too much in the end, instead of giving a patient ending, like they had a patient opening they race the movie to the end and everything seems a bit unclear and confusing, and most importantly, unrealistic and Stallone returns to his stereotype hero role.5/10 "},{"Title":"Stallone's finest performance -- says who his agent?","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stallones finest performance says his agent...his publicist and his dry cleaner but please it is hardly oscar winning.This film is hugely disapointing. The plot is very cheesy and very badly potrayed. It is unclear who is who and why people are doing certain things.The first 20 minutes where very good until you realise the film is going nowhere and that the film has a style of simply being unclear, not from intelligence but from being badly done.(spoilers) The whole premise of the second half of the film is that the cops want to kill superboy but this does not even make sense. The major has already dropped the case so why bother?This film had potential but once you realise there is no substance you feel cheated. This may be recent Hollywood's attempt at an intellectual thriller type film but anybody with some intelligence will not accept the plot or storyline. The concept is good but that is as far as it goes.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great Acting Talent Wasted","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cop Land is the nickname of a small suburb in New Jersey, directly across the Hudson River from Manhattan. Its nickname is derived from the fact that it's a haven for a large coterie of NYPD officers who not only live there, but also run the place. If that's not bad enough, they're all on the take from the mob, who use Cop Land has a safe haven for seedy dealings.  The nominal sheriff, half-deaf, shy, bumbling Freddy Heflin (Stallone) starts to get suspicious after NYPD internal affairs begins to sniff around.This movie had the potential for greatness. The movie is heavy in acting talent; Stallone, Keitel, de Niro, Garafalo, Sciorra, Liotta. The promising premise and characters were primed and ready for a deft hand to lead them to cinematic victory. But the movie goes nowhere; it just doesn't gel. The direction and (especially) the screenwriting lose its compass, and the movie just drifts.  I feel badly for Stallone, who gained 40 pounds to play Heflin and launch his dramatic character-driven acting career. He, and the other actors deserved better, much better.  "},{"Title":"one of the best of 97","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a top notch crime drama with a great acting turn by Stallone.  Harvey Keital & Robert Patrick are great as corrupt cops (who you just love to have) Robert DiNero works in a supporting effort as not to out shine Stallone.  Ray Liotta also offers up a good portrayal of a cop trying to deal with his past.  Good drama & some suspense make for a very good film. "},{"Title":"So Much Potential...","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cop Land so full of potential, but James Magnold ruined his film by copying the finale of High Noon, pointless subplots,  having Robert De Niro play an undeveloped character, and obvious, illogical plot holes. This film begs to be remade.  I was, however, impressed with the fresh performance by Sylvester Stallone.  He needs to work for scale more often.  "},{"Title":"Despite its flaws, see it simply for the cast","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Touted as Sylvester Stallone's return to acting, Copland ends up a flawed film.  But not because of its acting. In fact, Copland should be seen simply for its impressive cast.  Like Barry Levinson's Sleepers, its ensemble cast of stars are used to paint a quiet story instead of some bombastic all-star show.  Stallone plays Freddy Heflin, the ineffectual deputy of a New Jersey suburb whose residents are primarily New York City police officers.  When a famous cop accidentally kills two motorists in what appears to be a racially motivated misunderstanding, his brutish Uncle Ray - played by Harvey Keitel in his usually satisfying a**hole mode - and his crew of crooked cops try to cover it up.  Stallone's help is sought out by a by-the-book investigator (De Niro) to unravel the case.  Warning Stallone to avoid any involvement is Ray Liotta as Figgsy, an isolated officer and concerned friend, who knows all too well what Uncle Ray and his crew are capable of.James Mangold - whose first film Heavy was a film so powerful I couldn't watch it more than once - has a wealth of talent and material here.  The number of stories told here are almost Altman-esque in how their intertwined.  The problem is, he doesn't share enough time with all the actors to really develop many of the sub-plots.  Quite simply, the film is over written.  Either that, or Mangold could have easily extended this film to three hours (or even more if he wished).  Still I'd recommend this film for the performances.  Everybody is great, Stallone pulls out a dim-witted version of Michael Corleone's 'suffering in silence' routine, and Ray Liotta spends the whole film in his Goodfellas Helicopters-are-following-me haze. De Niro, Keitel and everybody does fantastic.I especially loved the three schools of thought professed by the characters. Stallone and De Niro adhere to the belief of always doing the right thing no matter what the consequences are, Keitel and his cops believe in sticking up for your friends regardless of whether they're wrong or not, and Liotta's character demonstrates that no alliances should be formed at all, and you should only look out for yourself.  A flawed film, but worth at least one viewing. "},{"Title":"Not thrilling","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A surprisingly well-acting Sly Stallone is the only exceptional thing in this thriller that doesn't thrill. It reminds me of the film Sleepers, also with Robert De Niro many famous actors, some crimes blown up to a big deal, but no real surprises. For a thriller it's too boring, for a social drama it's much too trivial "},{"Title":"Great cast for a poor film.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best casted film I have ever witnessed.  Sylvester Stalone could not have been better as Freddy the town sheriff who takes a stand against corrupt cops squealing though his neighbor hood. *Spoiler Alert*(just to name a few)Robert Patrick and Harvey Kietel play corrupt cops who take it hard in the end. The film leaves you thinking if some bloke got all these great actors to be in his picture and it sucked then I could make a masterpiece with the biggest Hollywood top notch line up ever ensembled for a major motion picture. I think the main con in this film is its script, it has or should I say had a lot of potential that was taken in the wrong direction. It is a pretty bad film but I am sucker for New York crime movies, especial Scorsese pics, but over all I give it 6 out of 10 stars solely for that reason. "}{"Title":"Sorta like Wild Animal Park in bloody blue","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.Director James Mangold makes good use of Sylvester Stallone in this cop corruption saga while capturing the mentality of a small New Jersey town atmospherically named 'Garrison' (Fort Lee?), a town that serves as an inbred bedroom community for the NYPD blue. I could tell by the foliage that most of this was filmed during an eastern seaboard summer I could feel the humidity and it made me want to wring out my shirt and slap some mosquitoes.Stallone is very good as Sheriff Freddy Heflin, who was rejected for the NYPD because of a bum ear suffered saving a beloved girl's life. He's the simple sap who's not so simple, slow to anger, but once aroused, look out! (Compare to the ingredients of the Stallone Formula.) De Niro plays an Internal Affairs investigator while Harvey Keitel is his mortal enemy, a corrupt sleaze-ball cop. What I want to know is, was the choice of the name Figgis for Ray Liotta's part a director's inside joke? Incidentally, Liotta is entirely believable as a testosterone/coke-hyped cop wanting OUT.The story is reasonable as these things go, and the old style Western shoot 'em up near the end tolerable. I found some of the plot devices, such as Figgis finding Freddy in the burnt out house, and one of the corrupt cops popping up in the back seat of Freddy's patrol car, a little too convenient.(But a contrivance is better than lollygagging the plot.) I also thought the rationale for the cops' violent turning on their own a little underdeveloped and especially difficult to appreciate near the beginning of the film. The ensemble of corruption and degeneracy fully revealed however made sense. The sound track is excellent and the cinematography and backdrops make New Jersey along the Hudson almost picturesque.What Mangold proves here is he can conjure up an action/adventure ditty with the best of them. He's already made an excellent art film, Heavy (1995), and a superior and original coming of ager, Girl, Interrupted (1999). I believe that the romantic comedy and the epic cannot be far behind. For a young director with his talent, the only question (aside from money, chance and the availability of the box office buffos) is does he want to be a cinematic artist or a commercial artist? I hope he can be both.Best joke 'I didn't know they allowed classical music in New Jersey.' "},{"Title":"Big name cast, lackluster film","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CopLand is a film that is sure to disappoint. The film has an all-star cast, a reputable director, the backing of the Weinstein's, a decent story and never amounts to anything. If Stallone wanted this film to show his true acting ability to those who may have doubted him, he sure picked a bad film.The main problem that I had with this film was how it was presented. The film gets off to a good start with the usual helping of murders and the innocent man taking the fall (quite literally). However, after that the film slags along trying to follow too many characters, sub-plots and regular cop-film patterns (trouble brewing in the force, good-cop - bad-cop battles and the D.A. office out to get them) leaving the viewer bored and indifferent to anything that may happen to anyone in the film. Out of nowhere about an hour into the film, things start to pick up and the focus is aimed at one and only one aspect. Viewers are now into the film and perhaps the whole viewing experience could be saved. Nope, the film ends on a pointless gun shootout that comes from out of nowhere, serving no purpose and leaving the viewer completely unsatisfied. Perhaps the only good thing about the sudden ending of this film was in the early ending itself.I found all performances in this film to be below average with the exception of Ray Liotta, who at least gives an honest days work. Stallone, Keitel, DeNero, Patrick and Garofalo all give sleepy performances which is most unusual for them. I can only be led to think that each cared so little about this film and it clearly showed.I would not recommend this film to anyone unless you really have time to waste.4/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Bad ending","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A movie is as good as its ending.  With this rule of thumb in mind, Copland clearly blows it.  Nobody wants to invest 2 hours of their time only to be left with an empty feeling, but this is the case here.This could have been a terrific movie.  The beginning scenes are as good as any I've seen in a long time, while Stallone's character and the basic premise of the movie were compelling. Unfortunately, too many threads are left dangling at the end (such as Stallone's romantic interest and future career). An old Western-style shoot-out is used as a quick (let's not spend any more money) deus ex machina ending, and Stallone's decision to just shoot everyone is utterly indefensible.  That an upstanding and sincere sheriff who always wanted to be a cop would all of a sudden decide to shoot fellow cops, dirty or not dirty, is utterly indefensible and, of course, unbelievable.  It is also cheap, as in short-changing a poor viewer.  Too bad. When will Hollywood ever learn.Also, Liotta's character was distracting and confusing.  What was that all about?! "},{"Title":"A great movie =-D","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Has a touch of Film-noir and Sylvester Stallone and crew grow  the more the movie continued "},{"Title":"Stallone *acting* for the first time","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting to see Stallone trying hard to be a real actor. His role of the somewhat slowly-comprehending sheriff of copland is pretty convincing, although you sometimes see him thinking I must *not* solve this situation with an explosion.Near the end of the film some of the good-old Rambo/Rocky attitude shines through, but because of the deafness of his character it is an eerie shootout that ends the film. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ive seen.","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is high quality straigh ahead. Cop Land delivers good actors, Stallone  in his best role ever, Liotta excellent as always, De Niro and Keitel is as  always great.This movie has a place on my top 10. Excellent!Grade **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Great cast, too many plot holes","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Too many unlikely unrealistic occurrences--like the corrupt cops would openly parade the hidden cop at a party. Reality would demand that you would hide him like Ann Frank. That when the Stallone character wished to transport his witness to NYC, he would do it alone and not call the State Police, newspapers, the FBI etc., to cover and protect him and the witness. In the shootout scene, Stallone's shotgun jams. The cop attempting to shoot him, with his pistol already drawn, apparently waits for Stallone to draw his pistol. What's he doing, fighting a formal duel? Not the action of a hard-boiled, ruthless, corrupt cop. Even the original premise is a bit false, INTENTIONALLY trying to run you off the road into a wall, even though the media does not like it, is usually reason enough to justify the officer's use of deadly force. And the deadly weapon doesn't have to actually be one. The courts usually rule that if a reasonable man perceives it as a deadly weapon, the shooting is justified. As in the poor schmo who robs with a realistic-appearing toy gun. If the officer had the view we had, The Club sure looked like a firearm of some sort. Then you couple that with the exploding tire and you have a reasonable man perceiving a justified threat.The officer's shooting skill was like that of movie cowboys. After apparently imbibing a few, he's able to shoot, from a moving platform, at a fast-moving vehicle, with a short-barreled weapon, thru steel, rubber, upholstery, etc. well enough to kill two people. Sure. The reason for the animosity between the Keitel character and the DeNiro character is never explained. Too bad all this great acting talent had to be wasted on a swiss cheese story. "},{"Title":"Dreary,boring and hard to follow","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Copland at a movie marathon,along with Spawn and Scream 2.The only reason I reluctantly sat through it was because it was the first film shown of the three.If it had been the last,I would not be writing this review because I would have walked out in the first ten minutes.And what,can somebody please tell me,was Stallone trying to prove when he demanded minimum wages for the film and gained 40 pounds of fat?To shake off his Rambo image?That he can be a serious actor that goes to great lengths to make his character as believable as possible?No,that he was trying desperately hard to CONVINCE us of those things.The film as a whole is a complete waste of time.You get the feeling that all the time and money spent on this flick could have been used much more constructively.And you also get the feeling that all the talented actors in this film(Robert De Niro,Harvey Kietel)should have been somewhere else,making another movie.There is really nothing good to say about Copland.It fails in all departments.Suspenseful action,interesting story and believable acting.An interesting thing that happened at the the movie marathon that is worth noting is that as soon as Spawn began(the second movie)someone yelled outTHIS is a BETTER movie!I think everyone in the cinema agreed. "},{"Title":"Bad CopLand","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Despite some interesting elements, notably its cast of fine actors, this is a film that just doesn't work. From the very beginning, its cop corruption subplot overwhelms its more subtle main storyline of a slow-witted sheriff's inner conflict. Writer James Mangold's canvass is too broad, suffers from superfluous characters and some silly, unrealistic passages.As for the acting, much was made of Stallone's image altering performance and while he does subtle well, it's not unlike what he did in the original Rocky. Keitel, Liotta and De Niro give their trademark intense performances, which are effective but very familiar. "},{"Title":"The Only Stallone Acting I've Ever Witnessed","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I heard a rumor that Sylvester Stallone acted... actually acted... in this film. I had my serious doubts, because I have now seen more than half (the majority) of Stallone's films, and I don't recall ever seeing any acting, with the possible exception of Tango and Cash.Here, Stallone is a sheriff in a New Jersey town that is populated almost completely with cops (due to a technicality about New York police having to live in New York and some such silliness). He stumbles across a plot where another cop (Michael Rapaport) has faked his death and is being assisted by Harvey the Wolf Keitel and Robert the T-1000 Patrick. Can Stallone, Ray Liotta and Robert DeNiro crack the case? I have already mentioned Stallone's acting. So, let me also give credit to Liotta for his ability to be washed-up (who knew?) and the award for most overlooked actor goes to Robert Patrick, who was so completely unlike his other roles and was so good at being a small-town cop that he blended right into the woodwork. If you need an actor in your film without paying millions for quality, call this man.Michael Rapaport, on the other hand, is overly cheesy and was the weak part of this film.There is a deaf sequence where the film-makers wanted us to experience the deafness. It's brilliant. There's a car chase scene in a tunnel, also very nice. And the relationship problems when the cops all sleep around with other cop wives? Oh my! You're going to like this movie if you love gritty, corrupt cop movies (as opposed to lighter corrupt cop movies like LA Confidential).... and if that isn't enough, here's the deal-breaker the absolutely luscious Janeane Garofalo! While cop pants don't really flatter her, there's no denying she's beautiful. (Try and dent it, I dare you.) "}{"Title":"Up to snuff.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In this better-than-average cop movie we get to see the rooftops of some of those tall buildings in New York City. There is some weird stuff up there, including the castle of Ludwig, the Mad King of Bavaria.The rest of the movie takes place in a small peaceful middle-class community in northern New Jersey, full of adultery, murder, the Mob, corruption, deceit, arson, embezzlement, and michigas.Silvester Stallone is the Sheriff of Garrison, New Jersey, deaf in one ear, unable to make the cut for the NYPD, and biding his time while handing out the occasional traffic ticket and turning his good ear away from what all those New York City cops are up to, making hundreds of thousands of dollars protecting a drug operation.The entire cast is good. How could it not be? Look at the NAMES -- not just stars but actors. And yet Stallone, in the central performance, gives us a fully fleshed quiet man in terrible conflict. He really does the best job of his career. In the original Rocky he was a mope who found himself, a simple transition. In this movie he doesn't simply change from one thing to another; he vacillates, hesitates, shows us both guilt and intelligence. If he's not Marlon Brando in On the Waterfront, he gives this similar role everything he's got and it works for him. (Location shooting in industrial New Jersey always brings out the best in an actor, whether Brando or Stallone.) It's not a great movie. The central crime -- that drug money business -- is too quickly spelled out and then not mentioned again. The movie deals with the necessary consequences of the Big Sin, murders and coverups. The violence is muted throughout but there is a fairly conventional shootout at the end.The script has its occasional weak points. The characters and their motives become more scrambled than necessary. And, really, Stallone is deaf in one ear. It gives him the audience's immediate sympathy, but it's necessary to the story because it keeps him from the NYPD. But did he have to lose his hearing during a heroic rescue of a submerged care with a woman inside? At least his sacrifice could have been shown as pointless, if we were told the victim had died anyway. As it stands, it looks like a very familiar incident.The photography is well above average. Note the scene when Ray Liotta and Stallone are chasing Superboy down a small empty road through the woods. The lighting and photography are outstanding in evoking the atmosphere of bushy desolation.Stallone has gotten a bit heavier and has a slight paunch. It makes him more nearly human than that Leonardo Da Vinci anatomical cartoon that he sported for so many years. It's easier to believe a man who looks the way Stallone does now, easier to believe that he's possessed by unfulfilled longings -- a love for Annabella Schiora or a yearning to be a real cop -- and not just in thrall to narcissism.Worth watching. "},{"Title":"I'll be quick and to the point","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film that is naratively too long and quite confusing.  With some more editing this problem would be solved and is my only real major criticism of the text.The cinematography and music is great but the main reason to watch this film is the totally stunning performance that Stallone puts in in this film. Honestly, it really is unbelievable to see him act as well as all of the supporting cast - who are heavyweights themselves.  I can honestly say that I couldn't take his excellence in; if you really want to be shocked then watch Rocky IV first.An interesting and impressively intense, if flawed, crime caper. "},{"Title":"Stallone's best - but that's not much of a compliment","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Much was made of Cop Land on its release.  Here was Sylvester Stallone turning his back on lobotomised action films, moving (or returning, depending on your sympathies) to an ensemble character piece.  With 40 pounds of pancakes puffing him up to a flabby everyman, his Freddy Heflin is a lifetime loser.  Deaf in one ear, kept off the NYPD, working as a lowly sheriff, he's got wood for some girl he played hero to years ago.  She married a real cop; he's busy cheating on her.  Heflin is irrelevant to just about everyone, a child to the adults on the job.  It's some distance from the one-dimensional cartoon characters that have dominated Stallone's career.It's widely held that Cop Land came to him after a string of poor choices in the early 90s, but that only really counts if you're talking about money or if you like his early work.  The lean years of The Specialist, Assassins, Daylight and Judge Dredd are only lean if you consider the load of boxing movies and generic actioners that came before them worthwhile.  For me, Cop Land provides less a return to form, more a new form entirely.  But I've always liked Stallone, even if I've never much liked his movies, and it's pleasing to see him in something of this quality.  He brings a surprising quality himself, his Heflin a likeable, lonely, disappointed man wondering what might have been had his heroism not lost him his hearing.  He holds his own among an ensemble cast that includes Robert DeNiro, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, Janeane Garofalo, Robert Patrick, Cathy Moriarty and Annabella Sciorra.  That takes some doing.Heflin's town is Garrison, New Jersey.  Actually, it's everyone's town but his A bunch of cops wanting out of New York found a way around the rule that keeps them living in the city.  They bought a chunk of New Jersey, filled its houses with cops and lived happily ever after.  Heflin, who years ago rescued Sciorra from a car on its way to the bottom of a river, was hired as sheriff and expected to turn a blind eye to just about everything. In a town full of cops, where cops can break the law because they're cops, there's no law to be enforced, and time is better spent returning lost toys to toddlers and breaking up fights between school kids.  Such is Heflin's lot in life.But maybe there are some things he can't overlook.  One of Garrison's favourite sons, Murray 'Superboy' Babitch, is driving drunk when his car is rammed by another on the GW bridge.  Its passenger opens fire on Babitch, his tyre explodes, he empties his gun into the back of the car before crashing into it.  When the NYPD show up, they fail to find a gun on either of the two bodies.  Turns out the passenger was just holding a steering wheel lock and Babitch's tyre blew at the wrong time.  Robert Patrick plants a gun to help the kid out but is seen by a do-gooder paramedic who throws it into the river, neatly screwing up these dirty cops' good work.  So here's Superboy driving drunk, killing two unarmed men.  Nothing left to do but dive off the bridge while no one but Harvey Keitel is looking.Nothing much seems to happen for the next hour.  Maybe too much happens, none of it fully explored.  Heflin thinks maybe Superboy is alive, which means the men on the bridge aided and abetted but he can't let himself believe it.  He seems troubled but too used to apathy to do anything, too insecure to challenge the real cops that surround him.  He suspects his friend is a coke user and insurance fraudster but does little to prove or disprove his fears.  He thinks maybe he's got a shot with married damsel-in-distress Sciorra but doesn't make much progress.  There are so many things going on that each element is denied the time it deserves. There's a fine line between letting things stay unresolved and letting things go by undeveloped, and it's hard to say on which side of the line Cop Land sits.  Given the brief running time and how many things are left open it's good news that a director's cut is on the way.  Given that the director went on to make the nave Girl Interrupted and the silly Identity, maybe it's not good news after all.So where exactly are we with Cop Land?  An outstanding cast that turns in solid but not outstanding performances.  A story that only simmers for most of its running time, its threads left hanging either deliberately or through poor writing and impossible to guess which.  A generic ending that puts Garrison in the Wild West and sees violence as redemption.  If this sounds indecisive it's because there are an equal number of things for which to admire and criticise Cop Land.  Considerably less than the sum of its parts, it's a solid but slight film.  Hardly the masterpiece its cast promises.It's by far the best Stallone film, but for most of the cast it doesn't represent a high point.  Is it among the best DeNiro movies?  The best Keitel movies?  Nope.  Cathy Moriarty has Raging Bull.  Ray Liotta has Goodfellas.  Robert Patrick has Terminator 2.  Stallone will have only Cop Land.  His career since - the unpopular remake of Get Carter, the Playstation-influenced Driven, the mind-numbing D-Tox and the abysmal Spy Kids 3D - makes Cop Land a sore thumb, a teasing glimpse of what might have been had Stallone made this kind of choice more often.  He deserves better material but probably won't get it, not taken seriously by the people who matter.  So while Rocky and Rambo will always be his signature roles, Stallone now seems to have more in common with Freddy Heflin. "},{"Title":"great acting for such a lousy movie.","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  script and story pretty terrible. like a television series brought to the movies. excellent cast,including better than average performances from ray liotta, and robert denero..excellent performance from harvey keital as the police officer ray. story ill conceived and ending unbelievably stupid. The basic concept of the story is very good, but it drags on into pure stupidity. Denero looks like he did it for the paycheck like backdraft.But keitel and liotta, shine. try to make it work, but it cant be done. should be called crapland.. "},{"Title":"So much promise, such a poor result...","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with the majority, Stallone proves that his acting is up to  scratch here.   Aside from this, despite the extremely promising cast, the film is a huge flop for me.  I heard that De Niro (my favourite actor) was teaming up with Keital, Liotta and Stallone, amongst a very good supporting cast (Robert Patrick, Michael Rapaport, Janeane Garofalo), and I mistakenly thought that the film would be a winner. How wrong could I be, the story was plausible, but not pulled off.  With a cast like this, and a story that isn't all bad, I expected more from this movie.   3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Epitome Of Mediocrity","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `Bad Good Guys' Copland rated R, 1 hour and 50 minutesGarrison County, New Jersey is a small town founded by a group of cops corrupted by the mob. Freddie Heflin, played by Sylvester Stallone, is the only decent cop in present day Garrison. Little by little, Freddie pieces together the web of conspiracy, which he becomes tangled in. Or so it is supposed to be, because actually, Heflin is acquiring information faster than the audience can comprehend it, leaving us with more of a scramble of lies, than a full-blown conspiracy. This is only one of the movie's many flaws.Who is good and who is bad, soon becomes obvious, considering Stallone is virtually the only clean cop on the streets of New Jersey. The movie continues by throwing scattered information in all directions for no apparent reason, and ends without giving a respectable explanation as to why all these cops have fallen into the hands of corruption.The most, and conceivably the only intriguing character seems to be Ray Donlan, portrayed by classic gangster, Harvey Keitel of &#145;Reservoir Dogs'. Donlan is Garrison's head honcho, who runs the police department, as well as the mob. The main reason that Ray Donlan offers such appeal is because Harvey Keitel is without a doubt one of the better actors starring in the movie, and stated simply, compared to Ray the other characters are boring.The chances of finding a real to life sequence in this movie are slim to none, as in any typical &#145;shoot em up' Stallone movie. Despite its generally poor cinematography, there was one very unique scene. In this particularly captivating scene, a gun is fired exceedingly close to Freddie's ear, resulting in the full deafness of his ear. The viewer now perceives everything through the eyes and partially deaf ears of Freddie Heflin, producing a scene worthy of the description, clever. While Freddie struggles to survive against Ray Donlan and his men, all that can be heard are the faint noises that Freddie hears. Yes, this attribute of Copland can be admired, but not many other positive comments can be made about Copland.Copland, directed by James Mangold, also starring Robert DeNiro deserves a mediocre C-. "},{"Title":"Another Stallone misfire","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had great expectations for this movie, Robert DeNiro, Harvey Keitel, and Ray Liotta were in it, so it had to be a little better than your average Stallone flick, but it wasnt.  The plot was so familiar and boring, and the actors are just energizing crappy material.  It's sad that Stallone has to keep making these bad movies, maybe he'll make a comeback, but I doubt it. *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A really awful movie that wasted a killer (excuse the pun) cast!  Stallone under-acts, Liotta and Robert Patrick over-do, and DeNiro has his eye on pay day.  For a guy from Jersey, this is a big disappointment. "},{"Title":"What a Wasted Opportunity","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie falls short on so many levels, it's hard to completely identify all of them here and do each one justice. Let's start with what was probably the major selling point of the film when it first came out We were going to see Stallone finally give a real, nuanced performance. What a letdown. As others have said, his Freddy character comes across more as mildly retarded than broken-spirited. Next up The great cast. Another huge underachievement. Some of the best actors turn in some of their worst performances. Kietel brings none of his usual charm or depth to a role that required at least a fake persona of trustworthiness, to make his ringleader role seem believable. DeNiro (whom, admittedly I have always found a tad overrated and limited in the types of roles he can play) absolutely mails this one in. The others are given little else to do except stand around and play tough guy/disenchanted wife/scared subordinate as the case may be. Sure, Ray Liotta chews some scenery, but it somehow winds up seeming out of place compared with the tone of the movie. Finally, the plot is absolutely ludicrous. The idea that Superboy would somehow live in a water tower after the events that transpired is comical. And does Freddy have absolutely no one else he can call when transferring Superboy out of the police station, so much so that he gets jumped, alone, by two of Kietel's goons in broad daylight right outside the station? Ever heard of a phone Freddy? To other Jersey cops, to the media, to the FBI? All in all, a bizarre and just plain weird movie that winds up being so much less than the sum of its parts. In that regard, I have to agree with a previous poster named Yisraelh, who says that there is just something wrong with this movie that is hard to identify. I know exactly what he or she means. Even having listed many of its flaws above, there is still something about this movie that is just not right, that is hard to put a finger on, though God knows I've tried. In this way, the comparison to Sleepers is completely apt. Another movie that seems to miss the mark for elusive reasons (though I could detail some of the exact same complaints for that movie regarding performances, plot, etc.) On a final note, I grew up in exactly the same area that this movie is supposed to have taken place, and it does a very half-ass job of capturing the sense of location. Geography gets screwed up, and the areas directly over the GWB are portrayed as being a lot more working class/blue collar than they actually are. That area is further south, closer to Cliffside Park/West New York/Weehawken. A minor complaint for most who are not familiar with the area, but just one more thing for me that adds to this movie's distanced and out of touch feel. "},{"Title":"Cop Land","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this film I thought it was pretty rubbish, but seeing it again it isn't so bad. Obviously it isn't a film I would see that much, but most of it is pretty good action and cop drama. Basically Sheriff Freddy Heflin (Sylvester Stallone) always wanted to be a cop in the NYPD, but when he was young there was a car crash off a bridge into the water, and rescuing the victim he was left with a bad ear that ruined his dream. Also, the person he rescued, Liz Randone (Annabella Sciorra) has gone her separate way and made her own family life. The big event of the film is involving murder and racial conspiracy, all happening in his town, and he is stopping at nothing to solve the case and show his capabilities. He also has help from friends, most professionals in the NYPD, including Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel), Gary 'Figgsy' Figgis (Ray Liotta), Lt. Moe Tilden (Robert De Niro), Joey Randone (Peter Berg), his partner Deputy Cindy Betts (Janeane Garofalo), Jack Rucker (Robert Patrick) and Deputy Bill Geisler (The Truman Show's Noah Emmerich). Not all of what happens in the film is eye catching, and I can only remember the concluding scenes where Freddy has a gun fired next to his ear, and after having deafness shoots many other cops, all villains. Worth watching, at least once! "}{"Title":"Serious actor???!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was with a bit of excitement that my husband and I took place in front of the television to watch this movie, which had the reputation of being the movie, in which Sylvester Stallone would prove his worth as a serious actor..... We watched for a loooong time, and finally it was over. Mediocre screenplay and definately mediocre acting by a man, who normally gets million dollar fees for his acting in other mediocre action movies. In this movie he is supposed to have decimated his fee for a chance to prove his talent to the world... Too bad Sylvester! You better stick to your normal fees, as this certainly made no difference in our impression of your ... talent ... what so ever... "},{"Title":"Great Cast - Dumb Plot","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The plot of this movie is so dumb - that essentially there is no plot.  But the actors consist of a who's who of macho, strong male actors for whom taking action is foremost - except for one... Sylvester Stallone - a lonely, partially hearing impaired outsider - being taken advantage of by the likes Harvey Keitel, Robert De Niro and anyone who comes across his path ... do we care about any of these characters? - no - nothing makes sense ... but these are a stellar group of actors ... do any of the artificial conflicts make sense? - there are issues between country and city, evil and good, action and passivity, justice and corruption ... dialectics never had it so good. But do we care? Not really - because so little in this movie make much sense? Even the action scenes are cliched - silliness and and a sense of unreality reign throughout.Is this movie worth seeing? Actually yes.  Compare it to any episode of Law and Order and one can see the relative lack of  realism and common sense. Indeed, Copland could be entitled No Law and Order. But, what it does have in its favour is the talented cast of superstar male actors (the few female characters are never developed).This movie is very watchable ... just don't ask too many questions.  "},{"Title":"Cops fighting cops.","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film had a great cast with the potential for a good story.  I was very disappointed.  Probably the worst film I saw in 1997.  Stallone plays a small town cop who discovers unpoliceman-like conduct among NYC officers who live in his New Jersey town.  Keitel leads the NYC police who are dedicated to conducting justice on their own terms.  They want Stallone to keep out of their way and will do anything to protect themselves.  DeNiro plays a prosecutor who is onto Keitel's band and tries to expose them.  Stallone drags the story through with little enthusiasm and his hands tied behind his back.  The writing is very poor and the story is too long and dull.  The somewhat exciting shootout at the end couldn't even save this film.      "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies of all time","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry. I am a big DeNiro and Keital fan. I love thrillers and this is my top 5 worst movies of all time. The biggest problem is that it doesn't flow. It's has no story and all in all just a horrible film. I would rather not think how bad the movie could have been without the top actors it had. We have all waited for the thriller mafia kings DeNiro and Keital to both star in the same film and we get this garbage. As for Stallone, stick to action, you don't belong here. "},{"Title":"Absolute Crap","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie in years. Sylvester Stallone cannot act at all in this movie. Robert de Niro is in another crap cop movie. he is also terrible. This movie is long, and without the big name actors offering no good acting at all, this movie would have gone straight to video, not that a video shop would want this movie in its store! When is Hollywood going to realise that the macho cop film is not something viewers want to see! If you do watch this movie, good luck - you'll need alot of coffee and a remote with a big fast forward button on it. "}]