[{"Title":"a masterpiece, true art","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"49 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie which rewards at many levels. Its characters are fleshed out human beings capable of good and evil and in the grips of intense suffering, not the formulaic cardboard creations which populate so many recent Hollywood productions. The movie's atmosphere and mood are thick and the bleakness of the New Hampshire winter comes alongside its beauty and majesty. Paul Schrader achieves here what has eluded the Coen brothers in Fargo. The photography of Paul Sarossy is of a rare beauty and his compositions are breathtaking. Think of the scene of the two brothers in the barn lit by light sneaking in through the slits in the wood exterior, the beauty of the snow covered New Hampshire chalets, the camera receding from the barn fire until we get to watch it through a slightly off-center picture-window from the main house, and finally think of the snow in its serenity, its menace, its domination. The two stories are so naturally intertwined that one can spend most of the time convinced one is watching a thriller, until in the end this thriller dissolves into the main story which explores the violent undercurrents of human love and bonding. This whole is as thick and rich as cream.I am in awe of Nick Nolte's spectacular performance. It is honest, complex and totally convincing. Nolte is ably supported by James Coburn and others. This is moviemaking at its best.  "},{"Title":"One of the year's best films; brilliantly acted and directed. **** (out of four)","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  AFFLICTION / (1997) **** (out of four) By Blake French	Dysfunctional families have always been the subject of motion pictures. Recently, with movies like American Beauty and The Story of Us, Hollywood has portrayed American households as candidates to be on the next TV tabloid talk show. Paul Schrader's dramatic portrayal of a troubled family in Affliction is as intense as any suspense thriller released within the past few years. The thought-provoking power of his script, based on the novel by Russell Banks, and the methods he uses to execute the vivid, interpretative character study creates more than just a sense of emotion and empathy, but places the audience in the character's shoes, allowing us to explore a tense atmosphere on our own.	The movie looks into the life of a struggling person named Wade Whitehouse, played with extreme intensity by the descriptive Nick Nolte. He is the lowly sheriff of a small backwoods in New Hampshire. Nothing much happens in Lawford, however, thus Wade is usually restricted to plowing the snowy streets and serving as the local school's crossing guard. His ex-wife, Lillian (Mary Beth Hurt), has most custody of their daughter, Jill (Brigid Tierney), and neither relative enjoys his company. Wade's alcoholic father, Glen (James Coburn in an Oscar worthy performance), who abused him and his brother Rolfe (Willem Dafoe) as children, continues to abuse him emotionlly.The subtle town of Lawford is turned upside-down when a rich businessman is mysteriously killed while hunting with Wade's friend, Jack Hewitt (Jim True). Finally given something to investigate, Wade takes his job seriously, even when complications arise when his mother dies, his brother comes home from Boston, and his waitress girlfriend (Sissy Spacek) meets Wade's parents and realizes what she gotten herself into.	As Wade's life starts to completely unravel, the filmmakers neglect to leave out any details; from flashback of his fathers abuse to an uncompromising toothache, Wade is developed vividly and clearly. The movie is best when allowing Nick Nolte and James Coburn to come to terms with each other's hatred for each other. The performances are what make this movie much more distinct than similar but lesser films like The Other Sister and The Story of Us, and even better acted than the masterpiece Award winner American Beauty.	Instead of milking the dysfunctional family material to the maximum, the film also has tender dialogue and heartfelt scenes that exhibit a loving relationship between Wade and his girlfriend. These scenes make even more tragic the production's unsettling conclusion and increase the overall dramatic impact, which is tremendous. 	By the end of Affliction, like in The Ice Storm, we feel for the main character's losses. Although this film is more conclusive, it is also unmerciful; we receive no happy ending, no satisfying motifs, this movie takes itself seriously and has no pity, regrets, or agreements. For Wade Whitehouse, the climax of the movie represents death, grief and sorrow. For us, we can only stare at the screen and try to comprehend what we have experienced through his eyes. "},{"Title":"What it is to be a man","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Based on a novel by Russell Banks who also wrote The Sweet Hereafter, and directed by Paul Schrader of Raging Bull and The Mosquito Coast fame, the winter landscape and cold bleakness of the town sets the tone for this exploration of the dark legacy of what it is to be a man.Nick Nolte stars in this dark story of a the lone policeman in a small New Hampshire town investigating a hunting accident. James Coburn is excellent as Nick Nolte's father, a brutal and angry old man who typifies a sick machismo which has in turn afflicted his son. His acting is extraordinary as is Nolte's although their styles are different. Noltle is subtle; his facial expressions are controlled and typical of a man who has learned to hold in emotion.  Coburn's face, on the other hand, is more deeply expressive;  his eyebrows move, his mouth hardens, his eyes glare.This is the kind of dark, brooding movie that I like.  For a brief few hours I enter its world and get completely absorbed in the characters in the way I did with A thousand Acres or The Horse Whisperers.  Like these films, there are no easy answers and the conclusion does not wrap up in a neat little Hollywood package that is soon forgotten.   "},{"Title":"A disturbing examination of the fruits of abusive parenting.","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have watched this movie several times and reflected on the negative criticisms of others on this message board. And while I agree that some of the performances were flawed and that an evening spent watching it can hardly be called entertainment, still, in terms of its writer's objectives, which are summed up in Rolf's concluding VO (which I quote below), in my opinion Affliction it is a superb accomplishment.I write thusly because I as a child -- as I must suppose the writer was also -- was beaten often and most violently by a totally out-of-control father who himself was the product of his father's violence. Which is not to say that I did not afford ample provocations for sound thrashings (or possibly a more effective form of chastisement, for, as the proverbial fool, I indeed kept returning to my follies), still there are limits. Nevertheless, I have thought often of the effect these beatings must have had in shaping my personality and destiny -- and being now some 85 years of age, I have had a very long post, post graduate course in introspection.Whatever, the writer's conclusions did indeed resonate with me, and well written they were indeed ROLFE (V.O.) The historical facts are known by everyone -- all of Lawford, all of New Hampshire, some of Massachusetts.Facts do not make history. Our stories, Wade's and mine, describe the lives of boys and men for thousands of years, boys who were beaten by their fathers, whose capacity for love and trust was crippled almost at birth and whose best hope, if any, for connection with other human beings lay in an elegiac detachment, as if life were over.It's how we keep from destroying in turn our own children and terrorizing the women who have the misfortune to love us; how we absent ourselves from the tradition of male violence; how we decline the seduction of revenge. "},{"Title":"Great performances make this small indie effort","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For what is considered a small, independent film, this movie is packed with brilliant performances by two great actors.  James Coburn is the dark, angry patriarch of an abusive household, whose abuse and anger are inherited by his son(Nolte).  The story is told by the youngest brother (played mainly in voice-over and a small cameo by Willem Dafoe), and traces the events of a small town murder investigation that leads to the mental collapse of Nolte's cop character.  The film weaves us through a buffet of sub-plots and bit characters (including a nice appearance by Sissy Spacek), which is at times whish-washed.  However the tone and style of the film are quite fresh and unique.Penned and directed by Paul Schrader, who will probably always be known for writing Taxi Driver, the film is a stylish take of what is most likely a much better novel.  The tone is cold and dark, and serves as the perfect backdrop for the anger and isolation of the two male characters. In my opinion, the voice-over narration takes away from the feeling the picture leaves, basically serving the purpose to tell us what to feel. The images and performances on the screen do a fine job in dong that on it's own, without re-enforcment.  On a whole, the film is powerful and moving, and is a great look into the heart and soul of lives that are truely tortured.  I would recommend this film if for no other reason than to see the brilliant performances of James Coburn (Oscar winner) and Nick Nolte (Oscar nominee).     "},{"Title":"A great piece of acting","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is the best film I've seen for a while. I don't understand all that whining and complaining about the weak plot or how depressing the film was. Well life is depressing at times. And more than tells a story, Affliction draws a beautifully sharp picture of one desperate, troubled but goodhearted man's breakdown. Nolte's acting is awesome and he sets into the role perfectly. I think he should have won the Oscar, although Coburn was great too and deserved his price. With it's snowy scenery and small town murder mystery Affliction shares similarities to Twin Peaks. I also like films that include some kind of a statement towards the world around us, and that's what Affliction does. "},{"Title":"Deep, complex, depressing","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction doesn't have an immediate plot.  It's mostly a delve into a man's (Nick Nolte) psyche, a divorced alcoholic man who was abused as a child by his drunken father (James Coburn).  He tries to cope, he tries to make something of himself by attempting to solve a hunting accident which he thinks is really a murder.  He claims that after this, everyone will remember him as a hero.Luckily the audience isn't made to believe Nolte's cause, to us he looks just as mad as he does to the characters around them.  This is well done, because it could've been presented as some big twist at the end.Anyway, the mystery element to the film isn't that important.  It's mostly about how hard - and almost impossible - it is to prevent an emotionally abused man to make the same mistakes his father made.  This idea is presented well, but by the end it just feels so thick and depressing that it's hard to take anything from the film, because you don't want to remember it.Acting-wise the movie is quite good.  Nolte delivers what I think is his best performance here, with a quiet desperation wonderfully put out by his eyes, voice, face, and so on.  James Coburn does his usual well, but I have to question just why he won an Oscar for this.  Don't get me wrong, he was a terrific actor and his performance in this is great, but he's not in many scenes, and the scenes he is in are mostly just a variation of the same thing Coburn drunkenly and violently mumbles at his sons and eventually starts to yell and thrash.  This is all well and good, but his scenes never go beyond that, except for (maybe) at the end when he spews his own sort of twisted philosophy to Nolte.Other great performances come from Sissy Spacek as Nolte's increasingly uneasy girlfriend. Also Willem Dafoe as Nolte's brother who is so concerned with being quiet and not problematic that he cant prevent the build-up of violence and abuse in his family.  I'd say that this performance is more Oscar worthy than Coburn's.This is a good movie with a great message, but it doesn't put enough on the table, 7/10. "},{"Title":"A great study in despair","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a perfect example of how the sins of the father are not only visited upon the son, but are perpetuated by him, and serve to visit and affect others as well.  There is one story line here  Wade Whitehouse, town police constable of Lawford, New Hampshire was raised by an abusive alcoholic grouch of a father.  He has remained in the town while his siblings have fled.  His terrible relationship with his father has infiltrated every relationship that he's had, and acts as the lens through which he sees and judges the world.  Because of this, his relationships with different people are all ambivalent  He either respects them and turns to them as a pupil would his master, or he hates them, and violently lashes out at them because they have disappointed him in upholding his preconceived 'high assessments' of them.  Wade is very unstable in that he seems to have a drinking problem, an inability to manage his anger, and as a result but also as a constant circuitous reason, a very low moral view of himself. In this elliptical plot, an important crystallizing event is the hunting accident that results in the death of a rich Bostonian with suspected links to organized crime named Evan Twombley, whose son in law--Mel Gordon--is in business with Wade's boss, Gordon LaRiviere (whom Wade both admires and despises).  The New Hampshire State Police seem to think this is an open and shut case of accidental death  Twombley goes hunting with Wade's young friend Jack, winds up shooting himself, and that's that.  However to Wade, this is not the end of the story.  Wade's low assessment of himself, his having to deal with his father more closely after his mother's recent death, his financial destitution and reliance upon Gordon LaRiviere, as well as his failing attempt to have a close relationship with his estranged daughter Jill and ex-wife Lillian causes him in a desperate act of self assertion of his 'authority' to insist that Twombley was in fact murdered, and that all characters that surround him--his boss Gordon, Jack, and Mel--are involved in a sinister plot to not only get away with murder, but to deceive him and make him look foolish.  As Wade's fantasy elaborately blooms into a wonderfully baroque and intricate starcaise to psychosis, his relationships with the people of Lawford and particularly with his close friends and family rapidly begin to deteriorate.  Watching this occur is like witnessing an avalanche, and exemplifies Kierkegaard's assertion that one does not hit rock bottom in despair, but instead can always sink lower, perhaps infinitely.  Needless to say, the film does not end on a happy note, yet I would commend this film to anyone because the plot is intense, the cinematography is excellent, and Schrader's directing is magnificent.  "},{"Title":"Intense, raw, and uncomfortable","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have seen this movie in bits and pieces, because it was difficult for me to watch it all the way through and digest it all at one time.Paul Schrader's movies can have a dark, unsettling edge to them, and this movie is no exception.Maybe because I brought personal baggage to the table while watching this, is why this movie gripped me so much. I have alcoholic relatives in my immediate and extended family, and I have seen what their anger and destructive behavior hath wrought.Nick Nolte and James Coburn's characters made me squirm. Coburn received a best supporting Oscar for his role, and it is well-deserved. His character is a mean, vengeful, hateful alcoholic who inflicts his pain on others and afflicts one of his sons, Wade, played by Nick Nolte.Very gripping and intense family drama. "},{"Title":"Affliction Clearly Schrader's Best Film To Date","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Roger Ebert described it well. The effects of abuse are similar to implanted medication. It continues to seethe inside the victim long after the original event or implantation. Nick Nolte stars as Wade Whitehouse, a shell of a man about to lose everything he has and knows, including his sanity, due just as much to his inability to learn to function as a person outside of the abusive environment he grew up in as his overbearing father's alcoholic stupors and redneck machismo. Nolte's mumbling has been criticized as indecipherable hogwash, but it's consistent with a person who has lost direction, confidence in himself, and his reason for being long ago. James Coburn plays Glen Whitehouse, Nolte's father, winning the best supporting actor Oscar for his mind-blowing portrayal of an abusive father who has simply played the same record over and over and over for many many years. Coburn's acting is a rare treat; in that, every action, gesture, nuance, and word of dialog coming out of his mouth makes up a portrait of abuse hanging in an imaginary gallery of contempt. Ironically, Wade and Glen share the name Whitehouse, which of course symbolizes purity, goodness, and an idyllic existence all rolled into one but in reality is everything but that. Nolte's character is a small town sheriff with nothing much to do except plow snow and double as a school crossing guard until a hunting accident occurs and uncovers a possible financial conspiracy. Meanwhile, Nolte must deal with fighting his ex-wife (Mary Beth Hurt) for custody of his daughter who has either been programmed by Hurt against Nolte or has other reasons for disliking him. Every aspect of and social interaction in Nolte's life reduces him to nothingness, whether he tries to buy his daughter a hamburger, plead with his ex-wife (Hurt), give a person a ticket for a moving violation, interact with his best friend or his boss, or has cross words with his father (Coburn). There is not the slightest hint of success in Nolte's past, present, or future, except for the possibility of his current relationship with his new waitress girlfriend played by Sissy Spacek. Watching Nolte's life unfold layer by layer, it's no surprise to viewers when Spacek bails on Nolte as well. Director Paul Schrader wrote the script based on the novel by Russell Banks, and as in every good Schrader film, the acting and the dialog are outstanding. There is never a false note or Hollywood moment. Willem Dafoe, who previously starred in Schrader's earlier best effort Light Sleeper, plays Nolte's younger brother Rolfe who distanced himself emotionally and physically from this quagmire of a family years ago. So much so that Dafoe's ill-advised opinion regarding the hunting accident serves as the catalyst leading to a sequence of events, culminating in Nolte's Pyrrhic victory at the end. It's clear Dafoe's character did not know just how deep or how long Nolte's abuse was festering inside when Dafoe says at least I was never afflicted by that man's (Coburn) violence. Nolte's character replies with that's what you think with a laugh and a tone of voice that makes it clear Wade Whitehouse has never been so sure of anything else ever before.Schrader sets the film in New Hampshire (although it was filmed in Quebec) during a snowy winter and features several shots of bleak landscapes and dimly lit night scenes, the perfect complements to a script depicting one man's small world of despair and desolation closing in and trapping him like an unexpected winter storm. The script's dialog is balanced with fantastic scenes during which the characters reveal much by doing only a little at times. The flashback scenes showing Coburn interacting with his son(s) are like home movies in the Bizarro world; Nolte recalling a family life and memories not worth the effort but always there nevertheless. Sissy Spacek, as Nolte's waitress girlfriend, has a scene at Coburn's house with Nolte present, and she rolls up and tightens her hands in her face, realizing immediately what Nolte took a lifetime to do, if even then. Nolte's toothache throughout the film and how he ultimately chooses to deal with it serves as a metaphor for Schrader's exposure of Nolte's festering rage and his inability to appropriately express anger. He turns to violence, just as his father (Coburn) did, to assert himself, combat his feelings of inadequacy, and to solve his problems. Abuse and violence begets abuse and violence. The film does not necessarily lead to any great redemption, resolution, or revelation. Instead, it builds quietly and slowly telling a story that many viewers are probably familiar with themselves, whether they share the similarity of alcoholic loved ones, a lack of success in their work or personal lives, or just shattered lives. It tells a story of how a man regresses from using his wits to his primitive instincts in order to survive emotionally. It's an interpersonal tragedy, and viewers with unflinching sunny dispositions may not identify with it at all. Viewers have complained about the film being too depressing, pointless, and a waste of their time, so liking the film a lot may be a matter of taste and tolerance, or it may just be that some viewers are unable to accept films without a happy or satisfying ending before the fadeout. ***1/2 of 4 stars. "}{"Title":"What did you expect?","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A walk in the park, a fine romance, a Indy Jones and the Last Crusade. Come on, a combination of Russell Banks and Paul Shrader, the author who explores a school bus accident and the writer/director from Taxi Driver, or The Comfort of Strangers. Did you really expect a happy ending? The film is a dark side vision of Richard Russo's Nobody's Fool, which Paul Newman and Robert Benton turned into a tale of redemption on screen in that same part of the world. No redemption here. As Wade's brother's final voice-over lets you know that Wade is still out there, reliving his father's life, you are relieved to be permitted to leave this claustrophobic world.Painful scene after painful scene are piled on each other, none more so than the painful rejection of Wade by his little girl. Children go through periods where their parents are embarrassments to them, but in this case, it is more of a fear than a shame of Wade that makes her want to be in her mother's arms.This is a great film of uncompromising realism. It is a modern Jude The Obscure, but at least you were allowed to see Jude when he had hope and some happiness, and at the end he simply wore himself out. At the end of Affliction, all that you know is that Wade is out there in the world, his angers banked.The film works because of Nolte's performance. Coburn has an easier job, but he carries it off. The sub-plots mean little, but show us Wade/Nolte in a field of action, and demonstrate that it is not only his personal life that is a mess.Odd that Banks' The Sweet Hereafter locale was moved from upstate New York to British Columbia, and this film of bare rock, flinty New Hampshire was made in Canada also. "},{"Title":"Bleak, shocking, and brutal portrayals of men behaving badly.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A portrait of a violent destructive father, almost giant-like, whose behavior is threatening and whose words crash against and down upon his sons, dashing them to smithereens, mentally and physically. The father has successfully destroyed his sons, in a long process which began when they were young boys, who stood and watched their father in a hot temper strike blows upon their mother. The sons are unable to touch him, to feel any emotions towards him, but fear and loathing. The father instills fear in the viewer of the film. He is scary. There is nothing to redeem this father. The son who escapes tells this story as the narrator. The scalding and searing hatred and loathing that each holds to some degree for the other is viewed against stark black and white photographs of a New England winter. Seething unrelieving pain is the film's central character. The father and son anesthetize pain in alcoholism, which the narrator-son manages to just escape. Torture, brutal and mental, is shared in this sad family and memories of it loom large and don't go away. The mother's world is silent, and viewing this film, the viewer is just rendered silent there are no words to describe the lives of the father and his two sons. Wasted, brutalized, and lost are not enough. How many families are there living as the Whitehouses do in our world? Calculating this pain and sadness is the film's bottom line.  Metaphors for these realities bounce about and jar the viewer the son's rotten tooth, the pleasure the father expresses in giving pain to his two sons, the vocabulary of brutality that destroys the human spirit.  "},{"Title":"Only for Purists","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stay away from this one unless you are entertained by psychological character studies and loads of psychically dark atmosphere. I am, so I loved it.It will remind you of the Paul Newman/Bruce Willis film Nobody's Fool. This is a variation on that theme, which is about a loser guy stuck in his ice cold hometown with nothing but bitter memories of his failure and an alcoholic father.But in the Newman film, the guy had come to terms with who he was. He was taking it in stride. In this one, the dad is still alive, so the memories are more vivid, and they're driving the guy crazy.I love the dynamics of a small town, and this one portrays them well. Everyone is like family, for better or worse. He goes into a bar and young guys are telling some story about his childhood. What are the odds? In a small town, they are high.It also follows the other movie in the trend of having one main guy who generates all the business for the town. It's usually a builder and someone who owns a lot of land and businesses. In this one, it's a French Canadian guy. It's not clear if he came down years ago from Quebec (which is where this one was filmed by the way). The setting is central New Hampshire, about a half hour north of Concord, the capitol.Besides the dark, unforgiving landscape and weather, what really makes the film, is Nick Nolte's convincing conveyance of desperation. We get the sense early on, that we have walked in on his downward spiral.Everyone thinks he's a loser, including his ex wife, his daughter, his employer,his dad, and his friends, but he has a soul mate to turn to in the darkest hours of the night. It's his little brother in Boston. These phone calls are his refuge, because only his brother can relate to what he's been through. He was there.One flaw is that we never hear what this guy has been doing since high school, yet he's in his 40's. He mentions having been in the service, but that's it. In this movie he is a lackey for the guy who runs the town. How long could he have been doing that? I want to know if he ever had a long term job or profession, and also what his drunken old dad used to do for a living. That would round out the character development.Dysfunctional families and guys who dig huge holes for themselves usually do not resolve things happily. You find yourself asking why this guy doesn't just move to a bigger town and get a normal job and start fresh. But then you realize that his troubles will follow him wherever he goes, because they are in his head.I could take or leave the narration. Willem Dafoe has an intriguing voice, which is I'm sure part of why he was chosen for the brother/narrator role.I suppose it would be better without it, because it makes it seem like you are watching an episode of The Waltons,albeit a desperately dysfunctional version.James Coburn was fine. His role was repetitive,but he did it adequately. I don't think it was a huge challenge to play a drunk. Sissy Spacek was also not called upon to stretch too far. I don't know why a native to New Hampshire would have a Texas accent, but I guess it is supposed to double for a small town, rural accent nationwide. "},{"Title":"refund, please","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  From the first minutes of this film I found myself more aware of the script's shortcomings than the action.  I kept thinking, These poor actors are trying their best, but I just don't see why the characters are saying that.  But I soon discovered that I would never understand why any of the characters do anything in _Affliction_.  Why is Margie so smitten with a loser like Wade?  Why are Jill's parents so dang old when Wade mentions he got married when he was just a kid?  Why does Rolfe suggest a conspiracy theory regarding the shooting accident and then later describe the plot as existing only in his brother's imagination, as if he had nothing to do with it?  Why do the flashbacks suggest bad camcorder more than forty year old memory?  And is it just me, or does Wade's boss have a weird accent?  In this film Schrader has created a mess of underdeveloped plot lines which he can only salvage by tacking on a voiceover at the end to finish up the story and try in vain to explain to us why we should care.  The alcoholic father is a one-dimensional monster (despite Coburn's noble attempts, I found myself praying that someone would kill him early into the movie), and the protagonist is so multidimensional that he is impossible to grasp.  Mostly, I just didn't care what happened to any of these people.  After shelling out nine bucks at the box office, I couldn't bear to leave, but I'll confess I did whip out a magazine and try to read, but it was just too dark (a good description of the film overall).  The last time I was so bored by so much gratuitous familial dysfunction was when I saw _The Sweet Hereafter_, also based on a Russell Banks novel.  I think Mr. Banks and Mr. Schrader each need to cough up $4.50, and maybe I'll forgive the waste of my time.PS Yes, Nolte gave a great performance, but alas there is no Oscar for Best Actor in a Bad, Bad Movie. "},{"Title":"A sensitive, gritty portrait of one man trying to hang on.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nick Nolte presents a sympathetic portrait of a man trying to hold on to his daughter and job. His thwarted efforts bring on flashbacks that reveal a past which holds him in sway in more powerful ways than he realizes.  The last fourth part of the movie is shocking for the swift revelation of character and consummation of latent forces from within. Sissy Spacek, in another brilliant performance, is the adoring girlfriend. James Coburn as the father is a convincing tyrant. Wonderful script and direction by Paul Schrader. "},{"Title":"A good character study on inner afflictions","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Affliction. Defined as a state of pain, distress, and misery. One word and yet it means a lot. It also makes a catchy movie title, enough for me to check it out. The film focuses on two different unrelated stories about murder conspiracy and family abuse, seen through the eyes of a small town cop named Wade Whitehorse (Nick Nolte). While the film favors more of the later story than the former, it makes a mildly interesting character study of the movie's protagonist Wade. He is a very imperfect being. He drinks, he smokes, he is estranged from his ex-wife and distant daughter, all the while plagued by harsh memories of his alcoholic father (James Coburn). As the stories progress, they converge and overwhelm Wade as he desperately fights against both and makes some decisions that could harm his life as well as his loving girlfriend (Sissy Spacek). In the end, it comes down to whether his past afflictions from his dad will turn him into a wicked individual. The apple does not fall far from the tree they say.No doubt director and writer Paul Schrader is heavily inspired by old film noir. The movie itself feels like such a genre-a character trapped within himself and from the world, unable to escape, aided with a melancholy score and obtuse camera angles that make the world seem like an inescapable void. The story itself is good noir, but it unfortunately drags. Some scenes go on longer than necessary and when things turn even more interesting, the movie abruptly ends. However, it makes up for with a great cast, particularly with Dafoe as the younger brother and James Coburn as the father. Coburn won an academy award for his performance, and it is not surprising. It is a very good role. He has a very strong dominating presence on screen that dwarfs Nolte, as it would with a cantankerous father with his sensitive son. Nolte is decent; his Neanderthal movements, gruff grumblings, and occasional tirades work well for him in this movie. Though I do think his Oscar nomination was a bit of an overkill. At times, it seemed that he was just being himself whereas Coburn immersed himself with his character. Dafoe on the other hand is very subtle and does a fine job.Affliction overall is a good movie. Don't expect yourself to feel good after watching it. It may hit home for people who have grown up in an abusive home. "},{"Title":"Unsentimental and heartfelt indie...","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" American screenwriter and director Paul Schrader's eleventh feature film which he wrote, is an adaptation of a somewhat autobiographical novel from 1989 by American writer Russell Banks. It premiered at the 54th Venice Film Festival in 1997, was shot on location in Quebec, Canada and is an American production which was produced by American producer Linda Reisman. It tells the story about a middle-aged policeman named Wade Whitehouse who lives in his father's house with his girlfriend Margie Frogg in a rural town. Wade is in a dispute with his former wife Lillian Whitehouse Horner about the custody of their daughter Jill, but when a fatal and questionable hunting accident occurs he becomes absorbed with the case.Finely and engagingly directed by American filmmaker Paul Schrader, this finely tuned fictional tale which is narrated by one of the main characters and from multiple viewpoints, draws a literally afflicting and instantly involving portrayal of a domineering and abusive father's relationship with his two contrary sons who has differing views on their upbringing and a crime which one son embraces as it temporarily takes his mind away from his horrible childhood memories. While notable for it's naturalistic milieu depictions and sterling cinematography by Canadian cinematographer and director Paul Sarrosy, this character-driven and narrative-driven story about family relations and a man's strive to break free from his father's shadow depicts some pervasive studies of character and contains a great score by Canadian composer Michael Brook.This conversational, throughout dramatic and literary psychological drama which is set in the state of New Hampshire during a deer hunting season, is impelled and reinforced by it's cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, poignant flashback scenes, conflicted characters, emotional substance, distinct acting performances by American actors Nick Nolte and James Coburn (1928-2002) and the fine acting performances by American actresses Sissy Spacek, Mary Beth Hurt and American actor Willem Dafoe. An unsentimental and heartfelt indie from the late 1990s which gained, among numerous other awards, the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor James Coburn at the 71st Academy Awards in 1999. "},{"Title":"Depressing, but, Moving...","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From the novel by Russell Banks, Paul Schrader's 'Affliction' is a depressing film, that leaves you with a hangover. Schrader's screenplay is so interesting and well-nuanced that your gripped throughout. The biggest plus point of the film, is, that it doesn't try to be REAL, because it pretty much is.'Affliction' is the story of Wade Whitehouse, played amazingly by Nolte, a depressed/frustrated and deranged man who hasn't recovered from the child-abuse he suffered from his father, played by the late James Coborn. As Wade is a small-town policeman in New Hampshire, he begins to investigate of a recently-deceased. 'Affliction' is a sad story of a sad man, who slowly starts aping his evil father as life comes to him. Which becomes his biggest defeat. But, it's a memorable character nonetheless.Paul Schrader's direction is brilliant as well. It's a tough subject to execute, understand and believe in. Schrader is at the top of his creativity in here. Performance-Wise Nick Nolte as Wade, is amazing. The veteran sinks his teeth into the character and delivers his careers finest performance. The Late James Coburn is astounding. He plays the evil-part superbly and it doesn't come as a surprise that he was awarded an Oscar for his work over-here. Willem Dafoe is wonderful in a brief, but substantial role. Sissy Spacek is good. Jim True passable.On the whole, 'Affliction' is a must watch. It does depress you, but that is it's sheer power. Strongly Reccmended, with Two Enthusiastic Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"A low-key, character driven film about a life in turmoil","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having written the screenplays for Taxi Driver (1976) and Raging Bull (1980), director Paul Schrader is on familiar territory with this blistering adaptation of Russell Banks' cult novel, Affliction (1997). Here, Nick Nolte plays a local lawman and jobbing handyman Wade Whitehouse, a man whose entire life seems to be crumbling all around him. His marriage has ended, his daughter hates him, the town considers him a joke, and added to that he spends the entire film suffering from a severe case of toothache. Like many of Schrader's iconic anti-heroes, Wade is a man trying desperately to do the best he possibly can, but is unable to shake free from the grip of his abusive, hard drinking father Glenn; an almost personification of benign evil here, swaggering around in front of his children and casually beating his wife with a gleeful abandon. However, as the film progresses, Wade himself slips further into darker territories, revealing himself to be closer to his father than he initially expected as the film draws to an exasperating close.Much like his scripts for Taxi Driver and Raging Bull, as well as his best film as director with the haunting and surreal Mishima; A Life in Four Chapters (1986), we know that the film is going to reach an eventual violent and downbeat final, as Wade continues to try and find his own kind of redemption amidst a series of unfortunate events. However, the film is so much more than just a meditation on male aggression, but a microcosm of everything from failure and defeat, as well as issues such as domestic violence and the impact that it has on the children of these families, with both of the central characters here affected by their father who casts a terrifying shadow over both their lives, and the film.If there is a fault with the picture however, then it's the ending. Right up until then we're drawn into these character's lives through the great all round performances from Nolte, Coburn, Spacek, Dafoe, et al, and from the low-key direction of Schrader. But the final act seams so rushed that I really needed to take a second to think about how it affected the film as a whole. A minor criticism admittedly, especially given that the rest of the film is definitely worth experiencing. "},{"Title":"Haunting and disturbing","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" HIGHS--What a basket full of acting desserts. Nick Nolte, James Coburn and Sissy Spacek in a cold and bleak New Hampshire landscape, all moved and disturbed in their own destinies. A well-deserved Oscar for Coburn. To die for writing. You feel the pain and humanity of each character. Schrader's direction is on the mark.LOWS--Without spoiling the end, would liked to have seen a fuller resolution to things. I guess I just need more closure after having invested so much empathy in these characters. After all this film is solely about character development.PARTING IMPRESSION--If you're in the mood to be depressed (and I think we all are once in a while), this is the ticket. A fabulous drawn out scream against how misaligned life can go and the things we might do in our attempts to redirect it. Possibly Nick Nolte's very best performance. Seven out of ten. "}{"Title":"Life can be our worst affliction.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Grim, bleak and desperately depressing account of the deleterious effects family dysfunctionality can have in adulthood. Nick Nolte plays Wade Whitehouse, the product of an abusive father(played beautifully by James Coburn)whose transition into manhood has been at the expense of love, security and emotional stability. Wade is a failed husband, father, son, brother, lover, traffic policeman and, ultimately, a failed man. He careers from one bad situation to another; one bad decision to another. Wade knows his life is falling down around him but he's powerless to reverse the slide. Eventually, Wade's self-destructive impulses overcome parallel notions that he can pull himself together and make a life for himself. Poor deluded sod! The acting of Nick Nolte is first class in a film that is more a painful experience than a piece of entertainment. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Good but flawed","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's so annoying to watch a movie that could be improved so much with only a few changes. First of all, the ending was completely ruined by an unnecessary and expositional voice over by Willam Dafoe. His narration throughout is completely useless and simply breaks up the story. Next is the murder mystery that is badly done. It should have been expanded or completely eliminated. Also, lots of rich characters could have been expanded on. On the other hand, the performances are all incredible. The script is good at showing the effects of abuse but the flaws mask it. Worth seeing but it will annoy you that it came so close to being incredible. "},{"Title":"Devastatingly brilliant","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One quarter captivating mystery thriller, three quarters intense and relentless psychological drama, Affliction is unquestionably one of Paul Schrader's finest achievements both as a writer and as a director, and an absolutely devastating and engaging film.The film revolves around the character Wade Whitehouse, played brilliantly by Nick Nolte in what amounts to a masterclass in acting and a career high for Nolte, a troubled small town policeman who is investigating a hunting death while his childhood comes back to haunt him through a series of events that cause him to collapse mentally. The characterization in Schrader's screenplay (and in Banks' novel, I assume) is absolutely astonishing. One rarely sees characters with such detailed psychological profiles in movies as short as Affliction is. James Coburn's Oscar-winning turn as Wade's father, Glen, is also very memorable, and his part is certainly very well-written. The rest of the characters play more minor roles in the film both in thematic terms and in terms of screen time, but Schrader doesn't push them to the side and focus only on the main character. No, Sissy Spacek's character here is very detailed and important, and although her role is relatively small child actress Brigid Tierney is quite excellent as Wade's daughter.The original score by Michael Brook is haunting and memorable and helps keep the film's intensity and atmosphere going, as does Paul Sarossy's cinematography which is suitable to say the least given the harsh setting and subject matter. Paul Schrader absolutely nails the direction on this film. Everything just feels right, the pacing is fantastic, and I'm certain he had something to do with the stunning performances here. The locations are used to optimal effect, and feel just as harsh from the safety of your seat as they would in reality.Affliction may not be an easy film to watch repeatedly, as it is relentlessly intense, but it is also a highly involving and sophisticated dramatic thriller, something that is certainly becoming a rare event in American cinema. Ultimately, 'enjoyable' might not be the best word to describe Affliction, but it is certainly impressive.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Character Study Extraordinaire","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Either it's me or because Hollywood is so damn reluctant to make them, but the character study is perhaps my favorite film genre. This is one of the best I've seen, and coming off McKellen's performance in Gods and Monsters (against which Nolte will compete in the tightest Best Actor Oscar race in years), that's not an understatement.  I don't remember if I've ever seen Nolte disappear into a role (as Hanks can as easily as breathing), but his Wade Whitehouse is one for the ages.Coburn is exceptional as well, and Spacek provides perfect support, but none of this would have come off as powerfully and as believably were it not for Paul Schrader, who's one of the best screenwriters/directors in the business, yet he still can't get people to remember that he's done other things besides write Taxi Driver. Schrader's use here of handheld 8mm and black-and-white flashback are prime examples of his imaginative style (check out his tri-styled Mishima when you have a chance), and it's a shame that Schrader's not even up for one of the Oscars that either Nolte or Coburn may end up with that night.  Not for the psychologically (or dentally!) squeamish, but deeply rewarding on many levels, especially if you've survived life in a dysfunctional family. It's all true, folks. (BTW, those of you're upset that the murder plot goes nowhere or were bored in general, you're COMPLETELY missing the point of the film. Go see Message in a Bottle, or Analyze This, instead spoon-fed entertainment for the masses.) "},{"Title":"Powerful performance by Nolte","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After the first time I had seen this film in the theater I told everyone that this is Nick Nolte's best performance and he will never give a better one. I stick to those words! Paul Schrader has always been a good director of unflinching bravery. He tackles the toughest subject matters head on! Here we have a story about Wade Whitehouse (Nolte) who is the sheriff of a very small New Hampshire town and gets no respect from anyone in his life. He's divorced and gets to see his daughter part of the time. He's also a hard drinker and smokes pot on the job. But he's also the victim of a very brutal childhood at the hands of his monster of a father Glen (James Coburn). Wades mother is found dead in her bed and Glen cannot acknowledge it. Wades brother Rolfe (Willem Dafoe) comes for the funeral and Rolfe also acts as the films narrator as he lets the viewer in on little details about they're upbringing. Wade has a girlfriend named Margie (Sissy Spacek) and she seems to genuinely like Wade but as the film continues we see her growing tiresome of the situations with him. What is fascinating about the film is watching Wade try not to become his father. Nolte is a big guy and is usually the biggest thing on screen but Coburn is enormous. With about 40 extra pounds of padding, Coburn dwarfs Nolte. We can understand why he is afraid of his father. One of the things that stand out in this film as I watched it is the location where it was shot. The cold and snowy New Hampshire setting is the perfect bleak landscape for a story with bleak characters. There is a subplot about an accidental shooting on a hunting trip that Wade investigates and ends up being about real estate and when Wade uncovers this it erupts a false confidence in himself and he thinks that when he breaks the story people will finally respect him. I didn't care to much about this part of the film because the main point of the film is Nolte and Coburn and this is what the story is really about. Also, Wade has a nagging toothache and it represents his past that will not go away and is slowly driving him crazy. *****SPOILER ALERT***** The end of this film is haunting and powerful as we see Wade become his father Glen. We know its going to happen and I think Wade knows it also but seems to be powerless to stop it. Margie finally has had enough and leaves Wade and when he tries to talk to her his daughter thinks he's attacking her and she flails at him. When his daughter has finally turned her back on him he reacts with violence, like his father would have. Wade gets rid of his father the same way he got rid of his tooth, with a blunt instrument. Coburn is so menacing and cruel that its a wonder that Wade didn't react this way earlier. Nolte is just riveting and his beaten gruff exterior is perfect. The scene where he pulls out his own tooth with a pliers is haunting. Its a tough film to watch but the performances and the no holds barred script make this a film that just can't be forgotten. Nolte didn't win an Oscar for this role but he should have. He's never been better and never will be again. Very powerful film.  "},{"Title":"A Child Cast as a Man","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts with Wade Whitehouse bringing his daughter to a small town Halloween party.  The distance between the two is apparent and about to get worse.  They arrive, daughter dressed as a tiger, Wade dressed as a cop.  He is a child dressed as a man.  The daughter is out of place and unhappy, making this known to Wade.  Facing a challenge that is beyond him, he steps outside where he is pulled into the life of some younger people, driving around town, getting stoned and being generally small-town. Why does Wade shy away from being a man?  Because his definition of a man is his father, an abusive and alcoholic ogre.  Wade has found peace in being a parody of an adult.  He can hang with kids just shy of high school because he has not permitted himself to grow any older than just short of manhood.  He is pathetic, but he is also very amiable.  He could live his whole life this way.  That is, he could if he hadn't already committed to fatherhood and if the new love of his life didn't expect a bit more.His new love, Marge, is a small town woman through and through.  Perhaps she has been passed around a bit, but she has a good heart.  She seems barely content with drifting through life, staying just short of ambitious.  Perhaps she'll marry her bear-cub boyfriend Wade and have a family while she can.  Perhaps not.  She is smarter than Wade, but he is fun and harmless, it seems.Wade's brother, Rolfe, is the kid who managed to avoid the blows of his father.  He is the smart one.  Smart enough to stay far enough away from his father, smart enough to distract himself from the ruins of abuse with intellectual pursuits.  His intelligence bought him a way out.  He is committed only to himself.Exposing his own aggression, Rolfe plants seeds in Wade that will soon be Wade's undoing.  To Rolfe, it's all a bit fun.  When he's back in his home-town, he returns to a role.  He and Wade are kids up to no good.  They are sleuths, unlocking the truth of the grown-ups.  There is no risk to Rolfe since his brother has and will be the shield.Wade's role is stressed in a series of events.  He has been powerless in keeping his family together.  His ex-wife outgrew him and has moved on.  He is powerless against even the will of his daughter.  He has not seemed to even notice that she is not 6 anymore, and that she has begun to recognize his shortcomings.  All this, he must change.  He had been handed the role of a cop, not for merit, but for obedience to the town's owners.  This must change.  His father has become incompetent and might have even let his mother die from exposure.  Wade becomes the head of the household and thus launches his new interest in a commanding role.  But a commanding role requires a man.  For Wade, a man is an monster.  Needless to say, it doesn't go well for Wade and all who surround him. "},{"Title":"An American Classic","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Affliction, based on the disturbing novel by Russell Banks, is a monumental little film. It's one of those independents that got overlooked by the public but not by the critics and certainly not by fans of the incomparable Nick Nolte. I won't give a lot of details or a plot summary since it's been done several times already.Affliction is the story of how alcoholism is a disease some family members catch but all are affected by negatively in some way. James Coburn, family patriarch, has the disease. Nick Nolte, eldest son, catches it. And both Willem Dafoe, youngest son, and Mary Beth Hurt, wife, are affected by it. The wife is beaten into submission years before while the youngest son in scared to death of his father and as he says in the film, I was a careful child and I became a careful adult (explaining how one episode caused him to be very careful around his father and thus, it is now his role in life).But for this film, we are focusing on Nolte and Coburn who are so intense in this movie it is beyond belief that there was not a two-fer Oscar win for their performances. This is a father-son screen story for the ages worthy of a Greek tragedy. And as we join them at their current ages and the current stage of the battle, they are a frightening dynamic to watch.See the story in the Trivia section of the preparation conversation between the director Paul Schrader and Coburn. It is a true shame that we were not given the opportunity to see Coburn truly act more often. I always liked Coburn since he seemed likable but his career was a string of mainstream mediocrity in which he was punching a clock. This role shows us the depth of this man's talent that sadly Hollywood and he wasted with choices more like the embarrassing Snow Dogs than true acting vehicles such as this.For Nolte it was yet again another shaft by the Academy. People seem to be happy to equate Nolte's talent with the infamous mug shot that is so happily reprinted from a substance-related arrest. Why I do not know. I cannot think of another actor that I would lay down my money to see and know that am guaranteed my money's worth from his efforts at least. As someone mentioned in the comments, Tom Hanks (who also lost out on an Oscar in the same category losing to the lead role from the most insulting and disrespectful film made in many years, Life is Beautiful), would never have considered taking Nolte's role. Never. He is not going to take a role which contrasts with his good guy image and so we are treated to an endless stream of average, nice guy wins roles from him while Nolte, who takes more chances than any other actor in Hollywood, is continually ignored. This part is as skillfully crafted as his role in Mother Night. You can see more of his talent in Nightwatch and more recently in Off The Black, another small film he makes a big impact in. All ignored by the Academy.Nolte's skill makes his paranoid reactions to situations believable where other actors would make it comical or simply awkward. His anger and angst as well as his broken personality bursts out of the screen. Throughout this film his character PLEADS for help in every way he can without sacrificing that tough, leathery exterior that real men are supposed to have in this country (at least of that generation, that last generation it was expected of) and that his father holds up as the highest achievement any man can attain. But he is a broken man, broken deep inside where it is nearly impossible to repair and must start with a soul being opened up completely like a gutted, helpless fish which is not something men growing up in a situation like this can ever do, during or after (though honestly there is never an after ... it is always during ... and it is for the rest of your life). Nolte makes it all so real and genuine many comments on this board say he must not be acting and must really be like this. I don't know Mr. Nolte personally and I am certain others saying this do not. It's just one more way of snubbing his immense and honest talent in favor of what the news media and the hammerheads on the internet would rather have you believe is the Nolte that matters, that is, that infamous mug shot.And what different thing does Nolte bring to every role? What makes the actor so unique? One thing I always notice is the walk, the gate of each character. In Affliction it is a rhythmic, self-assured stride as he is protecting what little of his insides there is left to try to save. But as the anger and the madness take him, the stride is hard, punching, and off-center.In Off The Black, his stride is also off-center, physically with his right foot pointing out and his left foot pointing in as he angles through his uncertain life, uncertain of himself and his place in the world.I'm running out of room as I always do but Sissy Spacek and Willem Dafoe make big things of their smaller parts and flesh out the fun house mirror-feeling of the central figure's life that keeps us all off-balance to the sudden and brutal end.Schrader directs this group to a perfect film in my opinion. It builds to a deafening, disturbing crescendo in steady, well-timed measures. He was also overlooked for the Oscar for what is his best film since American Gigolo.See this film. It cuts to the bone and then scrapes across the bone in a long slow draw. "},{"Title":"Blistering, unflinching.","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Affliction, written and directed by the great Paul Schrader from a novel by Russell Banks, starts off like a story you've heard a thousand times. Wade Whitehouse (Nick Nolte) is the sheriff of a small New Hampshire town. He's also a heavy drinker with an ex-wife who can't stand him and a daughter who spends her time pouting and asking to go home to her mother. One day a hunting accident leaves a wealthy businessman dead, and Wade sees this as his opportunity to prove his worth to his family, his town and himself. Under the hands of Schrader though, someone who has never taken the safe road as a filmmaker, this small town neo-noir thriller turns into a wrenching study of a deeply disturbed individual.What began as an intriguing mystery instead takes a descent into madness, unraveling this man and exposing the brutality that has long been dormant, waiting underneath the surface for the right circumstances to come about. Whitehouse is subtly picked apart by small disturbances, like a gnawing tooth ache and his ungrateful, unloving daughter, that Schrader intelligently weaves into this building sense of aggression and frustration. By the time his daughter refuses to get a Big Mac because her mother says it's bad for her, the audience is down to their last nerve the same way that Whitehouse is. It's an incredible display of bringing the viewer into the mind of it's main character, which builds to a final act that is shattering and terrifying.Schrader's script is immaculately staged here, the kind of intelligent writing where there isn't a single wasted moment. The first hour of the film is almost all character development, which services everything perfectly. It's all building the sense that things are coming to a dramatic climax, where every path, no matter how large or small, ultimately leads to one destination. As these minor distractions plague on him, Whitehouse continues his investigation into the death, but what takes a more center stage as the film progresses is his chaotic relationship with his father, portrayed by James Coburn. We start to see that it's this father/son dynamic that has made Whitehouse such a disturbed individual, his father being a terrifying bastard of a man who abused him as a child while he drank himself into short-tempered rages.In this dynamic, Affliction starts to become a study of what kind of impact that relationship can have on the development of a person, that can grow inside of him and change the course of who he is to become. Is Whitehouse a bad man at heart, or was he made that way by his father? He seems good when we first meet him, trying his hardest despite his character faults, but as he goes down this descent the audience is left to wonder if the father makes the man, if a different patriarch could have led him down a path much less dark. Coburn is a terrifying force here, a man who makes you uncomfortable from the moment he steps into the room. Even when he's not in a rage, you can feel it in the air, the fear that it can come at any moment. It's a palpable sensation that anyone with a short-tempered father can immediately relate to. Casting this man was a hard task for Schrader, as he had to find someone who could make the intimidating Nick Nolte quake in his boots, and there couldn't have been anyone more suited for the job than Coburn.Nolte's performance likewise is a work of art and takes us so thoroughly down this road to darkness that Whitehouse experiences. He makes you sympathize with him, perhaps even empathize as I most certainly did, which makes his explosion, his unbridled descent all the more wrenching. There's a scene where he lets loose, completely explodes on a tirade about how this town needs him, that is one of the most shockingly chilling moments I've experienced in some time. It leaves you unable to move, a towering display of machismo in the face of potential emasculation. This is what the film boils down to in a lot of ways, the things that make a man and what being a man really means.Interestingly, the story is told from the outside perspective of Whitehouse's brother Rolfe, played by the always great Willem Dafoe. Instead of having the story told through the eyes of Wade, instead we see it all as Rolfe looking back, filled with an eerie sense of remorse that he wasn't able to stop what was coming. Dafoe only appears physically on screen for about ten or fifteen minutes, but you can feel his presence looming over the picture the whole way through, as we occasionally hear him through voice-over. His intriguing voice captures the audience, giving Affliction a troubling, almost poetic neo-noir feel that broods while the characters explode. It's the perfect contrast to the towering work delivered by Schrader and his actors on screen. This is a shattering picture. "},{"Title":"Well Acted, But Unrelentingly Grim","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nick Nolte tears up the screen as a bundle of raw nerves in this harrowing domestic drama. I can appreciate the skill that went into the film, and it features some terrific performances, but I can't say I necessarily enjoyed it, as it's intense and unsettling.Nolte plays a man struggling with his own incompetence as a father even as he watches his own horrid father -- once a towering and frightening figure of discipline and stern rule -- teeter into old age and decrepitude. James Coburn plays the father, and the man he creates on screen is monstrous.The film is unrelentingly grim and at times downright uncomfortable. It brought Coburn his lone Oscar nomination and win and won Nolte the second of his two Best Actor nominations.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"One man's destiny","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nick Nolte shines in Affliction with his stark portrayal of a man, Wade Whitehouse, who desperately attempts to emotionally distance himself from his abusive, alcoholic father (Coburn) in this gripping and not to cheery indie gem.Wade is a cop in a small New Hampshire town relegated to crossing guard duty and odd jobs trying to make ends meet. He is going nowhere in life. When a man dies in a hunting accident, Wade suspects foul play and opens an investigation. His quest to find answers detours away from detective work and closes in on his own truth about who he is and what he is about to become.This movie is less about a plot and more about real life and how people seek to find their own place in the world.Nolte's Wade is caught between wanting his fathers approval and hating him for not understanding who he really is.Coburn fills the screen as Wade's mean spirited father and Sissy Spacek does a fine job as Wade's girlfriend who struggles to understand why he is coming unhinged.Willem Dafoe plays Wade's brother and the one in the family who gets out of Dodge. He also provides voice over to tie up the loose ends.Highly recommended for superb acting and great character study. "}{"Title":"Outstanding Acting","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nick Nolte, Sissy Spacek, & James Coburn turn in some of the finest acting of their careers. James Coburn even won an Oscar for his performance in this film. Although already talented these three actors prove their worth even more solidly. Director Paul Schrader has done an excellent job as well. Now heres where I have a problem. What was Russel Banks thinking when he wrote this ending. It seems like there should be some revenge here or something. Not bad but I feel I may never understand the ending of this film. Otherwise I give the film high marks for outstanding performances.The story is about a small town cop that seems to have lost everything, but he has even more to lose. He tries one last chance at becoming an important figure in his town when he investigates a mysterious death.   "},{"Title":"Deep rooted anger causes a man to unravel.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nick Nolte plays a small town peace officer in a snow bound New England town. A town so small, corruption is no secret. Underhanded people are allowed to rule. Nolte's character starts to mentally breakdown when trying to get custody of his estranged daughter and being forced to not investigate too deeply a hunting accident. Memories of the childhood abuse inflicted by his father soon overrides his thoughts.Nolte is at his best. It is very easy to dislike James Coburn as the tyrant father. Sissy Spacek and Jim True round out the cast. A gritty and grueling story to watch. Location scenery makes you feel the exposed emotions.  "},{"Title":"Not that bad once you watch the whole thing.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  affliction- a condition of pain,suffering,or distress.When James Coburn won an Acedemy award for his role in this film I had not heard of this movie, so out of curiosity I rented it. I will admit it took me 2 efforts to watch it as the first time I fell asleep but once I sat through the whole movie, I was somewhat impressed.Nick Nolte plays Wade, a small town cop that is plagued with alot of problems, including his own alcoholism and violent temper. He also must learn to live with the demons that haunt him from abuse he sustained from his abusive, alcoholic father, played by James Coburn, who in his old age, is still a monster.Wade,played by Nick Nolte,is called to investigate a shooting accident that leaves a wealthy hunter dead. Wade soon begins to believe that this was not an accident, but a murder due to the circumstances surrounding it, so he starts to investigate it as a murder.The mayor of the city seems to like getting in the way of his job. In the meantime he is having custody problems with his ex wife. His daughter is a spoiled brat who never wants to spend time with dad, even though he goes out of his way to try and make the visits enjoyable. His girlfriend Margie, played by Sissy Spacek, is a sweet loving girlfriend who stands by her man until she too has had enough. The stress of his job and the fact that his life seems to be crumbling is too much and eventually Wade starts to crack.What I got from this film is that this is a man who is plagued by many problems, who is just trying to do the right thing. He thinks a murder has taken place and tries to solve it. He is trying to get along with his dad, even though dad is an abusive drunk. And he wants to spend time with his young daughter, who does nothing but whine that she wants to go back home to mom. I started to feel sorry for this man by the end of the film, with all the obstacles he had.Overall, I was glad I finished this film and give it a 7/10. Great performances by all.  "},{"Title":"Nolte is film's main strength","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Shrader, the writer of Taxi Driver has yet again explored the psyche of a man driven to violence by his environment. In this wintry Film Blanc (nods to the Coen Brothers), the circumstances are completely different instead of a suffocating, scummy NYC, we have an isolated, miserable town in upstate New Hampshire. The psychodrama of the main character's complex family relationships, especially his father (Coburn, in the most serious role of his career), unfolds slowly and inevitably; by the final minutes, the audience can fully grasp his ravaged soul, almost ready to lash out themselves. Nick Nolte's performance (truly worthy of a best actor Oscar) literally builds the whole project he stumbles, growls and snaps with the despair and ferocity of a wounded bear. The climax of his sufferings, however, is not fully realized, as the buildup of the film's tension is released too soon. We do not see the vengeful grandeur of the De Niro kind, and thus the picture limps down prematurely. Remarkably, as it is so rare in modern cinema, Affliction sustains the tone of a true Tragedy, offering absolutely no redemption or a single scene that is somehow uplifting.  "},{"Title":"A disturbing film","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A sad, slow and hard movie to like Affliction, the film that gave new force for James Coburn's career and earned him an Academy Award, is a difficult drama. Directed with coldness and distance by Schrader, Affliction is about a problematic sheriff who is scared of become like his old man, a violent and full-of-rage person (Coburn, in a complex part- he does a great job). After a so-called hunt accident, that ended up in the death of a powerful man, Nolte's character decides to seek for the truth as a way in which he may finally find redemption. This is a Schrader film, so don't expect happy endings, but is exactly this aspect that makes Affliction such a vigorous psychological drama.This film is closely to a masterpiece, but the slow rhythm and the lack of basic action and emotion turns this drama into a good, but not excellent, film. "},{"Title":"Definitely not a feel-good movie, but...","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...great performances, and a very believable plot.The movie starts out rather dull until James Coburn enters the setting as Wade Whitehouse's (Nick Nolte) father, an abusive drunk who seems to be degrading his son's relationships and reputation as the town cop. It has been done before, but it was done well and with bleak emotion. I'd imagine that the sore tooth removing scene was very symbolic -- the tooth resembled his misfortune, sufferage (and likely his father) and he just wanted to take it out of his life. Coburn did receive a well deserved Academy Award for his performance. If you want an sappy movie with a happy ending, forget it. If you want an interesting, effective character study with good performances, it's worth a look. "},{"Title":"Can't get it out of my mind","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are a lot of things wrong with this film that shouldn't be wrong. Such as?  Well.  The structure doesn't work; some of the major characters (Jim True and Gordon LaRiviere) are underwritten and don't come to life, and it's occasionally silly or incomprehensible (Wade Whitehouse's frozen Jesus while acting as crossing guard).But.Something about it won't leave me alone.  Something to do with the story. A lot of maybes spring to mind - the structure's wrong, something's missing, something's in the wrong place, the voiceover is preachy, it's badly paced, it's too much of a message film and the message is obvious anyway; I don't know what it is.  But it's like listening to a messy performance of a great piece of music; some of the notes are wrong, but - and even though you've never heard the piece before - you know which ones they are and what they ought to be and you go and find a better performance of the piece and listen to that.  You can see the film they could have made and it's better than the one you're watching.The problems, by the way, are down to Schrader in the writing, direction and editing (unless they're down to Russell Banks' novel, and if they are it was up to Schrader to sort them out).  Nolte, Coburn, Spacek, Defoe and Bridid Tierney as Wade's daughter are excellent.  The camerawork is fine (except for one of the worst pieces of back projection I've ever seen, which does the film no favours as it's right at the start).  The music is also worth a mention (even if much of it does sound suspiciously like an old piece by the Cure called Carnage Visors).Overall it's one of those films that irritates the hell out of you as you watch it, but you'll find yourself thinking about it for quite a while afterwards.Which is why I've just bought the book. "},{"Title":"Nolte isn't enough","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to Affliction knowing I'd receive a slow, raw character study, detailing a man's psychological and moral decline.  I knew it would be like A Simple Plan, which is by the way a better film in all respects, in lack of shock value and its concentration on how characters changed their relations between one another after an incident.  But Schrader doesn't pull it off here, no matter how good a job Nick Nolte does.  I'm watching Raging Bull right now for a class, and I realized he can't direct his own screenplays as well as Scorsese can.  Take any scenes between Cathy Moriarty and De Niro in Bull, vs. Sissy Spacek and Nick Nolte, and you'll realize there's something missing in Schrader's direction.  The cinematography, the atmosphere, the music all seems dulled somehow, losing its focus.  I mean, if Joey had been able to wax philosophical to us about Jake's decline, would the film's images have had the same power?Examples of relationships Spacey and Nolte's relationship could have been performed much more interestingly- there was no JOY there, only empty, almost forced smiles.  Just like it's no surprise for a sinless man to yell out I'm saved! it's no great tragedy or drama to watch a joyless couple decline.  It seemed like Schrader really didn't know what to do with Spacek, even more so with Jack Hewitt.  The relationship between Jack and Wade is kind of at the heart of things, their similar economic positions, their friendship going back a while.  Wade lets Jack slip by every now and then for a few favors, etc.  Schrader sacrifices this tension in the process of exploring every possible dimension of the life of Wade Whitehouse and then show it ALL declining.  This made for a rather hammering, dulling film in which we could almost predict and soon not give a damn about where Wade was headed in his paranoia and frustration.A Simple Plan gave us four characters and a palpable tension created between them over a bag of money.  How did it transform their relationships?  Why? Who suffered, who gained?  How do we arrive at the deaths at the end, what went wrong?  All these questions were central in my mind after seeing A Simple Plan.  Similarly, Affliction created a catalyst, the strange death of Twombly, but didn't take it far enough.  An IMDB criticism here was just right Rolfe's character had a SEVERE effect on how Wade interpreted the incident, but Dafoe's narration somehow allowed him to back out.The narration was excessive that first shot of Affliction with the car coming in could have resembled Heat's grand opening shot of the subway. Dafoe screwed it up with words, since film must be primarily a medium about the power of visual suggestion.  I was disgusted by how far Schrader let it go ending it on the frame of Nolte drinking and the house burning in the background would have been fine, though horrible.  The final ending was real overkill.Nolte is always interesting to watch, but you don't give a damn eventually because nobody else here really interests you.  Jack, Larriviere, Spacek, Rolfe, even his father by Coburn, who should not have gotten the Oscar over Thornton, don't create really interesting situations or tensions with Wade. Even if they are created, they're not sustained.  For me, the most interesting relationship has to be between Wade and his ex-wife's family and daughter.Yes, the daughter was way too whiny and I could see how we could dislike her character, but watching Nolte struggling to be tender and commanding with the girl was my favorite part of the film.  His not knowing how the hell to get her to trust him or even like him was all over his face, body language, tone.  The way she says, Don't WORRY, Dad.  I love you, and the look of doubt that formed on Nolte's face really captivated me.  For me the tightest, best performed scene in the movie was when the ex-wife came to pick the daughter up.  Everything gets so screwed up for Wade, when he so wants to be good.  Don't say a word....I didn't hit him, I didn't hit him was probably the most human, fragile moments in the film (thankfully without any strange, depressing music in the background.)I don't know what Schrader was trying to do here, but the film seemed to fail for everyone in the audience.  Definitely, Dafoe's closing narration rotted a lot of the effect of Wade's burning the barn.  Certainly, the parts of Affliction didn't hold together.  And even though Nolte is a dynamic actor to watch, if we can't really care about the people he interacts with, what's the point?  A film where the supporting ensemble outranks the lead actor is usually a better scenario than one where the lead has no support. That was the case here, due to the faulty structure and direction of Affliction.I'm just waiting for a Mel Brooks snow movie he could really have some fun with this genre we've conjured up...  "},{"Title":"Sins of the Fathers.","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is by any measure a superior movie, yet it's hard to form any global judgment on it because there are several ways of looking at it.The story involves a small-town New England police official, Nick Nolte, who is plagued by personal problems. He's about to engage in a custody battle with the wife who has left him. He's trying as delicately as possible to handle his new romance with Sissy Spacek. His estranged daughter doesn't really like him much. He doesn't get along with his boss, not only the head of law enforcement but a Selectman (whatever that is) who is buying up local real estate in anticipation of building a world-class ski resort. Nolte's younger sibling (Willem Dafoe) is a professor in Boston and has little contact with him. His mother dies. His father, James Coburn, is a wretched and abusive alcoholic, the kind of guy who once had an awkward moment just to see what it felt like. And on top of that, a Boston power broker is killed during a deer hunt, the killing is classified as an accident, only Nolte believes he has reasons to put quotation marks around the word accident. Worse than anything else perhaps is the toothache that fills his day with pain. (I think it's a symbol.) He winds up yanking the offensive bicuspid with a pair of pliers.All of this tsuris drives Nolte up the wall and he begins to act half crazed -- thumping his little girl away when she knocks him down, destroying half his boss's office before being fired, boozing it up, driving Spacek away, ranting on about how he's going to crack the murder mystery that has been simmering in the background, yanking open kitchen drawers aimlessly then slamming them shut. When his drunken dad hits him over the head with a bottle, he retaliates by whacking the old man across the head with the butt of a rifle, as a consequence of which the old fellow dies on the spot. It seems (it's not really clear) that he shoots and kills the suspect and then takes off for parts unknown. The end.The acting is close to being splendid. Nolte has never been better and Coburn deserved all the praise he garnered for his performance. Sissy Spacek's role is relatively small and not nearly as flashy as the others' but I think she turns in the best job. Example. In the drab farm house kitchen, Nolte is shouting and slamming things around while Spacek sits at the table. The standard reaction shot would be Spacek staring in horror at the pyroclastic Nolte, shrinking away from his wrath, her fists curled against her cheeks, protesting, perhaps screaming. But no. She doesn't even look at him. Her chin in cupped in her hand and her big blue eyes stare thoughtfully into empty space. You can practically hear the wheels clicking.It's the story of a fundamentally decent and entirely ordinary man who is undone by childhood demons, a tragedy of almost Shakespearean dimensions.That's one way of looking at it. Another way of looking at it is that it is a simple fairy tale about child and spousal abuse by redneck men, and that abused children grow into abusive adults. We are periodically pointed towards this heuristic by the super-literary and overly sanctimonious narration by Nolte's distant and unhelpful brother, the big professor at Boston University. The murder conspiracy, the narration tells us, was all a delusion. The professor ought to know because he's the one who reinforced Nolte's conviction that the conspiracy was real. And -- if one were to stand back and objectively look at the way Nolte is treated in his social world -- really, some of his anger would be perfectly understandable. Spacek leaves him not because he has abused her in any way but because she seems tired of living with his drunken, lecherous old man, and because she has second sight and anticipates what Nolte is liable to become. Like the absent brother, she doesn't really offer much in the way of understanding or help, though of course she's only human. Nolte's boss comes across as generous but unpleasant, a mean and vengeful anti-smoker. And Nolte's little girl, the one he wants custody of? What an intolerant little snot! He takes her for a drive and offers to buy her a hamburger. She reproaches him for the offer. Fast food is no good for you. Mommy says so. She wants to go home. The benumbed Nolte offers another suggestion How about the Pizza House? Abusive fathers are one thing, but who put all that power in the hands of a ten-year-old kid? Does anyone want to live in a world in which little kids set the rules? Or overprotective mothers or people offended by a whiff of smoke and use it as a justification for demeaning others and demonstrating their own moral purity? Where does all that leave Nolte? It also seems unfair to the child, to burden her with that much responsibility. If one can get past the cumulative stupidity of that oppressive morality, it's a well-executed picture. I've seen it twice and enjoyed it, but I have to shut down half my left hemisphere to do it. "},{"Title":"Mostly likable and different","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Very rarely do movies go into depth about the problems that people and families have in life due to poor socialization and poor upbringing. This movie does an excellent job of showing how a man can both function in life and be troubled in life due his past. Nolte plays a sheriff of a small town in New Hampshire (actually, filmed in Quebec, though). He is rugged and probably the strongest man in town. He is a good old boy. Yet, he has an abusive past. His father, James Cobourn, was a mean man who believed that terrorizing and torturing his family was the way a father should be. He learned that from his father. Cobourn's father is an old man now, but still a town pest. He can be likable for a few minutes, but then people discover that he is just a mean man. Nolte plays a seemingly normal man who is starting to unravel throughout the movie. He is troubled, because his wife left him, and in his mind, he feels that his daughter is being unfairly manipulated and estranged by his ex-wife. It is hard to say whether it is imagination or somewhat true. This movie is about perceptions. Because Nolte was raised in an abusive, alcoholic family environment, he can never feel safe and loved. He is paranoid and perceives people being against him, when it is not clearly the case. I liked this movie because it does take a hard look at how hard life can be when there is something wrong in your past. The part I didn't like is how awfully politically correct the movie was. You never completely understood why his daughter was so sensitive and afraid of him. He never really did anything wrong to her. Maybe, it is representative of how things have maybe changed too much. In the old days, stuff happened and was accepted. Nowadays, any sign of any trouble is immediately seen as a threatening situation. Who knows? Maybe that was part of the point of the movie. "}{"Title":"when life was - and still is - bleak","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Paul Schrader's adaptation of Russell Banks's Affliction has got to be one of the bleakest movies that I've ever seen. Most of the characters are people whom you can respect, but James Coburn's character makes you feel like your stomach just turned to water.Wade Whitehouse (Nick Nolte) is a cop in a small New England town investigating a hunting accident which he believes is a murder. He hopes that it might make him the town hero, but several conditions work against everyone. First and foremost is Wade's alcoholic, abusive father (Coburn). Pretty much anytime that we see his father, the man is still drinking and being as nasty as possible to everyone around him. Wade's brother (Willem Dafoe) is too afraid to speak his mind. Wade's hubby (Sissy Spacek) is simply getting nervous about everything around her. And the ending isn't what you might guess.The winter setting is just the opposite of how movies usually employ snow. Far from any winter wonderland, the setting backs up Wade's depressed mindset affected by his upbringing. Everything in this movie has the purpose of making you feel like there's a lead weight on every square centimeter of your body, and they succeed. I do think that it's a good movie, but just be forewarned of what kind of movie this is. Even if you sympathize with the characters, you feel like there's a knife in your lungs.Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"based on the novel...","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" by Russell Banks, this is an atmospheric film which will leave you with a distinct impression of northern New Hampshire, the cold surreal surroundings, and this telling story of a man's self-destruction.The backdrop of snow and stark whiteness, merely adds to Nick Nolte's character, Wade Whitehouse. He finds himself at odds with his life, his ex-wife (very well-done by Mary Beth Hurt) his young daughter, his boss (Holmes Osbourne) and his father (James Coburn).Sissy Spacek also portrays Wade's sometime girlfriend, a woman who loves him but can no longer watch him destroy his life. His alienation is evident even in small things, dealing with a toothache, he merely drinks salt water, and eventually yanks it out; not caring what pain will ensue; he will just have to drink more.James Coburn is excellent as Wade's father, a haunted, angry man, Coburn finds his children to be failures (The only one who survives is Willem Defoe, who escapes to Boston to be a professor). When Coburn's wife dies in her sleep, Coburn leaves the body upstairs, letting Wade take care of it; Wade notices there is no heat in the freezing house; the oil burner broke, Coburn explains, as he downs another scotch, ...why bother fixing it?.The underlying rage and simmering disappointments of these people contrast with the icy clear environment in which they live. Other than Defoe, the only character who really faces the sad reality is Mary Beth Hurt, and the young daughter, who comes off a bit petulant at times.We see three generations affected by rage, alienation, violence and alcoholism. While the ending was a bit abrupt, it clearly demonstrates the results of this rage and pain, and the horrific circumstances by which some people endure and play out their lives. 9/10. "},{"Title":"based on the novel...","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" by Russell Banks, this is an atmospheric film which will leave you with a distinct impression of northern New Hampshire, the cold surreal surroundings, and this telling story of a man's self-destruction.The backdrop of snow and stark whiteness, merely adds to Nick Nolte's character, Wade Whitehouse. He finds himself at odds with his life, his ex-wife (very well-done by Mary Beth Hurt) his young daughter, his boss (Holmes Osbourne) and his father (James Coburn).Sissy Spacek also portrays Wade's sometime girlfriend, a woman who loves him but can no longer watch him destroy his life. His alienation is evident even in small things, dealing with a toothache, he merely drinks salt water, and eventually yanks it out; not caring what pain will ensue; he will just have to drink more.James Coburn is excellent as Wade's father, a haunted, angry man, Coburn finds his children to be failures (The only one who survives is Willem Defoe, who escapes to Boston to be a professor). When Coburn's wife dies in her sleep, Coburn leaves the body upstairs, letting Wade take care of it; Wade notices there is no heat in the freezing house; the oil burner broke, Coburn explains, as he downs another scotch, ...why bother fixing it?.The underlying rage and simmering disappointments of these people contrast with the icy clear environment in which they live. Other than Defoe, the only character who really faces the sad reality is Mary Beth Hurt, and the young daughter, who comes off a bit petulant at times.We see three generations affected by rage, alienation, violence and alcoholism. While the ending was a bit abrupt, it clearly demonstrates the results of this rage and pain, and the horrific circumstances by which some people endure and play out their lives. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Awesome depiction of small town madness","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is without a doubt amongst the best and most intense depictions of an isolated small town society and the evil it can produce. James Coburn plays the father, alcoholic who beat and mistreated his family, especially his three sons. One of them was Wade Whitehouse (Nolte), now a sheriff in the same isolated mountain town. He struggles to overcome his past and his violent tendencies that he inherited from all the years of physical and mental abuse. Wade is a walking disaster and his sweetheart Margie (Spacek in another stellar role) is the only one who ignores this and believes in the goodness in him. Soon it turns out that the demons are too strong and Wade threatens to pull the ones he loves down with him.The coldness and isolation are two central themes, played out against the darkness inside Wade's mind and heart. As Wade's brother Rolfe, wonderfully played by Willem Dafoe, says it in the end, nobody should beat their children and Wade is the best proof of that. It is a strong message that rounds up a tragic ending.Affliction is a classic of the 90's and despite its dark theme, a quite enjoyable and at times even humorous film. The actors and their performances only make it an even greater reason why it should be called a classic and a pivotal contribution to the film history. A perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Is there no end to it?","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Very good performances will stir you, and steer you through the bleak tone of the movie.Nick Nolte, Sissy Spacek and James Colburn create believable characters and the script allows the characters to develop--something not all-together common in American movies.Without giving away the ending, which is no surprise if you are thinking while watching the movie, one wonders if the producers ran out of film. While every little detail is developed throughout the movie, the ending seems tacked on, without development, and complete with a voice-over sermon by Willem DaFoe.  The hasty ending lowered a 9 star rating to a 7star. "},{"Title":"A truly remarkable film...","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction, is a truly remarkable film.  From an acting standpoint it is beautiful.  Finally we see James Coburn, act.  We've seen him dozens of times before, but never before has he been so engaging.  Coburn has a powerful screen persona, and is at his best here, as an alcoholic and abusive father. Notle plays against type cast, and plays a small town cop.  Only instead of his usual tough guy image, he brings to the screen  a sense of fear.  He plays a wimp, well maybe not a wimp, but a man who has been beaten by his father and life. When Coburn and Nolte are on the screen together, it is incredible to watch.  To see two screen legends at the top of their game.  Spacek, and Dafoe are in usual form, as always outstanding.  But this movie truly belongs to Coburn and Nolte. Granted this movie is not for everyone, only for true movie lovers. People who love watching actors at their best.  This a slow movie, not slow in a bad way, a slow as in poetic, and sad.  Do not see this movie if you're looking for fluff.  This movie is very heavy and deep, but all in all one of the best films of it's decade. "},{"Title":"worth watching just for Nick Nolte's and Jame's Coburn's powerhouse performances.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  definitely a film where the masterful perfomances carry the movie over a slightly cliche plot.Nick Nolte gives the best performance of career as a middle aged man still suffering the effects of an abusive upbringing by his venomous, alcoholic father (a terrifying performance by the great James Coburn.)the film wraps this angle around a slightly cliche plotline involving a murder in his small town that shakes him and some of inhabitants up in a bad way. i felt this was the film's weak point and it could've detracted from the film if it weren't for the two powerhouse leads.everyone else in the cast, with a nod to Willam Defoe as Nick's brother, are excellent and create a genuine sense of family ties that i haven't seen done this well before. (William, Nick and James actually look related to an extent.)while the plot could've used a bit more polish, this film is worth every penny just to check out the performances.rating8 (though the acting gets a 10)    "},{"Title":"END OF FILM.......MAJOR SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great film that deals with father/son relationships, a murder mystery and alcohol abuse. Nick Nolte is spectacular in this movie. With this film he proves he has range and depth that most hollywood male leads lack. James Coburn and Willem Dafoe are also good in this well produced, written, and directed film. Throughout the whole film we are lead to believe that there was a murder conspiracy and in the end we find it was all in Nick Nolte's head. It is not until the end that the audience gets the punchline.....Nick Nolte has become exactly like the crazed abusive father he despises. That is the story for this film....the contrast between two brothers and how one became like their father and the other didn't. One brother embraces the evils of booze and hate, while the other finds a quieter, gentler meaning to life. Willem Dafoe plays the more gentle down to earth brother. Dafoe plays the character with such smoothness,and gentleness, you can't help but like him. It also contrasts the fates of the two brothers; lonliness and crazed isolation for the hateful one, and a quiet, peaceful life more or less ordinary for the other one. Perhpas, that's the moral of the film. Perhaps it's the old the wages of sin is death spiel. Then again, perhaps I'm worng. But that's what this film means to me.  "},{"Title":"Superb drama - Great acting","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction is the story of a man who spends his life trying to live up to his father's expectations of him.Nick Nolte plays Wade Whitehouse a man who is separated from his family, works at a series of meaningless jobs, including that of a part-time police officer, drinks too much and seems to be going nowhere with his life. James Coburn, who deservedly won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his role, is outstanding as Nolte's brutal and boozy father. Life is moving along until an apparent murder takes place and Nolte's mother dies. Then his life begins to unravel.Sissy Spacek is along as Nolte's love interest and Willem Dafoe plays his brother, who has escaped from his family and is a successful teacher to whom the Nolte character turns for advice. Mary Beth Hurt and Marian Seldes are very good as Nolte's estranged wife and daughter.If you're looking for a great drama with great acting and no glitzy special effects, then Affliction is for you. "},{"Title":"Amazing, brutal, bleak,  not for everybody","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction is the type of film that isn't for everybody. It is either said to be overwrought and overdone or just plain boring. That's not true. This is one of the top 5 of last year. I've seen it twice now and it moved me more the second time. It is about a town policeman (played superbly by Nick Nolte, who was robbed of the Oscar) and how he becomes involved in a murder case and that interferes with his past abuse by his father. That is just a summary and there are a lot more details. The film is well acted and Coburn and Nolte both deserved the Oscar. The film should have gotten more nominations. I think Paul Schrader is the greatest screenwriter out there, I didn't really like his directorial films, except for Mishima (one of the best movies of all time) and this. There are many symbolic scenes, and very frightening/brutal too. This is the type of movie that should make people appreciate their parents and be grateful that they didn't live the life of any of these people. 4 stars, rent it now! "}{"Title":"Tour-De force performances by both Nolte and Coburn highlight a very good character study.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction is a very bleak and depressing movie from legendary writer Paul Schrader (Raging Bull, Taxi Driver).  Schrader also directed this mesmerizing character study.  Nick Nolte (The Tin Red Line, Prince of Tides) stars as Wade Whitehouse, the local sheriff of a small town.  He's not a very good man, he smokes pot, drinks booze, has a poor relationship with his ex-wife and daughter, and doesn't care much for life.  He is still haunted by memories of his abusive father who still lives near by.  James Coburn (Eraser, Payback) plays the father making him a chilling character in a wonderful Oscar winning performance.  The one saving grace in Nolte's life is his girlfriend, well-played by Sissy Spacek (JFK, Blast from the Past). Another person in Nolte's life is his brother who lives miles away, Nolte talks to his brother over the phone and gets along with him when he comes over.  Willem Dafoe (Platoon, The Last Temptation of Christ) is great in a very under-written role as the brother.  At the start of movie a man has died in the woods because he accidently shot himself, Nolte thinks its a conspiracy and tries to solve it.  The murder mystery is not the main story of the movie, the main story is the gradual breakdown of Nolte's character. Nolte is fantastic in a wonderful performance that in my mind (from what I've seen) is the second best performance of the year (behind Edward Norton for American History X).  Nolte is always convincing in a subtle performance of a man who is losing his grip on life.  Highly recommended for superb performances and a well-written script, though a downer movie. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece, that talks about love, about blame and redemption, and that teaches us that there is always a light at the end of the tunnel!","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction  is not a film for everybody. When Paul Schrader decided to film Russel Banks's book (the same author of  The Sweet Hereafter ), he had the sensibility and the correct vision in  to transpose such a pretty and touching work for the cinema, without making the book  lose its essence the sad and depressive climate , the anguish of a man who doesn't find a true love and who is  feared to turn the same as his father, a rude and violent man, alcoholic, that never achieved to  love his children.The city in where the film happens combines with perfection with the protagonist's spiritual state cold, afraid, tense. Nick Nolte has in Wade Whitehouse's interpretation one of his great moments, without a doubt, Affliction  is the best film of his career, that was already being found losing it's breath. Therefore, Affliction  went very good for the star's career.The Oscar of this year, without a doubt, deserves to go for him, because the actor achieved to pass for the audience all the emotion and suffering, being, in some moments, impossible to contain the tears.The story is simple, without great moments, it tells a common man's life, equal to me, you or your parents, who, from one hour  to another, decides to place all his mistakes and  defects back and to look for inside of himself his largest virtues. And it is on that moment that  Affliction  gets into the tracks it's basic ideas come, about redemption, the blame that torments us and the redemption that frees us. Wade Whitehouse is a depressed and tough sheriff of a cold and small city, wich is close to the border of Canada. Nobody in the city seems to respect Wade, nobody seems to like him, even his daughter sees him as somebody distant. It is when Wade decides to look for the justice and to end at the same time with his sad and disturbing problems that  Affliction  is consecrated as one of the best films of the last times. It is on that moment in that Wade challenges his largest fears, and in which his greatests qualities come to the top, where the film deserves to get an Oscar nomination as best picture.And the end of the film  is glorious.Attend this film. Unlike garbages of the gender, Affliction  is one of the best works, one of the best films already done, it is a touching, sad and thrilling work , that talks about love, about blame, redemption and about the anguishes that sometimes destroy our lives. With a superb cast, led by Nick Nolte (in his best performance since  The Prince of Tides ), an efficient and diligent direction, a picture that combines with perfection to the climate proposed by the film, Affliction  is a small masterpiece, a study about the man, about, for more incredible than it seems, the human spirit and about the fact that it always triumphs in the end. "},{"Title":"What were you expecting?","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised by how many people thought this was a terrible film. It's not.  This film is a character study.  It's not an action flick, it doesn't fit any Hollywood formula, it doesn't have a climactic ending.  What it does have is a look at some very disfunctional, yet very believable people, and of how one in particular (Nick Nolte's character) got that way.The acting by everyone involved, particularly Nolte and James Coburn, is first-rate.  I doubt if either will win on Oscar (both are nominated), but both performances are worthy of the prize.  My only criticism is that this film is a tad overly-depressing.  Not a happy lot; these people.  Just be glad you're not like one of them (unless, of course, you are).  "},{"Title":"The Book is much better","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First of all I watched the film first and was captivated by it. I then I needed to read the book. The book had some interesting plots that the movie did not have. The first scene that comes to mind is a scene where Wade shows up at Heady Rogers apartment and gets her to sleep with him after he gets her to feel bad for him. I like the detail that Banks goes into in this particular plot in the book. He also tells Wade's Story of Margie Fog much different. She is more of a product of not having lots of women in a small northern town. Margie is more of a town bike in the book and one of those women that are recycled by the men that live there.The second scene is one of Jimmy pushing wade out of the plow into a snowbank. Wade is much darker in the book and really does not feel love for Margie at all. "},{"Title":"The best movies are the ones that nobody knows about","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  And that is the case with this film.  This is a terrific story, carried out by outstanding performances from everyone.  Nick Nolte plays a man who was abused by his father his whole life, and when his job gets to be too much, he just suddenly explodes.  It's a terribly sad story, but its done extremely well.  Anyone should be able to sympathise with Nolte's character.  Although the story is somewhat similar to Nolte's other film, The Prince Of Tides(1991), this is done a lot better.  This is certainly one of the most underrated movies of the 90's.  Warning Willem Dafoe fans He is only in one scene, and his total screentime adds up to about 5 minutes, but you should still check this movie out.  ***1/2 out of ****, or 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A thoughtful tale of never-ending misery.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A seriously heart-rending and agonizing yarn, based on the novel by Russell Banks (The Sweet Hereafter) and adapted by writer-director Paul Schrader, focuses on the attention of Wade Whitehouse (Nick Nolte), a small-town sheriff who struggles to forget his terrible past and steering clear of the path that his heavily intimidating, alcoholic father, Glenn Whitehouse (James Coburn) took years ago. The movie shows plenty of flashbacks of when the father tortured not only Wade, who was only a child at the time, but his younger brother, Rolfe, and their mother, too.  Are those scenes excruciating and painful to watch? Yes, however; the moments serve as a crucial element of the story which can't be forgotten.Recent Oscar nominees Sissy Spacek (In the Bedroom) and Willem Dafoe (Shadow of the Vampire) round out the cast as Wade's girlfriend and Rolfe, who's now grown-up and left the town several years ago.  Their characters add another key piece to the tale, making it very clear and better to understand for the viewer.As I conclude my review, I was satisfied even though there were moments where I cringed.  Nolte is fine here, but the movie truly belongs to Coburn, who certainly makes his presence felt here right away and won a Best Supporting Oscar for his performance.  Plus, he(Coburn) makes some old pros of being sadistic like Kevin Bacon and Dennis Hopper look lame.Affliction may not be Schrader's best film, but it's irriestable to watch. A thoughtful tale of never-ending misery.  "},{"Title":"Unrelenting Downer","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't imagine anyone in their right mind wanting to see this film more than once, and once may be too much for a lot of people.  I can appreciate Paul Schrader and Russell Banks' message about child abuse having perpetual ramifications for its victims, and dead-end lives, but still...who wants to have their face rubbed in that for two hours!  I wanted to see an MGM musical after this bilge.Its not the actors fault  Nick Nolte is impressively over-the-edge and sustains his performance well.  James Coburn also registers well as his vicious father, but its strictly a one-note performance that, in my opinion, did not deserve the oscar he won, which was a career award.  Sissy Spacek, as always, is a breath of fresh air, but given far too little to do.  The child actress, though, who played Nolte's daughter was irritating in the extreme, and an affliction on the audience. "},{"Title":"A movie with no direction","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction they called it.  Ya it had pain and grief, so the title did fit the movie very well.  However this movie had no direction.  There were many little problems through out the movie, which at times made it hard to focus on because the movie kept switching from a set of characters struggles to a different set.  As I watched this movie, I kept thinking that they would tie in some of these issues and bring the story together in the end, but it never happened.  This movie was a very slow and dry paced film.  Yes at the end of the movie, it was clear what the main goal was, but how they got there was simply terrible.  I don't recommend this movie to anyone.  I endured an hour and 55 minutes of it and I never would again.  "},{"Title":"The worst affliction is watching this entire thing from beginning to end...","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This piece of sloth won an Oscar? You've got to be kidding me. This is perhaps the most slow moving, boring, uneventful drama I've ever watched. You kept waiting for something to happen, and nothing did. Half the time you couldn't even make out the dialogue (I think Nolte was drunk or stoned in real life as he mumbled through the script; and, no, I don't think it was intentional). There's a toothache, a murder, a divorce....and why do I care? This movie struggles trying to decide what to be. Is it a murder mystery? A drama? Or just a pointless waste of time? Mostly the latter. The ending made absolutely no sense at all and was completely unfulfilling to the script and the audience. The expected gradual buildup one anticipated was completely absent...there is no descent into madness or anything like that. It is more like 2 hours of nothing, horribly drawn out, followed by about 5 minutes of a series of events that should have been the climax, mostly reduced to flashback and 3rd party offscreen narration! (And bad narration, I might add - Willem Dafoe might be a great actor, but he should never be allowed to read/narrate a film again. He sounds like he's reading out of a book.) I understand the deeper intent, but the execution was pathetic. I would not curse sitting through this entire film again on anyone. There are much better movies out there to deal with substance abuse and violence...this is not one of them. Mostly it's just a bunch of exposition and wasted time. Quite an affliction on the viewer indeed! "},{"Title":"An abusive father, a wounded son","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In a small New Hampshire town Wade (Nick Nolte), a middle-aged man, is unable to gain much purchase on life. Twice divorced from the same woman he is unable to connect with his daughter, at those times that he has parental rights to see her. As the town cop he is hardly a notch above Barney Fife, drinking and smoking pot on the job and beholden to the town mayor. Most everything Wade tries to do turns sour. A central event in the movie is a hunting accident involving the death of a wealthy out-of-state union man who had been accompanied by a young local guide. Wade suspects that the death may have been a murder and his investigation stirs up conflicts with the local power structure. Wade had some theories about the shooting but he did not even conduct a thorough investigation of the crime scene, like the position of the body, the angle of the entry wound, the consistency of the story from the hunter's guide--things thatwould have gone a long way in solving some of the event's mysteries. Even more to the point, there was no search for the bullet that killed the hunter-- that would at least have proved whether the bullet came from the hunter's own gun, and thus have ruled out the theory of an independent shooter. When we meet Wade's father Glenn (James Coburn) we understand a lot about why Wade is the way he is. Glenn is a man who takes out his life's frustrations and failures by drinking and dominating those around him. Coburn gives a remarkable performance--he is physically and emotionally intimidating. My anxiety levels went up every time he was on the screen, and even when not on screen he cast a shadow over the proceedings. My reactions to him were probably similar to Wade's and I could feel what it might be like to live in the shadow of such a man. The score accentuated my anxiety levels. Actors are interesting--how could James Coburn get himself to play such a despicable character so convincingly? I do have to admire his acting here. Willem Defoe turns up as Wade's more stable brother Rolfe. Rolfe had the good sense to escape the toxic family environment of his youth. Unfortunately Wade did not have the spine to stand up to the withering force of his father's personality. Whenever Wade was around his father he reacted to him like he was dealing with a vicious feral animal.Pretty far from the end I had to think that things were not going to end well. The only spark in Wade's life was a relation with a local waitress (Sissy Spacek), but the humiliations Wade had suffered finally culminated in uncontrolled self-destructive behavior.There is an epilogue that wraps things up a bit, but I am not sure of the truth of the comment made there that Wade is an example of someone who broke the chain of abuse; I think his daughter was pretty scared of him. Growing up in such a household as Wade would indeed make future relationships difficult, particularly living in the same small town with such a father. "}{"Title":"Nolte terrific but story meanders a bit","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wade Whitehouse (Nick Nolte) is a small town sheriff in New Hampshire. He's out with his daughter Jill on Halloween. He has a troubled relationship with her and his ex-wife Lillian. He is known as a drinker. Local Jack Hewitt guides a wealthy outsider to hunt for a prize buck. Jack claims that he accidentally shot himself but Wade is suspicious of the death especially since he's suppose to testify in an organized crime case. Wade and his girlfriend Margie Fogg (Sissy Spacek) visit his abusive father Glen (James Coburn) and find his mother dead in the freezing house. Wade's brother Rolfe (Willem Dafoe) and sister Lena return for the funeral. I don't always like narration and this opening narration really puts me off. It emphasizes to me the novelized nature of the movie which highlights the story's unfocused meandering nature. Nick Nolte is terrific and the cast is full of top notch players. It's nice to see James Coburn still acting with power. I need the movie to be more focus. There's a murder mystery and quickly, it's taken over by a dysfunctional family drama. It seems to be a constant pitfall for all adaptations from novels. The transfer from the page to the screen is not always smooth. "},{"Title":"More of an emotional drama than a suspense thriller","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" All along the movie. you know there is some mystery, something unexplained.. but you are still surprised at the end.. But that is only a part of the story.. the movie shows so truly some of the human emotions and sufferings, you feel it could be you in place of Wade.. Any of us could have done exactly what Wade did in his life.. any of us could be subject to the reactions Wade was subject to..from a wife, from a daughter, from a brother.. even from a lover.. emotions can run deeper , deeper and deeper.. The excellent photography of the forest, the snow, the snowfall is beautiful and bleak at the same time.. The movie once again shows that the anguish and angst of man can be same in a cool environs of a small town as it can be in a restless and explosive metropolis.. Nick Nolte is one those fine actors, who really gets into the skin of the character.. there are unforgettable scenes (like the tooth..ex..) Unfortunate that he did not win the Oscar. "},{"Title":"Intense and unnerving energy throughout.","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I agree completely with jakasper1's comment; it's a great film, but it's taken me watching it on about 3 different occasions to take the whole thing in. Robards and Nolte deliver some of the most realistic, disturbing, and powerful potrayals of their careers. They really shine in this one....they make this film what it is a pure, raw, unsettling, emotional semi-masterpiece.Also, kudos to Willem Dafoe, small role and some narrating, but very effective.Definitely give it a watch.Devlin "},{"Title":"Affliction","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nolte is well cast as a man on the verge of a complete mental breakdown, due to an unusual hunting accident and his past involving an abusive father(Coburn, in a superb Oscar winning performance). Startling performances, however cannot save the slow moving script written by veteran Schrader.     "},{"Title":"Depressing tale of useless lives","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A well made and unfortunately realistic account of an abused son who grows to be useless man, unable to love, assume personal responsibility or break the cycle abuse.  Very well acted by both Nolte and Coburn.  The story, however, is shameful and depressing. "},{"Title":"a study in the harm caused by abuse","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction, a film written and directed by Paul Schrader, is a well crafted film.  It is set in the bleakness of a rural New Hampshire winter which matches well the mood and script of the film.  The main characters, Wade Whitehouse (Nolte) and his abusive father (Coburn) are interesting, believable, and well acted.  We see how the sins of the father so to speak are visited on his son.  Wade is all at once insecure, abusive, violent, confused, and yet vulnerable.  We see him slowly losing touch with reality. James Coburn plays the abusive father flawlessly and is deserving of his Oscar.  My one criticism about the film is that it ends abruptly with a couple minutes of summary of several events.  I might also say that this is not the genre of film I enjoy but it is well done.  Three stars!!! "},{"Title":"The story isn't as compelling as I hoped it would be","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm already quite familiar with the movies that feature Nick Nolte and I must admit that I normally always enjoy his movies. I truly believe that he is one of the more gifted actors in Hollywood who should get the chance to play some bigger roles in more important movies. Take for instance this Affliction. It has been directed by an unknown director and when we are talking about money, than this is clearly not one of the biggest Hollywood productions ever. I wouldn't even be surprised if this movie never made it to the movie theaters over here. I certainly hadn't heard of it before and I only watched this movie because Nick Nolte played an important role in it, but that doesn't mean that it can't be any good of course.Wade Whitehouse is a police officer / snow plow driver in a small town who hasn't exactly had the most perfect life. As a kid he was always humiliated and mentally tortured by his father and as an adult he wasn't able to save his marriage with his ex-wife Lillian, causing him to lose all contact with his daughter Jill, and his job doesn't really give him any satisfaction or respect. The only person that cares for him is his girlfriend Margie, who accepts him the way he is. When on the first day of the hunting season his best friend takes a wealthy businessman on a hunting trip and that man gets killed in suspicious conditions, Wade decides to play detective and starts investigating the case despite the fact that Jack insists that it was nothing more but an accidental, self-inflicted shot. Gradually Wade finds more and more evidence that Jack lied. But is this really what happened or is Wade gradually losing his last grip on reality?I must say that the concept of the story is very intriguing and I'm convinced that this could have been an award winning story, if done properly. And that's the problem with this movie. The idea behind it is more than OK, but the execution left me with a double feeling. It just wasn't as compelling and gripping as I hoped it would be. It wasn't bad, but the entire movie didn't completely convince me either. However, the acting certainly hasn't got anything to do with that. All actors did a good job, but Nick Nolte was in my opinion really outstanding. His performance is probably the best reason why you should watch this movie.In the end this certainly isn't a bad movie and I'm already glad that it is so much better than so many other Hollywood products, but saying that this is one of the best movies ever would be exaggerated as well. I liked the fact that the characters were quite well developed and that the movie tried to be original without impossible explosions or other action shots, but the story wasn't as good as I hoped it would be. I give this movie a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Small Town Confidential","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Writer Banks earlier provided us (with help obviously from Egoyan) the superb The Sweet Hereafter. And this is another one of those small town drama unfolding. With, as you would expect, a couple of twists.Nick Nolte plays sheriff/snow-shoveling guy Wade Whitehouse, a troubled man, for sure. He's not too happy with his jobs, is divorced, barely sees his daughter, has drinking issues, has memories of his terrible dad and finds his mother dead on a visit. Ray of light is his new girlfriend Marge (Sissy Spacek), but that's about it.At the time of the dead of his mother, another issue comes up, as a businessman is killed (or was it an accident?) during a hunting trip. Conspiracy theories come up with Wade as he slowly decends into madness, not being helped by a terrible toothache. Nolte 'goes Douglas' (in Falling Down) as the movie kinda loses it near the end.Good performances and a decent story, though one would have expected more, looking at the oscar nominations. 6/10. "},{"Title":"A movie that connects with a deeply rooted fear","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This review is intended for those who have already seen this film and may spoil the enjoyment of watching the picture for the first time.It's the next day for me after watching Affliction, and I'm feeling terribly sad for Wade Whitehouse, the film's lead character played by Nick Nolte. Wade has many virtues we find in our heros. He's the chief law enforcement officer in a small New Hampshire town and popular with many of his fellows. He's a father and a twice-divorced husband but both to the same woman, so he's very likeable yet he has problems. And he stands up against the strong in protection of the weak. I'm grieving (wading in sorrow) for Wade because his life plunges down an abyss, and by the film's end we learn that he is no hero. This powerful emotional response to a film is what make Affliction a great movie, well worth renting.The road to Hell Wade takes began in his childhood. Back then, a demon blocked his path, a demon he called his father, Glen Whitehouse, played by James Coburn. Glen, who throughout his life abuses alcohol, then his wife and then his children, presents the challenge to Wade to develop into a hero, a dragon slayer. And Wade does fight back against this bully, a prototypical figure of fear that many of knew growing up. Glen picks on those who a smaller than him, easily hurting and tossing to the ground little Wade, then towering over him and tauting him sadistically to come take some more punishment, finally to ridicule him with laughter when Wade remains sprawled on the ground. But Wade cannot slay this dragon, and Glen continues to feed of the fear of his family.Coburn, who many know as playing the debonaire title role in the Flint movies, has been cast against character as villianous Glen. In this movie, he is once again playing the title role; he is the Affliction. All though a good deal older than his Flint days, Coburn remains handsome and charismatic. His calculated acting skill, and some fine directing, turn him into a very scary man. His portrayal haunts you way past the closing credits. In fact, his performance won Coburn the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. After watching the film, ask yourself whether you would break every moral and legal code and murder this father if he were yours.In the movie's story, Wade could go either way. He's planning his future, trying to take the good parts of his past, such as his daughter, Jill, and start a new life with a woman, Margie, played by Sissy Spacek, who has known him since childhood. Yet there's an unexpected turn. When Wade brings Margie over to his parents in an attempt to introduce her to them, Wade discovers that his mother has died in her bed and his father seems to be suicidal. Without his mother, the barrier restraining Glen from entering Wade's life again no longer exists. Wade re-enters his father's sway.The film follows Wade as he descends. What may seem petty to the film watcher, turns out to be egregious to Wade, who, like his father, uses violence to control his stress. What seems to me as a turning point, or a place in the film where the audience suddenly discovers Wade is not really the hero they thought he was, is when he spends a hefty $500 to proceed with a legal battle to gain control of his daughter despite the warning his lawyer gives him that what he will be doing may hurt his daughter emotionally. Soon following this decision, Wade forgoes the cost of visiting a dentist to extract his own aching tooth, using an old set of pliers.By the end of the film, Wade, who doesn't realize it, has become the demon he knew to be his father. This is a very good film and what I enjoy from the independent film industry. It's not mainstream with a Hollywood story and a feel-good ending. This is about a dysfunctional family and how that kind of damage can afflict a person, a family, for generations.-- Glass Charming  "},{"Title":"Great acting","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very sad movie about a lot of very real people-alcoholism, and it's close companion domestic violence, should be on post office walls as Public Enemies #1 and #2 in this country, the Land of the Free. Although I was moved by the characters and the bleak setting (by the way, I've lived in New England all my life and never seen that much snow on Halloween, or anytime close to it) but somehow, although the acting was superb, Ward's mental breakdown just didn't seem to ring that true. Yes, he was a drunken screw up-like a lot of men eaten alive by abuse-but he just did not seem like a man on the brink. It was hard to believe he could suddenly develop these weird paranoid fantasies when he had really shown no signs of an Axis I disorder before that, to the point he kills a man. By far the best scene was the gathering at the house after the mother's death, when you get a full sense of what Glen had done and was still doing to all of his children. Sissy Spacek had only a small role but she is always worth watching. Good movie for the acting and character studies but weak plot. "}{"Title":"Dysfunctional with a large D","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After growing up under a violent, drunken father and a do nothing abused mother, a man's adult life becomes a total mess. A mental wreck, he is unable to bond with anyone and slowly goes over the deep end after a hunting accident. Nolte gives one of his better performances as the doomed man incapable of loving or being loved.  "},{"Title":"Subtle Like A Train Wreck","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Silence can be so golden.  Unfortunately, Paul Schrader doesn't seem to agree.  There is a lot of dialogue in this movie, which means a smaller percentage of it is actually meaningful.  This is not what you might call economical storytelling.  Also, I tend to think that improbable storylines devalue otherwise meaningful films.  To borrow a line, crude propaganda for a good cause is still crude propaganda.The somber climate and the bleak perspective are well established, but that isn't enough to save this film.  James Coburn is obviously the standout here, and Nick Nolte actually gives a serviceable performance, but otherwise I don't have anything positive to say about this film except that the setting is nice. "},{"Title":"Depressing yet utterly powerhouse film delivers the goods","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction is a film written (from a book) and directed by Paul Schrader with care and goodness with his actors.  Another one of his films, Blue Collar, examined men under pressure, as does this film, only it is in an entirely different situation and setting, thought the theme hangs loomingly.Nick Nolte gives one of the best male performances of 1998 as a drunk, abusive, and overall sad father and ex-husband/sherrif who has lost control of his life; mainly in due part to his also volcanicly drunk and ultra-abusive father (James Colburn in a richly deserved Oscar Winning role).  When the two are on the screen, which isn't too often, the film is a 4 star movie.  Some parts lag on, but the film overall is powerfull, one of the most of it's kind in the late 90's, and is definately up there on the list on movies about families (crazily with Ordinary People, Pay It Forward and You Can Count On Me).  Willem Dafoe also appears as Nolte's brother and is the film's narrator.  A "},{"Title":"A excellent character study of a marginally interesting character.","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction peers into every nook and cranny of the Nolte character's life as it shows him, scarred from a life of abuse at the hands of his father (Coburn), stumbling in every relationship in spite of good intentions and slowly unraveling like human entropy. An excellent film in all respects, this award winning drama accomplishes little more than treating the audience to some sterling performances Nolte and Coburn in particular. Well worth a watch though of more interest to critics than the populace. "},{"Title":"Dark, depressing and inconclusive but still good","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie paints a dark picture of a small town man who is slowly losing his grip on life. After a bitter divorce, Wade Whitehouse (Nick Nolte) finds himself with a daughter who doesn't want to spend time with him and a job as police officer in a town with little crime. He hopes for things that won't happen and when he must tend to his abusive father, he starts to lose it.  This movie is not action packed and doesn't evince any emotions other than pity. Nevertheless, it is well made and Nick Nolte and James Coburn both give excellent performances. "},{"Title":"A let down!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really had high hopes for this film but it was a slow, shuffling mess. I could hardly understand Sissy Spacek or Nick Nolte in the quieter moments when they both mumbled their lines. The icy setting was used to good effect but the small appearance by Willem Dafoe was a waste. What drew me to this film had to be the Oscar that was given to Mr James Coburn whose previous work i've admired. His performance while very good as pure evil did not get the screen time it deserved. More of Nick Nolte and James Coburn together and less of the deer hunt killing sub plot! What a waste. *1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Gripping, harsh drama...","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very surreal look at a down on his luck sherriff (Nick Nolte's best performance ever).  He gives a brutal, ugly performance as Wade Whitehouse, a man that grew up with an alcoholic, abusive father played by James Coburn (Best Supporting Actor Oscar), a rocky relationship with his daughter, and the disrespect of the town.  Eventually he becomes as afflicted as his father and begins to lash out violently and excessively. "},{"Title":"Realistically hard-hitting, rare drama","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Movies like Affliction tend to get elbowed out of the way by flashy, pushy crowd-pleasers lacking originality. It's a shame. This is a fine, well-acted drama by generally strong writer-director Paul Schrader, who has scripted movies such as Taxi Driver and Raging Bull as well as films he's directed. Nick Nolte is outstanding as a New Hampshire police officer who's slowly crumbling as his personal life and professional life tug him in different, destructive directions, while the legacy of his violent father drags him down. The film isn't perfect; the script at times doesn't hit as hard as it could, but this is generally very fine, rare filmmaking. 8 of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"You had to be there?","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you grew up in a healthy family - if there is any such thing as a healthy family - you may not like AFFLICTION. It had so many powerful connections to my own personal life that I found it nearly overwhelming. Great, just great. Although James Coburn did deserve the Oscar he won as supporting actor in this, it was Nick Nolte who just killed me, watching it. And the ineffable Sissy Spacek great, just great. "},{"Title":"Affliction is right.","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you like pleasure spiked with pain, by all means, rush out and see this film. This movie does present a successful formula to win the coveted gold statue. Make a piece of crap film, insert one shining character, get an under-appreciated genius of an actor. Viola! James Coburn and James Coburn alone makes this movie watchable. A friend and I had to reassure each other that if we suffered long enough then Coburn would show back up on screen. His performance is so good, that we realized we might forget how bad this movie is and somewhere down the road delude ourselves that it was good and watch it again. However, we must never forget that no matter how good Coburn is, this movie isn't worth the pain. "}{"Title":"Good performances in a mediocre story","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction could have been a good movie, exploring the transfer of anger and violence from father to son. Instead, it takes a rather heavy-handed approach to its subject matter, and with a shallow plot providing shaky support, the movie doesn't really get anywhere.Nick Nolte, in a top-drawer performance, plays the adult son, now a cop in small  New Hampshire town. James Coburn, as the father, turns in a gritty performance that earned him an Oscar. Sissy Spacek was wasted in a marginal role.Narration works well in some films, but not this one. It seems it was thrown in to hold the story together, but is off-putting and keeps the viewer even further removed. "},{"Title":"The old man should have been committed years ago.","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In Affliction (** out of ****) I had trouble accepting the Nick Nolte character as a tragic figure.  I assume all his problems functioning as an adult can be traced back to his abusive father, but after watching him make one stubbornly wrongheaded decision after another for two hours, my patience started to wear thin.  Everyone else in the town, including his own brother, has washed their hands of the old man years ago, why can't he?  Why does he persist in trying to have a relationship with someone who is so psychotically mean he should probably be committed?  Maybe the nasty old man is right about his son after all.  Maybe he is just a loser through and through.  James Coburn tries to find some humor and humanity in a one-dimensional role, but it's a losing battle, I think.  Willem Dafoe's heavy-handed closing narration manages to wrap up some aspects of the story, while opening up new mystifications.  Some bloopers  Although the story of Affliction supposedly begins on Halloween in autumnal New Hampshire, it already appears to be mid-January with a heavy snowfall on the ground.  That's because the film was actually shot in Canada in mid-winter.  So even the look of the movie doesn't quite ring true.  Also, even though Nolte is seen pulling a tooth out of his own mouth, nothing seems to be missing when he smiles broadly in several subsequent scenes. "},{"Title":"Small and powerful film.","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction is a small slice of life picture that deals with some very dark subjects. Nolte gives a very good performance, Coburn does as well. Abuse is a very touchy subject, Paul Schrader is never afraid to take it on however. This film is haunting and the cinematography is beautiful. I liked this film alot but felt very empty at the end. Still I think people should see this film in hopes of understanding certain afflictions passed on for generations. "},{"Title":"Engrossing!","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Very engrossing!  My own childhood was not exactly happy either, but after watching the movie, I felt I was still relatively lucky.  Superb performance by Nick Nolte!  He was able to make me fully empathize with his dilemma. James Coburn was great too!  He can really get under your skin. "},{"Title":"I was disappointed.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented the video because I am a big fan of Nolte and because it had earned some very good reviews. I was disappointed to find the plot predictable and the characters uninteresting. About half-way through the picture I didn't care what happened to any of them, I just wished they would get it over with.Two days after watching it, I've already forgotten how it ended. "},{"Title":"Sadly overrated","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nick Nolte is an amazing actor, who seems to play Nick Nolte too often. His character in Affliction seems something we know he could play.  He's not a very diverse actor, so it's almost disappointing to see such an average performance in 'His' role. Jack Nicholson did the same thing in As Good as it Gets ( he is a very diverse actor, though). The movie itself is just okay.  It didn't make my top ten of 1998, but it is not a bad film.  Sissy Spacek gives a truly stunning performance.  She deserved an Oscar nomination.  James Coburn, on the other hand, does not deserve the award over Billy Bob Thorton.  I would have gladly gave his nomination to Jeremy Davies or Bill Murray.6.5/10 Final word Bleak as hell, but has some good images. "},{"Title":"Conflicted","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't say I liked Affliction, nor can I say I hated it.  It's been 3 months since I've seen it and I'm still trying to decide.  One thing's for sure, Nick Nolte and James Coburn were great.  Nolte as Wade whose life is falling apart, and Coburn as his alcoholic and verbally abusive dad carry the film.  Plus, Sissy Spacek is good as Wade's girlfriend who wants to stay loyal to him but eventually gets fed up.The plot (if there actually was one) was pretty weak.  If someone were to ask me exactly what it was I'd sort of be lost to tell them.  That's why I can't decide whether or not I liked or hated this film. "},{"Title":"A fine film, perhaps Paul Schaeder's best","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a date movie, a Hollywood formula movie, a comic romp, or Gen-X whimsy. It is dark, brooding, and sad--as is the excellent novel on which it was based. See it and learn something about great writing, acting, and storytelling.  "},{"Title":"Exposes Egoyan","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Schrader's Russell Banks adaptation may be rough-around-the-edges, unevenly paced and somewhat murky. But Affliction has a raw power that reveals how smug and sanitized Atom Egoyan's Banks-derived The Sweet Hereafter really is. Schrader, as he has always done, looks fearlessly and compassionately at people who cant stop themselves from creating their own hell. In The Sweet Hereafter, Egoyan's grieving parents are visual components of a postcard from the snowy mountains of majestic British Columbia.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as The Sweet Hereafter","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is another adapted screenplay from a Russell Banks' novel after last year's masterpiece The Sweet Hereafter. Paul Schrader has always been a profundly interesting personality; involved in the writing of Scorsese's films and in the directing of such visually daring/non-commercial pictures as Mishima. We have hardly heard of him the last few years (who has seen Touch?). This film seems to have taken dust on the shelves as it actually is a 1997 film. Actors are mostly excellent (Oscars possibilities for James Coburn and Nick Nolte) but the film never really takes off as if it is stuck into the deep snow of those remote locations we are exposed to. It is not a widescreen film and as such does not take advantage of the winter landscapes as in Atom Egoyan's film. It lacks of dynamics and its Like father, like son morality at the end does not really convince.  "}{"Title":"Relentlessly downbeat ...............","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Great New Hampshire atmosphere. Great actors on board. Now for the not so great. Depression reigns and Nick Nolte's character slowly descends into paranoia and madness. Not exactly a recipe for entertainment. There are several angles presented, including what appears to have been a hunting accident, Nolte's strained relationship with his ex wife and daughter, and finally dealing with his monstrous father, Charles Coburn. Expect fine acting, but there is very little entertainment value. Personally I thought Affliction played more like a soap opera, and not like a feature movie. At best a one time watch, and at worst a forgettable film. - MERK "},{"Title":"A cop investigates a murder but also has personal problems to deal with.","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Visually nice, but flawed drama that has situations and dialogues which aren't always all that credible. The least credible of all is the scene where Nolte's apprx. 10 year-old daughter tries to protect Spacek and physically attacks Dad. Daddy then punches her in the mouth, like in the Wild West! The epilogue then has Dafoe treating the viewers like morons, spelling out exactly what the movie was all about namely that the affliction is the violent behaviour passed from father to son, and the domino effect of problems this causes through generations. As if this message were so well buried under the thickets of the complex plot to require an explanation. "},{"Title":"Better than had hoped for","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well-paced telling of the story helped to get the best of Nick Nolte especially, but also other members of the cast. If this film is a faithful version of the book, obviously the tale was told unhurriedly, adding greater depth to its telling and the characterization.Generally this kind of film, which might be classified as suspenseful thriller, does not represent my favourite appetite. But with an interesting story line played out at an intelligent rhythm amid the nicely-photographed snow-bound countryside of New Hampshire, and with well-tuned interpretations, the result is a film which turns out to be better than expected. Admirable directing here, and certainly one of Nick Nolte's more memorable parts.Well worth watching if this film comes your way.  "},{"Title":"affliction","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction is a film that is bleak in the extreme.  It's about a man (Nick Nolte), his father (James Coburn), his girlfriend (Sissy Spacek) and his daughter.  It tells the story of Nolte, who is wandering through a pointless existence.  The film, to me was about how Nolte tried so hard to not be like his physically and mentally abusive, alcoholic father, but no matter how he tried he just became more of the  same.  The film captures small time life so dead on, like few films this side of The Sweet Hereafter and The Straight Story.  This film is also based on Russel Banks' novel, the author who penned The Sweet Hereafter.  While this film doesn't boast the visual beauty and intelligently interwoven narrative structure of The Sweet Hereafter, it has its similarities.  Both set in small town in winter, both extremely well acted character studies, both dealing with tragedy.  The tragedy of a bus crash in The Sweet Hereafter, the tragedy of a man's wasted life in Affliction.  The acting is  superb, even Spacek who has little to do is worth watching.  There is a police murder investigation subplot that detracts away from the main road, but it establishes Nolte's more paranoid side of his character and gives Nolte's brother (Willem Dafoe)an excuse to make a few more appearances.  My favorite part is when an outdoor structure is engulfed in flames, visible through the window beside Nolte sitting at his kitchen table.  If you have a tendency to get depressed, this isn't a movie for you, but if you have a generally sober mindset and you're not bothered by downers, Affliction should be a welcome addition to your film oevre. "},{"Title":"Grim, powerful tale of a man beyond redemption.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Reading some of the other comments on this film, I am dumbfounded at the complete cluelessness of some of these people.  Yes, it's true that AFFLICTION is not a happy film.  It's not a neatly-plotted detective story.  It's not an adrenaline-pumping action flick.  What it IS is a bleak, no-holds-barred examination of the pain -- emotional, psychological, and physical -- that human beings both endure and inflict upon each other.  If this isn't something that interests you, here's some advice  DON'T WATCH THIS FILM.If, however, you're in the mood for a powerful, brilliantly-acted drama about the sins of the father visited upon the sons, then this is worth a look.  Nick Nolte and James Coburn are simply extraordinary; Coburn won an Oscar for his role, and Nolte deserved one for his.  Watching their dance of mutual hatred is like witnessing a horrible car accident in slow motion; you don't want to see but you can't look away.  This isn't fun, there are no easy answers, and events don't always have a happy ending.  In this icily brilliant film, director Paul Schrader and novelist Russell Banks show you how and why.  "},{"Title":"Many reasons to turn mad","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nick Nolte was given quite a hard role to play. The whole film is a portrait of his character, Wade, and that character is very complex. Wade is becoming mentally ill during the movie and if you don't watch very closely you realize this quite late into the film. However, there are many reasons for Wade to turn mad His daughter doesn't want to live with him; he isn't too accurate in his job and his mother dies, while his father is hard to cope with in his old age. Unusual and sad things happened to him and as a consequence, Wade starts to imagine completely irrational things. What I found fantastic is that for the viewer those things don't seem so utterly absurd at the beginning. Some might even think the film is a thriller. It isn't. It's the sad drama of one single man who isn't able to exert an influence on his neighbourhood but is somehow obsessed with doing this.The story ends with a tragic event. The narrator, Wade's brother Rolfe (a thoughtful Willem Dafoe) announces it at the beginning, so the viewer spends the movie thinking about what it might be. I don't know whether this is a good idea because it makes the ending have a rather unsatisfying effect, but at least the speculations help over the lenghts the movie has after all. &#132;Affliction` is a well-acted, sad, sad, sad, sad movie to think about.  "},{"Title":"Who likes this kind of torture?","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Schrader (who penned Taxi Driver and directed Light Sleeper) again takes us into the head of a mentally crumbling  loner and finds-- surprise!-- dark shadows and depression.  Who likes this kind of torture?  As low-rent cop Wade Whitehouse, Nick Nolte gives an impressive, but oppressive, performance, as does Oscar winner James Coburn, who plays Wade's abusive dad.  There's a murder mystery buried in this nightmare, but Schrader keeps casting it aside for repetitious moments of angst.  The revelation that the sins of the father haunt the sons.  And for that we waste Sissy Spacek, and two hours of our time.  Painful. "},{"Title":"A lot of talented performers are wasted in a desperate search to find meaning or reason to give to this empty, depressing film.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not good. Just sits around and festers, trying to decidewhat kind of a movie it is -- a murder mystery, a  dysfunctional family melodrama, or a Heeere's Johnny!kind of psycho horror thing. Suggests that there's a  mystery, and then does nothing with it, except to slap usback with a reminder that life is not mysterious afterall, but mundane. We know that. The fact that it was madein '97, two and a half years before its US release, suggeststhat there were some long debates about what to  do with this picture. Apparently Willem Dafoe's characterwas enlarged to include a voice-over, which tries to  redeem the film by explaining its message to the audiencethat it is -- finally -- about broken relationships between fathers andsons  -- a very real crisis in America, but one that has beensaid a lot better in  other films and plays, from the tragic masterpiece Deathof a Salesman to the overlooked comedy-melodrama StewartSaves his Family.Affliction may imitate Fargo with  slightly quirky northern accents and lots of snow, butmostly it's just depressing and pointless. "},{"Title":"About as dark as they come","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My criteria for how good a movie is is not the conventional formula of Did I like it?, but Do I respect it?. I don't think it's possible to like Affliction in this regard, but I can tell you I sure as hell respected it.One scene in particular made the film for me the bloody attempt at dentistry Nick Nolte performs upon himself. There was more power in his painfilled eyes, bleeding mouth, and watering eyes than in almost any scene that I've ever seen on film. I'll be rooting for to win on Oscar night, and this is coming from a HUGE Ed Norton fan.I will admit, however, that the voice-over narration by Willem Dafoe was downright bad. I love Dafoe; his character in Platoon is one of the most tragic I've ever experienced. But his character seemed to unnecessarily be included in the film as an observer of the downfall of his brother and nothing more. Such an observer was not needed, and his role did not lend anything more to the film.Nevertheless, a triumph on almost every level. Here's hoping this sort of character-driven story becomes more of the norm in the movie industry in the future.  "},{"Title":"Like watching a car wreck...","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Comparing this movie to Fargo is both unfair and stupid. I haven't read the Banks' novel but I can't imagine director Schrader even thinking about that. No, it's more like smug cafe latte types who can't stand watching something painfully real and moving who would make that comparison in the first place. And it is painful as hell to watch this movie. Nick Nolte's everyman character -- a man who is basically good, but still unable to save himself -- remains fascinating, though against the usual Hollywood-type protagonist which must have made the typical movie-snob audience nervous and unhappy to watch. Good. I'm glad. The acting is flawless. Schrader shows remarkable restraint in his direction, something you couldn't say about some of his recent works (Light Sleeper comes to mind). One would hope that Nolte, Coburn and Spacek will at least be nominated come Oscar time. This is the sort of movie that I cannot stop thinking about. Definitely one of the top two or three I've seen in '98. "}{"Title":"Gripping, melancholic, unforgettable portrait of ruined lives.","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Before I make any comments about this excellent film, I really should comment on some of the negative reviews other people have given it. In my view, it is a sad comment on the taste and intelligence of the movie-going public that this near masterpiece should have been greeted as boring, pointless, or even, in one especially gross instance, as , of all things, a turd.In my view, there are both aesthetic and sociological reasons for this lack of comprehension. First of all,the film is a character study..an analysis of two men, Wade Whitehouse and his father, and how they ruined each others lives. It is not a shot em up thriller. In addition, its not Pulp Fiction'..there are no spectacular camera flourishes, no dazzling contrivances. In addition, there is not a single special effect in sight. Instead, we get a restrained, compassionate study of some pretty sad human lives.That it also happens to be emotionally violent, tense, and, in places suspenseful, is a tribute to the acting and to the directing. Nick Nolte, James Coburn, Spacek, and Defoe are uniformly excellent, as are all the smaller performances. In addition, for all the lack of outward directorial showiness, Paul Schrader not only reminds that he is as close to Bresson as any American director is likely to get, he also reminds that he is , with John Sayles, the only one capable of sympathetic portraits of the working class. Of course, chastity, compassion,and restraint are NOT what a lot of movie-goers are looking for. Sadly, even fewer are looking for compassionate portraits of the working class. Despite the false image of National prosperity created by politicians of both parties and by big business, many Americans-especially blue collar Americans- live lives of quiet desperation .Sadly, Many Americans would rather retreat into the fantasy world of the Matrix than be reminded of the suffering of their brothers and sisters. In a weird way, the presence on the movies soundtrack of long forgotten country songs by Bonnie Guitar and Skeeter Davis underscored this. For all its faults, the best classic country music did portray the sufferings of the working class with wit, and tenderness... Shania Twain and Garth Brooks would never think of doing so, and sell Millions, while the Lacy J. Daltons and Merle Haggards are forgotten. Oddly, Affliction reminded me of a classic country song, filtered , in this case through the oddly compassionate Calvinist sensibility of Paul Schrader. Then again, Sissy Spacek did play a fairly well known country singer once!  "},{"Title":"An Execise In Misandry","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" With a cast headed by James Coburn, Nick Nolte, Willem Dafoe & Sissy Spacek, you might expect a tour-de-force in screen drama. Well; you'll be disappointed.This item was pulled from the bran-tub. Suspiciously, it came in one of those very thin plastic cases which usually betoken a crap movie, but for 1 it seemed worth a try. The case didn't deceive.Set in small town New Hampshire, USA, during the winter, we are treated to a dismal and rather confusing drama. Once more, the lighting crew appear to have gone on strike and even the interiors of buildings are places of unremitting gloom. The script may be 'realistic' but it is largely boring. Most of the dialogue is spoken in a hushed and hurried way that is frequently unintelligible. You strain to hear a clue that was never there, or a snippet of conversation that wasn't worth your attention. Nick Nolte's character has family problems. Yes; he's a dead-beat dad. Aren't they all? His own father (played by Coburn) was himself a violent man and - well; the abused eventually turns abuser.Partway through, a homicide bi-line appears in the form of a suspicious shooting. Is it an accident, or is it murder? It begins to look as though the movie will finally develop into something. 'A Perfect Plan' comes to mind, or even 'Fargo'. But not so. This issue just limps confusedly along with the dead-beat dad plot to no particular outcome whatsoever. It's also rather curious how many movies depict small-town America as cultural black-holes riven by disillusion, drink, and unhappiness. Can't humans ever be comfortable together? Just occasionally there are moments - all too brief - of tension, drama and tenderness, but for the very most part it's just a 109 minute dirge.The movie begins with a long-winded and convoluted intro narrated by Willem Dafoe (who plays Nolte's little brother) and ends in a similar way, but this time with a reproval of universal male domestic-violence that is as heavy-handed as it is plain wrong. It's a piece that might have been written by the most embittered, self-righteous feminist. And it absolutely stinks.The politically-correct with no discernment will love this crap. Those with a more balanced outlook will see it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte badly copes with his drunken and abusive dad","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Affliction (1998) is the story of a man, Nick Nolte, who disappears. We are told that right away at the beginning by his brother, Willem Dafoe, who narrates.The story is about why he disappears. This story is told slowly and with big detours that make it seem as if that's what the story is about, but they are not what the story's about. They apparently are meant to shed light on the central character, that of Nick Nolte. He's a cop in a small snowy town in New Hampshire (actually Quebec locations are used). His father, James Coburn, is an alcoholic. Coburn's part seems to keep repeating over and over the same thing, which is that his sons are not men. They do not put women in their place. Coburn's father was a real man, he tells us. Indeed, Nolte is little more than an errand boy for the big local businessman who is busy buying up property. The story seems to be about that for awhile. It's not.Nolte's pal Jack takes a man hunting and that man dies by gunshot. The story seems to be about that. It's not. Nolte has suspicions that the accident was murder. He fulminates and imagines, but the story never mentions any facts of any investigations. None at all. We are supposed to believe that Nolte's suspicions were made up out of thin air.Nolte has a hard time with his estranged wife and daughter. He even goes to a lawyer to try to change the custody arrangement. The story might be about that. It isn't.The story is about how Nolte carries on with respect to his wife, his dad, his job, his employer, his affair with Sissy Spacek, and the hunting accident. It's a character study of Nolte's character, who suffered from his father's trying to make him into a man.How is this story or characterization handled? Not very well. One minute Nolte seems rational. The next minute he does something really emotional. He does some things that are really very irrational or stupid. We are not shown anything that his father did that could have influenced his character's behavior in this way. Yes, he made his boys chop at some frozen wood. Is that it? No, of course not, but still the story doesn't hang together well.After awhile, we see that this is not a thriller, not a mystery or detective story, but a drama about a man with problems and no tools to cope with them. He won't listen to the one person he's closest to, which is Sissy Spacek; and he places too big a burden on her. He won't even go to get a tooth extracted when he has a toothache.The acting is more than adequate. The locations are fine. Paul Schrader's screenplay is where this picture runs into problems. Although the movie seems to have impressed voters and many IMDb reviewers, I was left with a very lukewarm feeling. I didn't believe the characters. I didn't believe Nolte as this weak man. I didn't believe the one-note Coburn character or even his long-suffering wife. Dafoe's part and narration added very little, except a paycheck. "},{"Title":"Disjointed Drama","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The sheriff of a frigid New Hampshire town investigates a shooting. The apple does not fall far from the tree. That is what the title refers to. Raised by an abusive father, a man turns out to be a lousy husband and father. The script is sloppy and disjointed, with too many secondary characters crammed in. It moves in fits and starts, but never really settles in and finishes with a whimper. Nolte has some good moments but too often seems to be sleepwalking, delivering his lines in a barely intelligible low growl. Spacek and Dafoe are fine, but neither gets much screen time. Coburn is interesting if a bit too cartoonish in his Oscar-winning role of the father from hell. "},{"Title":"One of my favors","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" AFFLICTION is really a marvelous movie, and Nick Nolte show a very dark side of himself, darker then he have shown in real life the last years, Oh yes - I remember him in HULK! But here he is something human, a person who cross the line. The plot dwell about the the past with his brother Rolfe - his violent and alcoholic father and their dead mother, and now grown up - Wade Whitehouse is nothing, meanwhile brother is teacher in a college. And right between stand Maggie Fogg, Wades girlfriend - and his friend Jack - an probable accident push them all away. They all stand in Wades way into the fire, and the whole thing triggers with Wades father Glen. James Coburn absolutely deserve his Oscar - but I think Nick Nolte should have one too - this is a great movie! Leonard "},{"Title":"Extraordinary Nick Nolte as a sheriff affected by demons of his past","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This bleak and depressive story deals a small-time sheriff named Wade Whithehouse(Nick Nolte, also producer) from an icy small-town. He's separated(Mary Beth Hughes, married to Paul Schrader) with a daughter(Tierney) and a girlfriend(Sissy Spacek). He's deranged from his childhood by his abusive drunk dad(James Coburn). When occurs a mysterious murder of a businessman(Sean McCann) during a hunting accident, he suspects his companion(Jim True) and Whitehouse thinks a dark conspiracy that is involved his chief(Osborne). Meanwhile his mother dies and his brother(Willem Dafoe) arrives for the funeral. But the investigation results to be the catalyst for his ending degradation and all goes wrong, including a teeth suffering.This cold and thought-provoking drama deals about desperation, madness and distress.Outstanding performances, particularly from Nick Nolte as damaged sheriff who looks for redemption during an investigation but gets worse, and James Coburn who won deservedly Oscar for best secondary actor. Downbeat musical score by Michael Brooks. Bleak cinematography by Paul Sarossy with a flashbacks during the childhood in a documentary style. Interesting script by Paul Schrader in the finest work of his career, he adapted it from Russell Banks' novel. Schrader is usually director and writer tales referred beaten-down men who fall into despair as their world crashes around them, such as 'Mishima a life in four chapters,Blue collar,Hardcore, Light sleeper, Autofocus and Affliction'. Rating  Good but is quite depressing. "},{"Title":"Slow and painful...","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film won an Oscar? Whaaaaaat? It was so slow and horrible that I would rather see paint dry (on a wall that I painted). At least then I would have accomplished something. I so would not waste my time on this exercise in agony. Thankfully, I didn't spend any money to watch it (my brother was watching on DVD). And I sat down because I was trying to avoid cleaning my room. Bring me the Pine Sol any day...it's a way better way to spend an hour. I swear there were parts where I just looked at the screen and wondered if anyone even bothered to edit it. What is wrong with people who hand out Oscars? No wonder there ratings are going down. You want to watch some good films that deserve Oscars Waltch Clueless, The Devil wears Prada...where are the Oscrs for them? Really makes you wonder. MY REVIEW RUN AWAY AND CLEAN YOUR ROOM "},{"Title":"incredibly disappointing","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I read the novel a couple weeks ago and thought it was a masterpiece, couldn't put it down. The character of Wade Whitehouse and how he progressed from childhood to his 40s was masterfully related. So I just got the movie on Netflix. Ugh. The movie is SO rushed, with almost no back story whatsoever, that there is no logic behind how anyone acts. Nothing about his youth and how his high school sweetheart and he supported each other through their family issues, nothing about the 2 older brothers who died in the war, totally sugar coated the violent father (one smack in one flashback!), cut major plot points altogether. Basically where everything flowed and you could understand how he got to a point and you felt bad for him in the book, the movie he just seems nutty.Read the book, it is a rewarding, haunting experience that will stay with you. The movie is good actors trying their best but it is a mere shell of the source material. "},{"Title":"Not For Every Taste","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I went to a video store and bought Affliction for $10. I bought it home and I watched it with my grandmother. My grandmother did not like it, nor did I that much. But there were some good elements The acting was tops. James Coburn completely deserved his Oscar, Nick Nolte also deserved the nomination. In fact, the whole cast was brilliant. But, they were all unlikeable characters. There was a well written screenplay, but what was the point of it? The world wasn't depressing enough? I did not like Affliction and I was surprised to see how many on this website did. So I file this title under Not For Every Taste.Affliction ** out of ****. Rated R for Extremely Depressing Subject Matter & Language. "},{"Title":"Miserable but fascinating","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A most depressing, soul-sapping film, noteworthy for the earth-shattering clash of two enormous screen presences. In wintry New Hampshire we follow Nolte as Wade, the local sheriff, whose wretched situation we're told by his brother in voice-over, given that Wade is too busy drinking or getting high. Wade has one or two smouldering camp fires of hope in the otherwise ubiquitous snowscape of his world - his girlfriend Margie and the impetus of re-establishing some kind of self-esteem by clearing up a shifty-looking accidental shooting incident.All hope is snuffed out the moment that James Coburn, as his father Glen, appears on screen. Key to the film is that Wade's mother is discovered to have died of hypothermia in the Whitehouse home - that Glen has neglected her sufficiently, as he has the rest of his family, for her snuff out. The film is a study in these metaphors, the extreme danger of the cold and fiery anger and the precious rarity of consistent inter-human warmth. Nolte and Coburn go at each other relentlessly throughout the film, barely ever physically, but in perpetual horns-lock of machismo breast-beating. It's a splendid spectacle but ultimately thoroughly dismal. 4/10 "}{"Title":"Mature but misguided","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A haunting though unbalanced character study/murder mystery benefits from the dreary, snow-drenched setting and an experienced cast dishing up some pretty harrowing scenes, although the final product does not articulate it's grim themes nearly enough. Instead, Dafoe's narration feels out of place, while Nolte's commanding lead performance leaves more of an appreciation for the man's inherent and effortless talent as opposed to the strength of his character outlined here. As an obviously foreshadowed downward spiral sets in for this character, even his corrupted mindset will not let the strenuous conclusion feel completely legit. Coburn turns in a great performance as well which is frightening, despicable, and mesmerizing at times, but does end up playing into the stereotype a bitter old drunk would entail a little too often to justify a pivotal character performance here.While the two different genres worked into this script do get ironed out accordingly in the end, throughout the proceedings it seems as if Paul Schrader suffered from this identity crisis himself. He tries to direct these split personalities with the subtle grace of objectivity but instead looses focus from each side, only regaining his thematic footing after Dafoe's forced final narrative. Short of the assured and nuanced work I was expecting, Affliction still sucker-punches with a few powerful moments of profound resonance while stumbling the rest. "},{"Title":"Drunken men abusing their families in a small town that is totally corrupt","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Drunken men abusing their families in a small town that is totally corrupt. I would say this is what is going on in every small town right now.This is just one story of them . Coburn is great . Even as an old man He towers over Nolte who is large in size and talent. Worth watching just for the great acting and cast but just a so so story and movie. "},{"Title":"Great acting&#133;and a better story than most critics state","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Schrader's 1997 `Affliction' features a top-flight cast that plays out the lives of a lot of people that society would rather not know about. Set in northern New Hampshire (although the film is actually filmed in Canada, the location shooting looks remarkably authentic to an area I am quite familiar with) `Affliction' traces the lives of the Whitehouse family. The word `family' does not really apply to this group except for the fact that they are related. There is no love or compassion, just a lot of detachment and alcoholism. Nick Nolte plays the lead role of the oldest son Wade, and as usual he delivers a convincing performance. Wade is a man with many demons that have been brought on by the nightmarish upbringing meted out to him by his alcoholic father Glen, frighteningly portrayed by Academy Award winner James Coburn (`Hell is for Heroes' `Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid'.) Sissy Spacek also plays wonderfully as Wade's girlfriend who wants to believe things can change. Spacek again does a wonderful job playing a norther New Englander in a tough situation (`In the Bedroom.') Willem Defoe plays Wade's brother Rolfe. Dafoe also serves as the narrator to the story and he is perhaps the one true survivor in this sad tale as he has become educated, does not drink and has escaped the nightmare of his past. The downside to this of course is that he generally avoids or denies his past, or at least distances himself. One could argue that this may the only way to move on from this hellish existence. Schrader has a knack for the story and angle in these tales of horrific commoners. Not unlike the material he worked with in `Taxi Driver,' `Blue Collar,' and `Hardcore' his work in `Affliction' shows us the dark side of many people's seemingly normal lives. The filming techniques used to show the flashbacks to the childhood of Rolfe and Wade is well done. Schrader uses a grainy and angular home-movie look that makes Coburn look even more menacing and the boys and their mother look more frightened. "},{"Title":"worth watching","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Affliction was a good movie. It was worth watching and the price of the rental. Nick Nolte, in one of his better roles, portrays Wade Whitehouse, a lonely policeman who has a rocky relationship with his young daughter and his girlfriend (Sissy Spacek). One day a man is murdered while deer hunting with his young friend and everyone suspects that it is the young man named Jack who killed him. Wade tries to get to the bottom of the murder but everyone around him gives him hell. And he keeps having flashbacks of his father abusing him and his brother. He goes and visits his father and finds out that his mother has frozen to death and that makes him even more distant from his friends. Wade is very hot-tempered and he kills his father during one of their fights and he burns his body. His girfriend leaves him and his daughter never wants to see him again. This was a very sad and dark film and I thought it was pretty good even though I haven't read the book. The ending was somewhat peculiar but all the actors did pretty good jobs. I sort of expected this to be an action flick but I wasn't disappointed. I would recommend this one to anyone who likes seeing great performances. But thanks for reading my review! Bye! "},{"Title":"A Tragic story","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The author, Russell Banks, must relish in personal agony and complicated estranged family relationships. Nick Nolte certainly deserved his Oscar nomination for the playing the tragic hero. His father played by James Coburn deserved his Academy Award for playing such a pathetic abusive alcoholic. Maybe many people who did not see this film but there is an audience who can relate to this tragedy. When James Coburn's character is first introduced to Wade's girlfriend played by Sissy Spacek, he is drunk and pitiful. He opens the doors and windows to die of hypothermia after his wife has been dead for days in the upstairs bedroom. Even though, he beat and abused her. He still loved her enough to want to die too. These stories are not common but very realistic.Depression, alcoholism, abuse, are all here in the dead of winter in upstate New York with snow. Banks must enjoy the snow's presence in both this film and The Sweet Hereafter. "},{"Title":"A Poor Man's Fargo","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction was quietly one of the more interesting films of 1998.  Nick Nolte (in an Oscar-nominated role) stars as a troubled constable in a small New Hampshire town.  His wife has just divorced him, he has a poor relationship with his young daughter, he is suffering from a major toothache, and the death of a prominent man is literally driving him crazy.  All of these afflictions can be attributed to an abusive father (James Coburn in his Oscar-winning role) who continues to make his life miserable.  However, as the film progresses we see just how similar Nolte and Coburn really are.  Fine performances and a top-notch screenplay make this film better than it probably looked before it was put to film.  Willem Dafoe and Sissy Spacek give top-flight turns even though their screen time is minimal.  4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Futility has never been so much Fun","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Covers a lot of the same wintry territory as A Simple Plan and The Sweet Hereafter, but this film lacks the layering and emotional force of those pictures. It's really just a grim, exceedingly ill-tempered public service announcement on the devastating lingering effects of child abuse.Although he hits a couple of false notes, Nick Nolte deserved his Oscar nod for digging deep and delivering an agonizingly authentic performance as a lifelong failure haunted by memories of an abusive upbringing. The same can not be said of James Coburn as the decrepit, still-abusive father. He's just two-dimensionally mean - he never finds the humanity that must be buried somewhere underneath all that hate.Most of the blame, however, goes to director Paul Schrader. He does a poor job of establishing who's who and what's what (one character's first name is Gordon and another's last name is Gordon, leading to all sorts of unnecessary confusion.) and by the time you think you've sorted everything out, it turns out not to matter! There is also a snide, simple-minded attack on those who find strength in religious faith. (Coburn has just had one of his explosions and his born again daughter feebly offers Dad, Jesus is more powerful than any demon. HA HA Funny stuff. As Ellen Barkin said to Kevin Bacon in Diner - Real mature, Fenwick, real mature.)The weak resolution is all superfluous voice over narration that is supposed to tie up all the plot threads, and essentially makes the happy argument that HEY! With some people, hopelessness is completely justified! The Sweet Hereafter was bleak territory as well, but it culminated in a sort of epiphany that Affliction never achieves.   "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is not bad, but this is not great. What's the idea of the snow, the little town ? Tryin' to do the same as the Coen brothers in Fargo?  Sometimes, the story of confusing, so is the characters of Nolte. The best part of the film is the acting.  Very good job by Nolte, Spasek, Dafoe and the great James Coburn. The finale is also great. You know what I hate the most in this movie? The anti smoker propaganda. Nolte is the only one who smokes and he's the bad guy. I saw that in another recent movie, The Confession, where Ben Kingsley shoots the only people who smokes cigarettes. I hate that kind of sybolism and PC propaganda! "},{"Title":"James Coburn is magnificent","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This sober and sad film was the best film I have seen this year. As Leonard Maltin stated bleak to the extreme and hard to watch, it is really beautiful and has great acting throughout. In a strange way, Wade gets his revenge in the end. But, I'm afraid, a lot of people are going to have a hard time connecting with this film. "},{"Title":"too slow","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although Nolte, Coburn and Spacek gave good performances, I found the story way too slow. Couldn't wait for something to happen. Plus, it seemed Nolte was mumbling most of the time and I had to turn the volume all the way up on the TV just to hear what he was saying!!! "}{"Title":"Should Have Been Called Toothache","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is about how a divorced man (Nick Nolte), fearful of his abusive father, falls apart inside and out....all because of a fierce toothache. The critics and the film makers will say that it was his father, a local murder, his vicious ex-wife, his foul-mouthed 10 year old daughter, his marijuana, and his fear that made him crack up but that's not true. It was a brutal toothache that existed in the upper right part of his mouth and the film tries to drag on with stupid subplots and hide the fact that it was his painful toothache that made him go off the edge. A toothache can do that to some people. But who can make a 2 hour movie about a toothache??? So Affliction adds 1 hour and 52 minutes off irrelevant nonsense to make a full-length film. It was the 8 minutes of tooth pain that was the most pleasing and relevant. Watch for the scene where Nick Nolte is arguing on the phone because he can't get an appointment at the dentist's office to fix his toothache, even after bribing a nurse and secretary $40 each...A Classic Scene. I admired his heroic action of personally dealing with the toothache by finding the painful tooth and ripping it out of his mouth with a pair of pliers, while thinking of how lousy his life has been. It's all the tooth! The tooth activity made the movie! "},{"Title":"Why _Weekend at Bernie's II_ was better than _Affliction_","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The summary of this review may seem odd to those who haven't seen this film. The reason for this is that you must see the film to understand how bad it is.  I recommend this movie simply for the value of being able to say (as a witty remark at a party), Oh, really?  So you think _Hurly Burly_ is the worst film you've ever seen? Well, have you ever seen _Affliction_?  I also recommend that you sit in the front row of the theater, so that every yuppie in the audience who is praising it as the best thing since _Forrest Gump_ can see you leave half way through.  When I saw it, unfortunately, I was in the middle of a crowded theater (god knows why it was crowded) so I was unable to walk out.  Instead I was only able to bang my head against the wall every time don't sas me gal, you done gone and done it, or some other putrid line of dialog was uttered.  This film had no real characters; every persona in the film is an exaggerated stereotype - a caricature - of a various members of what could constitute a northern redneck town.  The plot involves an insane undertaking and undergoing for one man; which at first seems a possibly great notion for a movie, and then is quickly lead into the land of absurdity.  One wonders why Willam Defoe took the role (one does not make such a speculation concerning Nick Nolte, for he as contributed nothing to American cinema); the voice-over he gives, especially during the denouement, is a pathetic attempt to analyze an obvious movie, and is insulting with its incorrect (and illogical) conclusions.  The climax of this film is not shown but rather contained within the objectable final narration; and the one saving feature of this film, the obnoxious daughter of Wade Whitehead, is not brought out enough.  Finally, as an explanation of my summary, upon leaving the theater, I remarked, This is the worst film I have ever seen in a theater, and I saw _Weekend at Bernie's II_ in a theater!  "},{"Title":"Copland meets A Simple Plan","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a slow, somewhat-gripping movie that combines the investigatory nature of Copland with the snow-covered landscapes and brother-to-brother story of A Simple Plan.  Besides Nick Nolte's bravura performance, and James Coburn's chilling turn as his father, there's not much here to recommend.  The movie is very very slow, and doesn't offer much at the conclusion to make it worth your while.  The book it's based on was written by the author of The Sweet Hereafter, but this film compares poorly to that one, mostly because The Sweet Hereafter, although slow and plodding as well, made you feel that you were discovering something new and important about the characters and their lives.  This film is for Nick Nolte fans only. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, typical of Schrader","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Schrader's talent is evident in Affliction. The story is quite deep and the acting by Nolte and Coburn is excellent. It great to see Nolte actually acting since I know him best from such movies as 48 Hours and Three Fugitives. Nolte (for Best Actor) and Coburn (for Best Supporting Actor) well deserve their Oscar nominations.  "},{"Title":"Anyone who writes a negative review didn't listen to the last two minutes.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Before going out to see this much-praised movie I thought I'd check out the IMDB comments. It gave me pause to see so many negatives. Uh-oh. Is this another flick that critics are afraid NOT to like?Wife and I went anyway. I kept looking at my watch throughout. I'm thinking this is waaaay overwritten. How could all these disasters happen to Nick Nolte in such a short time. This is silly, think I.Then we get to last two minutes, when Willem Dafoe tells us what we just saw. In the first 30 seconds my wife and I agreed the words were chilling. In the next 90 seconds we realized the movie was brilliant.Any negative critiques you see in IMDB were written by nattering nabobs of negativism who just didn't understand Dafoe's words OR they must have left early.See the movie. Listen to the words. It's goosepimply clever. "},{"Title":"Dreary Character Study Lit Up by Nolte","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Affliction only has three reasons to see it, unless you like to watch snow fall. Nick Nolte's performance is terrific as a man struggling against, and losing, to give in to his violent heritage. Coburn is fairly one-note but it's good to see him back.It is worth seeing if you're a fan of Paul Schrader, who adapted the screenplay and directed, as so many of his movies are about violence and this seems to be his effort to understand where it comes from and what effort it takes to resist that.Too much of the plot is explicated in a voice-over narration of things that should have been visualized and in some cases are quite fine.Otherwise, it's a really dreary movie and they mumble a lot. (originally written 3/14/99) "},{"Title":"Terrific character study","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed, actually 'appreciated' is a better term, all aspects of this film. First of all, the sombre mood of an unevolving dead-end snowy smalltown North American community was depicted very effectively in the film. In concert with this, the subject matter of abuse and unfulfilled ambition made for compelling viewing. Thankfully, a talented all-star cast could be assembled to bring these suffering personages to life. James Coburn truly deserved his Oscar for his work here, as both he and Nolte powerfully convey the struggle we all have with our inner demons. Sissy Spacek and Willem Dafoe, in roles smaller than usual for them, are perfect as complementary characters. Overall, a very intense film, 9/10. "},{"Title":"Top Notch Acting, Direction and Film work","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a superb example of the dying art once know as Film. The story alone is worth accolades. Coupled with that ample groundwork, this picture is a non-stop, pulse racing, gritty look at the cycle of abuse and the madness it fosters. Nick Nolte is so real you are certain this is not a film but a story of his personal life. We are voyeurs watching the home movies of the Whiteside family. James Coburn is larger than life. It's as though he will leap off the screen and slap you square on the jaw. Sissy Spacek's role is small but pivotal. Jim True and Willem Dafoe are sufficient as well. There isn't a bad performance in this film. Highly recommended if you appreciate art. *****  "},{"Title":"One of 1997's best films.","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I disagree with most of the posted reviews, so I felt compelled to write my own. In MY opinion this was one of the best films of 1997, and certainly one of the best Paul Schrader has ever produced, which is saying a lot considering he also conceived Raging Bull, Taxi Driver and the Last Temptation of Christ. Nick Nolte is one of my favourite actors working today, and he's in top form, delivering one of his best performances. Sissy Spacek, of course, is great, and James Cobourn is truly staggering. His performance is amazingly multi-dimensional, and he manages to convey a corporeal frailty in his withered body, and brutal ferocity in his soul. The direction, as one would expect from Schrader, is wonderful, and the quiet, snowy, and textured cinematography sets the perfect tone - one which is methodical, introspective, realistic, and profoundly sad. One previous reviewer criticized the film for having unlikable characters that you would rather not watch, which is precisely the point! It can't be considered voyeuristic when the ultimate purpose is to learn from what you're watching, and not to derive sadistic pleasure from others misfortunes, or as an act of cinematic masochism. This is a film about the hereditary nature of violence, and the trajectories that we share with those who raise and shape us as individuals.As described in the final narration, the cycle of violence, from father to son, is an ancient and brutal one. For those millions of young men afflicted with that circumstance, I think that this story would seem all too familiar. In the end I think it's a tragic cautionary tale, though not an entirely pessimistic one. In one of the final shots, in which Nick Nolte is framed against a burning building, Willem Dafoe gives his final narration and we see both potentialities how a life can be pre-determined though circumstance and ultimately consumed by it, but also how one can choose the more arduous path and step out of that cycle (provided that they can find a way before it's too late). My criticisms, which I would be remiss to acknowledge, are insignificant to the point of irrelevance. A terrific 10 out of 10 film.  "},{"Title":"*Spoiler Alert* Not a bad movie, a horribly disturbing movie","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think bad is a good word to describe this film. Bad only implies the film was not enjoyable to watch. Watching this film made me want to vomit. Paul Schrader seemed to think Hey! I've got an idea! Lets adapt this horrible book about a guy who's about to get his life on track and then has it disturbingly ruined into a movie! The movie is so disturbing that by the end I wanted to scream. The script was slow and annoying. It wasn't so much that I thought it was a poorly written screenplay as that the subject material was so incredibly disturbing that I can't believe anyone could enjoy watching this film.Even down to the cinematography, I felt like I was being claustrophobically suffocated by this movie. Okay, on my SINGLE compliment to the film, Nolte is good and Coburn is great.BUT ITS HORRIBLE TO WATCH. NEVER RENT THIS FOR FUN! IT MAKES YOU WANT TO LOSE EVERY MEAL IN THE PREVIOUS 78 HRS!*remember, SPOILERS* The little girl's character is so annoying that I much more wanted Wade to kill her than Coburn. At least Glen was kinda funnY. I suppose this was supposed to be some sort of cautionary tale about violence, but its just screwed up. Rolfe, the brother who let his mother and brother get beaten and just sorta stayed at the sidelines away from abuse, is the one that somehow turns out okay. He has no guilt. He's very annoying. Not to mention, of course, that his encouragement is basically what drives Wade to madness.Basically, Wade's life is turning out JUST FINE, but a series of horrible events drive him insane and into a wife-beater. GOD WHY DIDN'T HE KILL THE DAUGHTER. The opening narration that speaks of how Wade was driven to criminal behavior initially seemed like it didnt fit, b/c Wade seemed just fine in the beginning. But then the evil writer of the novel (what's his name?) decided to throw in enough stuff to drive him insane.THINK Fargo gone SUPER DISTURBING.Acting **** out of **** Screenplay (just how it was written, not the actual material) *** Story material *DON'T EVER RENT THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is really good.  Nick Nolte is a guy who is on the edge. He is really starting to lose it.  James Coburn gives a powerful performance as Wade's (Nolte) father who was abusive in the past. Willem Dafoe plays Wade's brother and Sissy Spacek is Wade's girlfriend. Divorced and not liked much by his daughter, Wade does a lot of drinking and has quite a temper.  He seems to be taking after his father in many ways.  A murder takes place and Wade gets involved in this and takes Rolfe's (Dafoe) advice and looks into the matter with a different perspective.  Wade's father comes to live with him and Spacek which drives him insane.  Nolte's performance is terrific and very intense.  The scene where the family is gathered to mourn the loss of Mrs. Whitehouse was great.  Coburn interrupts the prayers from the Jesus freaks and insults everyone there.  Wade finally stands up to him.  Wade and Rolfe's conversation in the garage was memorable and it shows the bond between the two.  Dafoe's role is limited although he narrates the story.  Wade and his father have some funny moments like the part where they are arguing in the car and Coburn spits in Nolte's face and Sissy has to be the peace mediator.  Her character tries so hard to be compassionate, but, soon enough, she can't take anymore. Wade obsesses over the conspiracy he thinks is going on between co-worker Jack, his boss Gordon and the son-in-law to the murdered man. The part where he throws his boss' desk over and gets in the face of some of his co-workers was great.  Nolte, in this film, reminds me of Harvey Keitel in Bad Lieutenant and Jack Nicholson in The Pledge. He is a man on the edge and he is about to lose it.  With flashbacks of the abuse his father forced on he and his family, the divorce and custody of his daughter, he knows things can't go on like this.  Coburn has great dialogue in this film.  He was hilarious and intimidating in this one like Dwight Yoakam in Sling Blade.  Nolte knows the scars won't heal and decides he has to take action into his own hands.  Was hoping for a violent shoot out at the end, but that didn't happen.  The ending is interesting though and the actors here are all fantastic. "},{"Title":"Bleak, Disturbing, Excellent","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The affliction in Affliction is madness. The protagonist, Wade Whitehouse, is the cop for a small New Hampshire town. Brilliantly portrayed by Nick Nolte, Wade has troubles with his young daughter, his alcoholic father, his ex-wife, his employers, and just about everybody. The movie takes place in early winter (the opening scene is Halloween night), and the landscape is bleak and dark. So is Wade's mind as he sees conspiracies and enemies everywhere. This movie is excellently made; the screenwriting and acting are exceptional. The story is not for everyone though. It is dark, claustrophobic and unsettling. If this is not a barrier, I highly recommend Affliction. Nolte and Coburn show what good acting is all about. "},{"Title":"Weak, Bleak Film","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised at the unadulterated praise this film received.  While it was an accurate and sometimes gripping portrayal of man destroyed by a fearsome upbringing, aspects of the film like the blank, detached voiceover and very bookish dialogue destroyed the effect and impact of the story.  It was very dark but unlike other films in the confessional/tell-all drama this film failed to illicit sympathy for the protagonist caught in the grip of his demons. Nick Nolte's character was unpleasant and pathetic from start to finish.  In fact most of the characters were, lacking even the charm and vitality of real life much less what viewers expect of the big screen.The mysterious appearance and later disappearance of the younger brother was distracting as well.  When the film ended I was relieved albeit horrified.  A good idea, a less than perfect execution.   "},{"Title":"Tough and powerful drama","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Schrader's uncompromising drama about one man's descent into madness, Affliction is a film on par with the more celebrated Russell Banks adaptation The Sweet Hereafter. In many ways it might be better - the performances by Nick Nolte and James Coburn are so phenomenal that they might push this film slightly above Atom Egoyan's film in my mind. The only problem with this film might be the flashbacks, which don't quite work as well as they should. But aside from that, I think this is a wonderful film. Nick Nolte should have won the Oscar for so fully embodying a man driven to the edge by alcohol, his family, and his own inability to control his anger and paranoia. James Coburn deserved the Oscar he won for his terrifying portrayal of a cruel and abusive man, and watching him we understand why Schrader said he needed an actor who could convincingly terrify a character played by Nick Nolte. Check this film out. "},{"Title":"Shakespearean in its snow-bound wasteland","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film should be on everyone's 'must see' list.  A meditative, brooding film which relies on how much is not seen or said with some truly breathtaking scenery as its backdrop.  A small town with dark undercurrents is the setting and the characters are hurting, metaphorically bleeding, on the inside from the mistakes of the past.  James Coburn is pure malice with his comments on women knowing their place while he terrorises his sons and their mother.  Most of the violence is implied and the snow which blankets the town is a fitting symbol for the cold, sterile feelings which pass for affection.  'Affliction' is an apt title - these characters are not affected by the pain but afflicted with it as Willem Dafoe's character says at one point.  Nick Nolte is good, very good - showing a range and subtlety, working with the other actors to create a moody ensemble piece which has one thinking long after one has left the theatre.  A lot of this film takes place in the mind, echoing intrusive thoughts which drive a man to his ultimate tragedy.  This has Shakespearean undertones - the chaos of the natural world, the sins of the past rearing up to claim those in the present and the sheer waste of love and tolerance on recrimination and cruelty.  A fine cast - Sissy Spacek, Mary Beth Hurt, Jim True all help to make this movie memorable.  The film, however belongs to James Coburn, Nick Nolte and the impeccable direction of Paul Schrader.  Part thriller, part psychological study - this is a great film and worth a second and a third look. "},{"Title":"A brilliant and deeply moving film about alcoholism","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that Affliction was the best movie I have ever seen  that addressed the problem of alcoholism.  The screenplay is  superb  you see how alcohol pickles the brain of Glen  Whitehouse, and how this affects each member of his family  his  wife, the abused saint, his daughter who becomes a born again christian, his son Rolfe who is a detached historian with no  memory of the physical abuse that happend to him as a child, and  poor, tragic Wade who is himself an addict.  A pathetic man who wants to be a good father, husband, lover, son, friend but who  is a paranoid delusional dysfunctional alcholic.  The brilliant  thing about the film is the way it puts you into the psyche of  the paranoid delusional alchholic, Wade. The supporting actors are perfect  I loved them all, particularly Holmes Osborne who played Gordon LaRiviere with a  fabulous French Canadian? accent, and of course James Coburn as  the hateful father, Glen Whitehouse.  What a great movie!! "},{"Title":"Seamless script, subtle direction, inspired performances","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Schrader brings Russell Banks' dark vision to life with his seamless script and subtle direction.  Nick Nolte is marvelous, making a dangerous, deranged man completely understandable and--yes--likable.  James Coburn gives a chilling performance as an abusive, vicious old drunk, and Holmes Osborne stands out in the role of La Riviere.  Willem Dafoe's character is perhaps the most interesting of all.  He is the narrator, but not a trustworthy one.  He bears a great responsibility for the tragedy, but is so cold and detached that he never realizes what he has done.   This is the final affliction. "},{"Title":"I'll pass on this one","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My wife may never forgive me for taking her to this movie. I was really disappointed too. I do like Nick Nolte and James Coburn gave an impressive performance as well, but this is the second Fargo/snowy/murder snoozer I've been through this winter, the other being A Simple Plan. I didn't have any strong feelings of empathy or sympathy for any of the characters. The only thing I felt was confusion over the murder/accident plot.Oh well. I do think Nolte and Sissy Spacek and Devoe and Coburn are as good a group as you are gonna get, I just didn't like the film. Maybe basing the plot on a hallucinating, pained, misfit who never finds his way out wasn't such a good idea. Maybe it was just too much ugliness.  "},{"Title":"An intense psychological portrait of a man who can't escape his history.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  About 30 seconds into this fine film, you know that Wade is troubled. Sure, the music is ominous, but the dialogue and situation tells you that this is one tense fellow. As the picture develops, you learn something of his history, and how hard it is (for him - for us?) to escape that history.The photography is amazing. The acting - especially Nick Nolte and James Coburn - is superb. The story unfolds and the viewer sees what's happening - or it merely Wade's (Nolte's) version?A dark, psychologically interesting, and gripping film.  "},{"Title":"What it is to be a man","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Based on a novel by Russell Banks who also wrote The Sweet Hereafter, and directed by Paul Schrader of Raging Bull and The Mosquito Coast fame, the winter landscape and cold bleakness of the town sets the tone for this exploration of the dark legacy of what it is to be a man.Nick Nolte stars in this dark story of the lone policeman in a small New Hampshire town investigating a hunting accident. He is divorced and trying and to get custody of his young daughter who rejects his fumbling efforts to be nice to her.  James Coburn is excellent as Nick Nolte's father, a brutal and angry old man who typifies a sick machismo which has in turn afflicted his son. His acting is extraordinary as is Nolte's although their styles are different. Noltle is subtle; his facial expressions are controlled and typical of a man who has learned to hold in emotion.  Coburn's face, on the other hand, is more deeply expressive;  his eyebrows move, his mouth hardens, his eyes glare.This is the kind of dark, brooding movie that I like.  For a brief few hours I enter its world and get completely absorbed in the characters in the way I did with A thousand Acres or The Horse Whisperers.  Like these films, there are no easy answers and the conclusion does not wrap up in a neat little Hollywood package that is soon forgotten. Recommended. "}{"Title":"Great performances, even greater screenplay.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction boasts sterling set of performances from Nolte, Spacek, and of course, the utterly terrifying James Coburn. But Paul Schrader's screenplay and direction are also very strong elements. The screenplay is particularly notable for creating vivid characters and a strong storyline, which has been hard to find in Hollywood for years and is increasingly scarce in the indie world, as well.   "},{"Title":"One Hell of a Bad Flick","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have to say that this is probably the worst flick I have seen Nick Nolte in. I am a big fan of his and of Jim Coburn too but neither deserve this, nor do the viewers. When you take away the abusive background to Nolte's character there is nothing left but a bleak snowy landscape populated by seemingly empty people. I simply could not get into this film at any level, the characters were either dull or leaden. As for a plot, there was a faint attempt at working in a possible murder motive but honestly I for one just couldn't be bothered if someone had been murdered! The whole thing was so slow and seemingly pointless.And the part played by Wilem Dafoe seemed to be totally unnecessary. Give it a miss, or be prepared for a big disappointment. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Bombastic, and I do mean bomb.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I grew up in a family with an alcoholic parent, and that is the reason why I saw this film. As bad as some of my memories are, this film did nothing for me. It was so poorly directed and slow that any value or impact the story had was watered down. Awards aside, including many nominations, this, as art, was a waste. I think Nick Nolte is a fine method actor. His constant muttering and mumbling made this all the more unbearable. Twitching in my seat to finally get closure, most of the actions portrayed on-screen were going nowhere. James Coburn did an okay job as an abusive drunk, but he, much like the rest of the cast was never allowed to fully bloom in to a character. Painful as it was to watch it wasn't because of the social content as much as the lack of artistic content. "},{"Title":"Affliction boredom","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoon-fed entertainment for the art house/Academy voters.  An unengaging character study that is nothing but an excuse for horribly broad acting; a cycle of abuse theme that's laughable in its naked obviousness; a conspiracy storyline that is as pointless as it is uninteresting; sloppy, logy direction, utterly lacking in artistry or intelligence.  Overall, an exercise in bloated enervation.  If you want to see a real crackerjack film by Paul Schrader, do yourself a favor and rent Blue Collar.  "},{"Title":"Yes, It's a car wreck, but not in a good way.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, I'm usually with the mainstream when it comes to cheering independent film, especially when it defies Hollywood's so-called Wisdom, But this movie fails in too many ways too earn such praise. It is no match for The Sweet Hereafter or Fargo. With clunky writing and dialog, that often slaps one with it's ineptitude, the plot spins it's wheels, obviously caught in deep snow. The supporting characters are comedic in the worst way, and nothing Nolte or Coburn can do will dig them out of the drift. All the beauty of Sarossy's pictures is a moot point if you are looking around the theater wondering if anyone else smells the stink.   "},{"Title":"Slow and Predictable","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After reading other viewers comments and noting the ranking, I was inspired to rent this one. I was terribly disappointed. I believed it to be very slow paced and predictable. Sure it had a message - particularly to those parents initiating or perpetrating violent abuse on their children, as well as the victims of such abuse, but somehow the story didn't meld together for me. It just didn't seem to have the oommphh that this kind of movie needed. Perhaps better , scripting,directing, filming and production would have enhanced a pretty credible performance by the actors and a fine casting. A two for me. "},{"Title":"An odious affliction to those that watch this garbage","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really don't understand films like this.  I don't understand how a film as bad as this can be made.  Where does the praise come from?  Is it because James Coburn came back one more time to play a drunken alcoholic one more time?  Is it because Nick Nolte plays a character that he could play in his sleep?  Or is it because it is written by Paul Schraeder?  Whatever the reason it is not sufficient enough to make it good.  It is not sufficient enough to make it even tolerable.  This is not entertainment, this is not even good film making.  This is as close to torture in film as it comes, unless you include Magnolia and then Affliction is the best film ever made.  But excluding Magnolia and what you have is a slow moving, ABC after-school special plot, well casted mistake that really never should have been made.  To make a film you have to have lots and lots of money.  And even though this film is obviously a low budget film you still have to wonder who this film was made for?  What was it's target audience?  Who wants to see a film about an alcoholic father that lives in a small town that is broke and used to beat his kids?  That does not sound like a great film idea to me.  But then you put Nolte and Coburn and Dafoe and Spacek in it and all of a sudden people will want to see it?  Give me a break.  This once again is Hollywood trying to pull the wool over our eyes.  There is nothing redeeming about the film.  Sure the performances are good but so what, that is expected.  There are some pretty good actors involved here, I would hope that the performances are good.  But what else is going to keep people coming in?  Nothing.Affliction is torturous.  That is the best way I can describe it.  It is slow and unintersting and really quite boring.  There is only so much you can do with alcoholism.  But the one thing that I did get from the film is that if you don't have money, life sucks.  That's what Nolte's character shows us.  He was broke and now his life sucks because of it.  Hows that for a curveball.  That is the only point I got from the film.  Life sucks without money.  As for the rest of the film, it isn't even worth seeing.  The only reason I did is because I heard that Nolte and Coburn would be nominated for Oscars and I had to check out the apparent Oscar caliber performances.  And I am glad that Benigni won for Life Is Beautiful.  Maybe Nolte will start to pick roles in films that people actually want to see.2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Well titled - this movie was an affliction!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst I've ever seen.  It ranks down with Hotel New Hampshire and Hot Spot as one of the few I've awarded a score of one on a scale of one to ten.There were no good guys in the movie.  Nor was there a plot.  Nick Nolte simply ran around doing inane things which had no point, driving away both his daughter and his girlfriend in the end.Making movies about such drivel as this is a disservice to the public.  Nolte's father was a sorry human being.  So what.  He needed to get over it and get a life.  Glorifying or excusing his behavior just because he had a sorry father is not a worthwhile objective for the entertainment industry to pursue. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking, well-acted, but deeply troubling and ultimately unsatisfying...","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An assuredly downbeat, intentionally unpleasant story, adapted by director Paul Schrader from Russell Banks' book, about a divorced, desperate middle-aged man in a snowy small town who is unable to come to terms with his volatile past. James Coburn and Nick Nolte are gripping as father and son, with Coburn winning a Supporting Oscar for his superbly gritty and totally unsympathetic turn; yet, even as the film strikes truthful notes, it lays possibly too much grim material on us. The father is not only abusive and an alcoholic, but something of a psychotic (Schrader treats the three as if they are naturally linked). A sub-plot about a shooting never quite connects with the central situation, and Sissy Spacek isn't given much to do as a long-time acquaintance. Strictly viewed as a showcase for the two actors, worthwhile; but as a movie-going experience, the frozen waste of the land and the uncommunicative relationships left me chilled and unsatisfied. ** from **** "},{"Title":"overrated, but some good performances","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to see Affliction the other night, I had read all sorts of reviews that had said that it was such an amazing movie, and so on.  They were giving it four and even five star ratings.  Needless to say, I walked out of the theatre somewhat disappointed. Nick Nolte and James Coburn both turned in some incredible performances, which proved to be the highlight of the movie.  Otherwise, there were some poor performances by Jim True and an annoying little girl.  One scene, in which Wade's daughter tries to attack him, was laughable. Performances aside, I thought there was a SEVERE lack of subtlety.    Oh yeah, and about the hunting accident subplot.  What happened to it?  It was introduced, and then it was never properly resolved (resolving it by mentioning it in the voice-over doesn't count). Affliction gets two stars out of five. "}{"Title":"overrated","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sitting through this movie was like watching a dog being put to sleep. Bleak, hopeless and filled with preachy moralizing delivered by Willem Dafoe whose performance makes David Duchovny seem animated.   I do not fault Nolte's performance but the supporting roles were not fleshed out.  James Coburn's role seemed to me one dimensional, ugly rage and nothing else. This movie to me seems like Stephen King, minus the demons and tawdry special effects, replaced by a liberal dose of existential nausea. "},{"Title":"Drop the narration.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction tries to be true to the novel of the same name by using the character of a younger brother to narrate and act as a moral anchor. However, narration in a novel doesn't always translate into an effective device in a film.  In Affliction the narration is a distraction.  The movie-goer doesn't need to be hit over the head with the narrator's commentary on Wade's behavior and the reasons for it.  Any film which relies on narration to get its message across ultimately fails as quality art because film is first and foremost a visual medium.   "},{"Title":"What is the opposite of a chick flick?","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is the opposite of a chick flick - call it a d*** flick.  Male violence, destruction, disconnectedness, and deer hunting!  The supposed great performances of Nolte and Coburn do not atone for this boring display of testosterone angst. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte's amazing performance!!!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction is a good movie, but the main reason why every movie lover should see it is Nick Nolte's wonderful, incredible, performance. His Wade Whitehouse is ALIVE and you can't stop thinking about this character when you leave the theatre. It is an amazing one man show!!! "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of the people who liked this film try to intimidate people into agreeing with them by snobbery.  If you don't recognise this movie is great art, you must be a low-class ignoramus who'd be happier seeing Plunkett and Macleane.  Well, I've seen great art, and this is twaddle.Affliction uses all the appurtenances of Deep Thought, but I've never walked out of an art film feeling less touched or intellectually engaged, except for trying to find words to explain how disappointing it is.  This movie has great performances, a faultlessly oppressive atmosphere, and for what?  To explain that abusive parents mess their kids up, and machismo is a Bad Thing.  Thanks Schrader, I'd never have guessed.  It stumbles towards an ending that tries for epic and falls flat on its face, then wraps it all up for us like a psychology lecturer talking to an audience he suspects is uneducated.Nolte and Colburn give fine performances, but in a ground-out manner that exhausts the viewer.  The film is like watching rhinoceri fight to the death in slow motion.  I might have felt more if we'd seen some hints of a happier time for the protagonist, but this guy started out screwed up and got worse, leaving me feeling like a voyeur watching a predictable disaster.  Why Spacek's wonderful short-order cook got involved with him I'd never understand.Overall, I'd say that when Wade snarled at his father I wish you'd just die I hoped he would, and take the movie with him. "},{"Title":"The inevitable does not make for good drama","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Affliction's only saving grace is its performances, by Nick Nolte, Sissy Spacek, James Coburn, and Brigit Tierney.  However Willem Dafoe's wooden voice-over narration, Paul Schrader's poor direction, and the story's inevitability stunt the film's dramatic force.  The narration at the very beginning tells us what will happen, but even if it did not, we would know, such is the pervasive inevitability of the story.  So we are dragged on masochistically for 2 hours watching a man's life fall apart knowing nothing can prevent it.  Then the shockingly bad narration at the end gives us the unenlightening message that fathers should not beat their sons. "},{"Title":"untrammelled boredom...","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this film I had a severe affliction of boredom spreading over me like poison ivy. This was such a tedious film with a limp message, supposedly about 'masculine' brutality. Nolte's character was a worthless and unsympathetic loser and how James Coburn won an oscar for this dross defeats me! Coburn didn't even play a decent corpse as he was twitching throughout the scene.This film also deceives the audience as we are told by Dafoe's narration that the lead characters suspicions were all in his head. So the whole narrative revolved around an idiot's delusions and was used by the director to make some touchy feely point about 'machismo'. Only a drip would find this film worthwhile! Long live people with balls!! "},{"Title":"A Bow Wow with Big Names","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Agree with those that pan Afflicted. Would wager if the cast were not so top drawer,many audiences would admit that the movie was slow, uninteresting, and a sad excuse for a psychological thriller as many of the film's devotees regard it. Nolte struck me as unstable from the first minutes and certainly so in the last scenes. Didn't detect the supposed deterioration in his psyche and sanity that presumably took place. Highly, highly, overrated. "},{"Title":"This was one of those movies where I left the theater wanting my money back.  Rating 4.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard almost nothing about this movie except that the acting was superb and that Nick Nolte is a policeman investigating a hunting accident in a small town. I love police and investigation movies and so I decided to go.  The movie starts out great with Nick Nolte investigating the accident but as the movie goes on the investigation becomes less and less important in the plot.  The movie becomes a contest between Nick Nolte's character and his father (played brilliantly by the great James Coburn) as to who has the more pathetic life.  The movie just kind of let's the investigation part of the plot drop without any resolution.   It is a horrible movie totally undeserving of all the praise and Oscar nominations it's been getting.  The only redeeming thing about this movie is the performance of James Coburn as the alcoholic father.  I'm glad he got an Oscar nomination because he deserves it.  Nick Nolte does not.  His acting in this movie is nothing special.  This was one of those movies where I left the theater wanting my money back.  Rating 4.   "},{"Title":"Sleaze in the Snow","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A bleak dreary movie about the bleak dreary people inhabiting a bleak dreary town.  Wade, the main character, the corrupt and undisciplined town janitor/gopher/cop, is played by Nick Nolte exactly as almost every other character Nolte ever tackled.  Nolte sees to it that the viewer has not one whit of affection or sympathy for Wade, the perpetual incompetent loser.Does Coburn deserve an Oscar?  Perhaps, but not for this piece of trash.  His wooden portrayal of the abusive drunken father is surely not his best work.Dafoe, as the enigmatic younger brother (and coldly analytical but simple-minded narrator) is entirely wasted.Only Spacek emerges unscathed from this waste of celluloid. This movie is so depressing and unnecessary; it even makes the freshly fallen white snow seem soiled and sleazy.Two thumbs way, way down!  "}{"Title":"Just horrible!!!!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie ever made.  I have seen a lot of bad films but this is the worst. It's about a small town officer (Nick Nolte) that tries to solve a case about an accidental shooting on a haunting trip.  He's a horrible father to his daughter because his dad beat the crap out of him when he was growing up.  Horrible story.  Not a slight bit interesting.  It won an academy award for best supporting actor and was nominated for best actor. I don't understand the academy! You can't trust them on what's a good movie anymore.  I wish I could vote a negative number for this movie and I wish I had the hour and half of my life back.  Don't rent it, don't buy it, don't waste your life on this. "},{"Title":"Not worth watching!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Have seen the film via VHS and have to say I disliked it very much.  The story line, characters and much of the acting were unbearable to view.  I did like the little Sissy Spacek had to do and that's about it.  Couldn't bear to listen to Nolte scream one more time.  It got tiresome.  Overacted too much.  Where was any compassion in his role?  Also Coburn, to me, was unworthy of an Oscar for his work.  Boring and predictable.  I guess they felt he'd been around a long time and when would he get another shot at the award.  But his acting was awful.  I can't believe this film got such accolades.  Must be my taste.  I want and expect to see good acting, good scripts and good direction in the films I watch.  This one had none.  Glad I didn't pay to go to a regular movie house to see it and put out $10.  I'd have asked for my money back.  I've been told some people have found deep meaning in the picture.  I wish someone would tell me just what that was.  My advice?  Stay home and watch Saturday Night Live.  Much better acting and lots of fun. "},{"Title":"Do you know how to drive stick? Me neither....","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My finger ought to have been hovering over the eject button as soon as Willem Dafoe's opening voice-over droned on about my older brother's strange criminal behaviour and disappearance. We who loved him no longer speak of Wade. Good grief, did anyone proof-read Schrader's script? How about his direction? I can only imagine what inspired his weediness here Um, Nick, could I get you to speak up? The sound guy has an issue. Okay, now you're yelling and that just doesn't play. Fine. You direct! After all, Nolte did help bake the cookies for the production jar.So, then, this is really a self-indulgent little number. One, I can only guess, Paul Schrader didn't care too much about (I'll give it to the chain-smoking old coot. He's smellin' Oscar blood). Otherwise, there truly isn't order in the universe if one day you write Taxi Driver and Raging Bull and the next, Affliction.Maybe, just maybe, the problem stems from Russell Bank's novel? But I'll claim ignorance here. The very notion of reliving this story in its original form for verification purposes creates its own affliction. "},{"Title":"the snow falls slow...","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  cold as in fargo but boring and absolutley predictable some nice acting, but overall it doesnt make no sense. the score is really lousy because it fails to makes some atmosphere at all. the movie was german titled der gejagte, which means the hunted, what finally has nothing in common with that kind of film.i personally do like slow movies a lot, but not when they are simply boring...gives to me a below 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"x10 million","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was as bad as every review on this web site said it was x 10 million. I even like Nick Nolte in most roles. His weakness is way over acting. And boy o boy does his weakness  get exploited something awful. Pop is really the only dim spot in the movie. If you pick up this movie at the video store, set it on fire or hide it behind a cardboard cutout.  "},{"Title":"How to film Russell Banks badly","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Banks wrote the novel The Sweet Hereafter, which Atom Egoyan transformed into one of the most amazing films I've ever seen, winning the #1 spot on my Top Ten Films of 1997, ahead of other brilliant works such as L.A. Confidential and Chasing Amy.Hearing of a new Banks adaptation, I drove across two states, searched for the theatre for over an hour and a half, desperately trying to make sense of the mangled metropolitan zoning nightmare that is, in essence, downtown Cambridge, Mass.  After getting my ticket, I stood in the crowd of ticket-holders marked We're Seeing it Because It's Another Russell Banks Adaptation, and discussed my anticipation with the frozen Cambridge denizens, most of whom, at any other time, I wouldn't spit on if they caught fire.A little under two hours later, I was horrified at my own disappointment.The performers are no less than stunning; Nolte, Spacek, and Coburn all deserved and received rave notices.  Added to this, I appreciated the feeling of faith in Paul Schrader, as director and screenwriter, that Great Cinema was being done.  Most bad films, you can tell when the actors know what they've got themselves into, either in interviews, or in the film itself.  Here, everyone is operating under a well-constructed delusion of Great Cinema, including Schrader.  He nearly had me fooled, too.What went wrong with Affliction?  All the elements seem to be in place, but something seems lacking in each.  The Schrader character gallery is littered with dislikable leads, and some demographics are programmed to believe that, if they hate the film's characters, they must be watching great art.  The reality is, a film must be great first.  Unpleasantness is only an attribute, and despicable people does not a great story make.The test I've devised for long films about abominable people doing abominable things is this  if you saw these people from a distance of a hundred or so feet, doing these horrible things to each other, and your only choices were to  A) stand and watch voyeuristically, or  B) run away as fast as you could, what would you do?  For Raging Bull, I could watch the proceedings for hours.  With Affliction, I'm out of there, in a hurry.  I would have absolutely no desire to witness any more shenanigans, and I would care less whether the people lived or died.At the end, Affliction had the opportunity to end gracefully, with just the shot of Nick Nolte -- sitting and drinking, drinking and sitting. Instead, Schrader opted for the most gruesome, ham-handed voiceover from Willem Dafoe, which explains why child abuse is as inevitable as it is tragic.  Schrader also gives us wrapping up scenes (in grainy b&w, of course) to show further damage done by Whitehouse.  Also, in a move that was calculated to be both foreboding and enticing (failing both), the film lets us know that Wade Whitehouse is still out there, prowling, on the loose. Then again, Godzilla ended that way, too, but I don't think there's a great many people who want to see that old bastard's return, either. "},{"Title":"No! No! No!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot imagine anything else to say, but thisThis absolutely has to be the WORST movie Nick Nolte ever starred in. I can't imagine that I have ever seen any crappier movie than this - in my entire lifetime.I can't even imagine why this movie was made. It stinks.   "},{"Title":"Can't believe I watched this!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies that I've ever seen. I was so bored. Besides the fact that I can't stand Nick Nolte, the movie sucked. I don't understand how people can like this movie. The whole storyline is stupid, and I hated it. the ending is one of the worst in any film ever. I give it a 1 out of 5! "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I've ever seen.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I want my money back.  What a waist of film.  This has to be one of the slowest and boring films of all time.  What were they thinking.  This story has been done 10 million times and I'm tired of it.  I didn't feel sorry for any of the character nor did I want to.  This should have been made into a Movie of the Week or something.  I'm very disappointed.Paul Schrader is a great director.  I truly hope he makes up for this film in future pictures. "},{"Title":"Good acting, cliches galore","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There's a good deal of buzz about Nick Nolte's performance as the tortured son of James Coburn's physically abusive father, and the buzz is deserved, but the impact of Nolte's performance is blunted by a nearly incoherent script.The point of what's on screen (I haven't read the novel, so I don't know if it's any more sophisticated than this), is that physical abuse, like a disease, is passed from generation to generation; oh, and it causes low self-esteem and the inability to form close relationships. If you already know this, there's nothing more here to learn.Watching this, I wondered if director Paul Schrader had seen Fargo too often but without really getting it. There's an attempt at injecting a murder mystery into the spine of the film, but in the end you're not sure if there even was a murder, much less who did it.The only reason to see this film is if you're a major Nolte fan.  Coburn's performance is intense but one-dimensional, Sissy Spacek plays the Anne Archer character but with a weird southern accent that is wholly out of place in the backwater New Hampshire town in which she's supposed to have grown up, and Holmse Osborne's French Canadian accent seems borrowed from Twin Peaks. Oh, and Willem Dafoe's narrator/brother can't seem to figure out why he's in this film in the first place.Pass. Seriously. "}{"Title":"strong story deflated by a flawed finish","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What if, at the end of Cool-Hand Luke, in the scene where Luke is being driven away to die in the warden's station wagon, we had been treated to a voice-over on the historic cruelty of the Southern prison farm system??? Would have sorta deflated the whole movie, wouldn't it have??This is the effect of the Hillary Clinton-ish little speech on male violence we get at the end of this otherwise strong story which leads us up to the tragic conclusion that Wade cannot escape the forces that shaped him. That little monologue clubs us over the head and deflates the whole movie, transforming it from a moderately engrossing story with a good feeling for tragic destiny, to a social uplift screed.Wade's daughter, who we sympathise with at first, I found to be somewhat of an unlikeable little whiner by the end, especially when she snubs Wade's desperate efforts to buy her a Big Mac because junk food is bad for you. (When she whined I want to go home for the 100th time, I wanted Wade to say Fine by me!, and turn the truck around). Coburn's performance is a bit ham-handed and the script doesn't help him at the end when it calls for him to congratulate Wade at the point when the son seems, a bit too obviously, to have finally become his father.  The murder mystery subplot seems a cheap device to try to give the movie some box office boost, and is completely gratuitous.Having said that, Nolte's beautifully-paced performance does have a gripping urgency to it, as Wade tries more and more desperately, against the odds, to escape his destiny. The tone of the movie is wonderfully bleak and foreboding, and the sense of impending doom is well-conveyed. The final scene, of Wade sitting, drinking, at the kitchen table with the window framing the burning barn outside, is a memorably powerful image. Unfortunately it is destroyed by that awful voiceover.The movie is still, however, far superior to most of the dreck coming out of Hollywood nowadays.  "}]