[{"Title":"nice drama,good acting","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a story of a mature woman who gets to take care of a little boy,after her own daughter moves out.The two have a great time,and the woman even becomes friends with the boy's mother, who is completely different from her.The older woman is very proper,but caring and the boy's mother is the wilder type. Then there also is a truck-driver, who is a friend of the wild woman,and he falls in love with the older woman.By that time her life isn't what it used to be anymore!The acting was very good,especially Marisa Tomei was great as Monica Warren,the little boy's mom! Also I very much liked Gerard Depardieu as the truck-driver,but then again, he is always funny. Jake Lloyd put on a great show too,as JJ Warren,and also I liked the acting of daughter Annie (Moira Kelly)!Overall this is a nice drama/comedy! "},{"Title":"Melodrama without the melo","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unhook the Stars is all about Rowlands who plays a middle aged widow with grown kids who wakes up one day to find herself no longer needed as a wife and mother. An uneventful and even character study which builds enough interest in the Rowlands character to make it not too difficult to overlook her supporting cast who play obvious stereotypes, Unhook... is a flick with no punchline which plays like a meal with no dessert. The entertainment is in the ride, not the destination. A good slice of mature life flick worth a look. "},{"Title":"Sometimes you deserve to have your stars unhooked","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a collection of screwed up folks. Here we have a woman who has lost control of her life, not to mention her mouth; a permanently aggravated daughter; a goofy wife beater who sings Cocker atrociously; and a hot to trot trucker and his blinky, well meaning girlfriend. Together they form one of the best dramas I've seen in a good while as they try, try, try to get their lives on track so they can just be whole and happy. First rate. "},{"Title":"Interesting contrasts","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two very different women, one a demure, middle-aged woman with an over-bearing son and a rebellious daughter; the other, an in -your-face young woman. They are neighbors and find a need for each other in a very human way. Depardieu is the fellow who makes a difference in Rowland's life -we never know how much. I wish more had been made of the relationship between Rowland and her daughter. It never becomes clear what their problem really is, and nothing is really resolved. Another exit to the airport ending leaving the viewer with many questions unanswered -very annoying, but overall a good film.  "},{"Title":"Gena Rolands is superb...","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the title of this film goes along with the song ...nothing left to do here, but unhook the stars.... After the death of her husband, Gena Rowlands finds herself in a big house, with no family, and nothing to take care of.She begins to care for the young son of Marisa Tomei, who is involved with an abusive soon to be ex-husband. The actor playing her son does very well, he develops a relationship with Rolands, she becomes a surrogate grandmother.Such a nice story, because it is realistic, and not overdone. Rolands has another son who lives in San Francisco, and wants her to move into his penthouse; when she realizes her daughter-in-law just wants a live-in babysitter, she says ...No-I'm done...; While she loves her children she now realizes it is her turn; her time to do something SHE actually wants.At the end we see her packing up the house; her younger daughter is upset; there will be no more family home. But Rowlands realizes she is doing the right thing; her relationship with the young boy has faded; she now needs to do something for herself.There are also a few amusing scenes with Gerard Depardieu, as a truck driver who she meets at a bar with Tomei and her friends. Overall a bittersweet movie which is a nice change, showing a mature woman re-discovering her life, and not taking care of everyone else, at the expense of her own identity. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Golden Gena & Magnificent Marisa; a gem","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" UNHOOK THE STARS (1996) ***1/2 Gena Rowlands, Marisa Tomei, Gerard Depardeau, Jake Lloyd, Moira Kelly, David Sherrill, Bridgitte Wilson, David Thornton, Clint Howard. Excellent acting by Rowlands and Tomei as a widower and a troubled neighbor, respectively, who become friends after the latter asks the former to babysit her quiet, yet bright boy (Lloyd in a remarkable debut that eschews cuteness for real depth, no easy task for a five year old; Lloyd later was cast as the young Darth Vader in the Star Wars prequel!). Emotionally satisfying thanks to an even-handed directorial debut by Rowlands' son Nick Cassavettes(the late auteur John's prodigy), who co-wrote the well-written scrip with Helen Cladwell. Guaranteed to have you laughing and crying; dare you not to get a lump in your throat by the film's poignant ending between Lloyd and Rowlands. Nice job by all around! ** Personal note I relate this film to my own upbringing between my mother and grandmother. "},{"Title":"Unlikely neighbors","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Unhook the stars marked the directorial film debut of Nick Casavettes, the son of the immensely talented John Casavettes and Gena Rowlands. This is clearly the director's homage to his beautiful mother, which probably was the reason this film was made. The screen play by the director and Helen Caldwell, doesn't translate to a good film, as we watch the finished product. Mr. Casavettes' heart is in the right place, but the movie, as written, doesn't make much sense.First of all, one wonders where Mildred went wrong. Her daughter Annie is a mess. Her son, the yuppie, lives in his own material world. We would like to think Mildred and her late husband created a nice environment for these two children. They both turned out to be losers in their own right.Mildred's neighbors don't belong in her neighborhood. One wonders how the probably low wage earner, Monica, can live across the street from Mildred's better than average home. A lady like Mildred would probably have told Monica off from the beginning. The way Monica curses in every sentence would have been a turn off factor for Mildred. Of course, we know she goes along because suddenly she has found the sweet little J.J. that Monica dumps on her.Monica and Mildred live in two different worlds and it's hard for us to accept their situation because Monica shows no redeeming qualities, except the love for her son. Mildred, on the other hand, doesn't have a clue about how to reach out for her daughter. The only positive thing Mildred does is to sell the house and go into a new life. Miami in her future? The other thing that doesn't make sense is to watch the elegant Mildred going to the dive where Monica takes her to drink. Big Tommy's interest in her, while it might be sexual, is not fully realized either because they stick out like oil and vinegar. There is no chemistry between Mildred and this big French Canadian guy.Gena Rowlands does an excellent job as Mildred. She is always serene and composed. That's why Marisa Tomei over acting, the way she does, looks completely out of place, next to Mildred. Jake Lloyd is sweet and not bratty as J.J., the boy who loves Mildred until his father comes back home. Moira Kelly's Annie is an enigma. David Sherrill and Bridgette Wilson play Mildred's son and daughter-in-law. Poor Gerard Depardieu, a great star in his native France, doesn't have a thing to show for himself. M. Depardieu should choose more carefully his future films in America!With the exception of She's so Lovely, which reminded us more of his father's influence, and John Q, Nick Casavettes hasn't made a name for himself as of yet. It would be a great help for Mr. Casavettes to study his father's films, then, perhaps, he would find an inspiration for directing more movies that will showcase his talent. This one, or The Notebook, alas, don't help him at all. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Emotionally Arousing Movies I've Ever Seen","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marisa Tomei has always been one of my favorite actresses. She has a very individual, very strong, not to mention incredibly hot, presence and is one of the major scene thieves of our time. She is by far the best thing about My Cousin Vinny, which would hardly be even close to being as worthwhile without her. She is the only reason to watch Just A Kiss. She is wonderful in Happy Accidents and In the Bedroom. In Unhook the Stars, she is a joy to see, not just for her presence and ability to intrigue even inaminate objects but also for the freedom-emblazoned attitude she fleshes out in her character. She is not at all subtle, but she is a realistically subtle contrast to Gene Rowlands, who plays opposite her. However, in this film, Gena Rowlands serves to be the first person I've ever seen who's stolen any scene from the likes of Marisa Tomei. Tomei's earliest scenes are brilliantly fiery, both hilarious and alarming, one of these great instances involving dialogue with other characters while she is in another room cursing and raving into the phone incidentally during the natural pauses in between the other characters' exchanges. But gradually, Rowlands earns our focus a bit more, because I've hardly felt more deeply for many other characters in many other movies.Gena Rowlands plays a mother on the latter end of middle age whose daughter gives her great disrespect and constantly runs off, leaving her to do her paper route. She has a highly serious and successful son who lives for admiration and objectifies his wife. Rowlands is lonely, riding the gentle winds through the motions of life at home. When Tomei, grungy, aggressive young mother, asks her to babysit her young son while she's at work, a new and beautiful relationship emerges into Rowlands's life, giving her great happiness and fulfillment, but the natural interferences and oncoming decisions of life seem to taper it. The scenes with her and the young boy are so touching and full of emotion. I won't explain further into her character or the story that is driven by her, but I will say that what she is is a touching, very very deeply felt characterization of a common, lonely mother of great selflessness, surrounded by the self-absorption of the people she cares the most for. And you will be surprised at how much you care for such overlooked people, people who rarely come to be the lead character in a movie.Though Nick Cassavettes doesn't quite have the intensity or fluently original technique that his father, John Cassavettes, had, he does carry on in the Cassavettes tradition of plain and direct interpretations of reality. His film is about loneliness, and about the sort of person who takes so little from us in return for so much that she gives, and how she is prompted to live. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, well written and brilliantly acted","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Targeted to the intelligent, non-adolescent.  Character driven story, extraordinarily well written.  How did this ever get the green light from a major studio?  Marisa Tomei displays her trademark ability to portray hard edged, gritty women.  "},{"Title":"Unhook the Stars- Needs A Closer Where Did Mildred Go?","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film starts out very well with Mildred's daughter, a rebellious teenager, leaving her widowed mother's home. Mildred forms a bond with next door neighbor, played in a wonderful performance by Marisa Tomei, a crude low-life with an even lower-life husband. He walks out on her and Mildred agrees to watch their young child while Tomei works.This all sounds good. Mildred finds romance with Gerard Depardieu at a bar while with the Tomei character. Mildred's son and daughter-in-law want her to join them in San Francisco. Fine.Suddenly the writing goes awry. Tomei reconciles with her husband who comes back as a changed man. Mildred suddenly sells her house and by the picture's end, we don't know where she is going to. Also, since the Tomei and Mildred's daughter had so much in common, it would have been nice to see them in the same scenes together. "}{"Title":"A pure delight from a director who doesn't get in the way of a good drama.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gena plays a suburban widow who comes at a crossroad in life. To help her along the journey is her two children who have their own problems to deal with. There is also the loud mouth mother and her little boy from across the road as well as the loving French truck driver who romances her. All of this brings a new meaning to her life and we the audience get to journey with her.  "},{"Title":"What a combination. Had to call every friend I have to recommend it.","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two accomplished thespians (Gena and Marisa) team up to give us another unforgettable performance.  Gena, as the giver who could not longer give, comes to the unavoidable conclusion that before it's all over, she had better take a little time out for herself.She finally stops helping the man-addicted neighbor.  Nick Cassavetes does a help of a job directing.Victor Casals, SAG "},{"Title":"charming","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie about a year before Star Wars The Phantom Menance came out. It's an enjoyable movie, non-formulaic and with some good acting. I particularly enjoyed Jake Lloyd's performance, which is why I looked forward to seeing him as Anakin Skywalker. Boy, all I can say is that direction must make a huge difference. He was much stiffer and forced in SWTPM than in this movie, in which he was natural and sweet. Worth a rental just to see how talented this kid actually is. "},{"Title":"Not a cookie-cutter comedy-drama...but not much of anything else either","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Gena Rowlands, sturdy and glowing, gives an admirable performance in an unconvincing role. She plays an elderly widow who forms a shaky bond with her neighbors, a hard-partying single woman (Marisa Tomei) and her young son. Directed and co-written by Rowlands' real-life son Nick Cassavetes, who gives his talented mom some lovely scenes to play, the film thankfully does not pander to commercial tastes. Still, it's too bad the language is so trashy--and the Tomei character so unappealing--making the second-half of the picture tough to get through. Supporting player Gerard Depardieu, who also co-produced, has a surprisingly sweet role as a lovestruck trucker, and the memorable finale is thoughtful and well-realized. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Good, though flawed","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a nice little film that will bring a smile to your face. An excellent character study too, of an aging woman on a crossroads in her life. Gena Rowlands is excellent as that woman, and Marisa Tomei too is good in her usual on the edge-performance.  Unfortunately, this film has some major flaws. In fact, this film is a bit too normal and predictable. I mean, I've seen SHE'S SO LOVELY too, another film by Nick Cassavetes and was surprised to see how edgy and surprising that film was. I guess I expected to see that here too.Also, there were some less convincing characters in this film. It's a shame to see how little Gerard Depardieu gets to do here. He's a great actor(just watch JEAN DE FLORETTE), but in Hollywood he always gets to play the part of some French/Canadian drifter, most notable for his accent. That's just a terrible waste of talent. And then there was the young Jake Lloyd. Boy, was he unconvincing. There are so many good child actors these days(though some less talented ones too), but young Lloyd here is not one of them (for now) in my opinion. And does that boy ever smile? Not a very likeable character in this film.But anyways, you'll surely like this film. It's not a masterpiece, but if you like the leads(Rowlands and Tomei), you'll be pleased. They carry this a long way. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Did I miss something? I want my money back!!","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a great fan of Gerard Depardieu and I purchased this film based on the fact that he was in it. However, I'm sure that Mr. Depardieu was disappointed in the final product. Did most of his scenes end up on the cutting room floor? Was I just out to lunch when I was watching this film? What a lot of nonsense this movie is!Depardieu's character was never allowed to be developed. I am convinced that he gave his usual stellar performance, but there was just not enough screen time to give dimension or depth to the character. One could wonder what was the purpose of having him in the film. His character was supposed to be one of many catalysts in the life of the character that Ms. Rowlands played. The contrast of these two was never fully realized.I am not acquainted with Ms. Rowlands' work, but she seemed competent in this role. The film was, I suppose, too much like a slice of someone's life - boring, and with no impetus toward an end. There was no continuity in the film - it merely meandered like a sluggish stream.Ms. Tomei was acting? Perhaps not. Perhaps she was just being herself. She did not invoke my sympathy, or even my interest. She was supposed to have brought about a change in the lead character, or the lead was supposed to have brought about a change in her character. Neither was apparent.I found it very difficult to remain watching this movie. I kept longing for the end, or else for something to be of value so that I would not have wasted my time or my money. The woman (Rowlands) is leaving her best friend (the little JJ who gave the best performance in my opinion) for what? -for Miami, that Depardieu's character briefly mentioned and never developed or planned out the idea? Is the point supposed to be that she's being a martyr? That was never developed. The whole movie was never developed! It was vague and disjointed, with no feeling of closure or of even wondering what would become of the heroine. Who cares!I love a good cerebral movie, but this wasn't it. I'm not sure what it was, except forgettable! "},{"Title":"Marisa Tomei, Jake Lloyd, Gerard Depardieu...What More Could You Ask For?!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently purchased this film at a local video store as I am a big fan of Jake Lloyd, Marisa Tomei and Gerard Depardieu.  They're all excellent actors with tremendous talent - they all shine in this spectacular comedy.  One of the most memorable scenes is when Monica (Marisa Tomei) swears openly to her date on the phone with her son J.J. (Jake Lloyd) a few feet away at the dinner table during Thanksgiving (check out the dinner).  I mean, what would a movie starring Marisa Tomei be like without having her saying f*** in it?  Honestly.  And what about Gerard....how can you not get hungry watching his movies - the man and food, I don't know.  He did, of course, a great job as a French-Canadian truck driver.  Then there's Jake Lloyd.  Does this kid ever not give an excellent performance?  I mean really.  He shines as sweet little J.J. Also look for other great performances by Moira Kelly, David Thornton, and Bridgette Wilson.  Great cast overall.  This film was well worth the purchase and just cries out for multiple viewings.  However Cyndi Lauper's theme song is terrible.  But of course R.E.M.'s Country Feedback is always welcome.  Terrific film.  "}]