[{"Title":"The most hyperactive movie I've ever seen!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"24 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"     Wow! What a fun movie!  I love Cats Don't Dance with a passion. I found it so refreshing to see animation like this after such a long string of Disney films so bent on realism.  Here, the animation is cartooney, way-overblown, and UNBELIEVABLY manic!  The story is wonderfully carried out with anthropomorphic animal characters (something you don't often see in features), and the uplifting message is catching.  It's very entertaining and very funny!  I recommend you view Cats Don't Dance while feeling very energetic. Otherwise, it'll just make you tired. Probably not everybody's cup of tea, but it sure is MINE!  An enthusiastic 10/10 stars!P.S. Did you know that Scott Bakula can sing? He sure can! "},{"Title":"Fun and entertaining..","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hollywood-it either makes or breaks you, sends some dreamers to the top, and others home.  Can a little ambition go a long way?Set in the late 1930s, Cats Don't Dance is about Danny (voice of Scott Bakula), a singing and dancing cat from Kokomo, who heads to Hollywood in search of a big break, complete with dreams, ambitions, and a song in his heart.  He is immediately hired to play a part in Lil Arc Angel, a picture starring Hollywood's most celebrated actress, Darla Dimple (Ashley Peldon/Lindsay Ridgeway), whom, beneath her sweetie-pie personality, is really a spoiled brat who hates animals and will do anythig to destroy their dreams.  Danny decides to steal the show from Darla, who shows her true colors.  When he approaches Darla for help in getting the animals a big break, Darla conjures up a plan to get them all blacklisted from movies.  Can Danny prove that ambition can get them their dreams?As a 19 year old, its not very common to like cutesy cartoons.  However, this was something that would entertain anyone.  Sure, the songs are corny, but the dance numbers are fun, and the singers really know their stuff.  Scott Bakula, providing both the vocal and singing tracks for Danny, is energetic and fun, and he sings really well.  Jasmine Guy and Natalie Cole, as Sawyer, is seductive and ambitious, just not willing to show it.  The supporting animal cast, including Don Knotts as T.W. and Kathy Najimy as Tilly Hippo, are funny and smart.  Kudos to Ashley Peldon and Lindsay Ridgeway, as Darla Dimple, who make her EXTREMELY evil, which I love.Fave parts The dancing scene in the alley, the Lil Arc Angel scene in the beginning, the part where Darla has Danny at her house, eating animal crackers and being sweetly evil, and the ending, which I won't give away.  I liked the song Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now.  As for fave lines, I had a few.  Max What sound does the kitty cat make? Danny (big fake grin)Meow???  Max Gooood.  This was also funny when the tables were turned.  Scott Bakula doing all sorts of variations of Meow was classic too.  Max cracked me up, hulking around scaring the animals.  He even started to dance (one of the funniest moments).This was a wonderful film, and I highly recommend it to anyone who wants a good laugh, likes cartoons, or Scott Bakula.  This is a charming film that encourages chasing your dreams, no matter how big they are.  As T.W. said, They can break your cookie, but you'll always have your fortune.  Isn't that the stuff dreams are made of? "},{"Title":"Fresh and funny","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Having grown slightly weary of Disney's modern formula, I was pleasantly surprised to find an animated movie that didn't try to be something BIG. The formula was fresh and original, despite the fact that the premise is as old as time, and the songs were jazzy and finger snapping. All in all, this was a fun movie. Fun and high energy. There was also not one single weak character. No stupid sidekicks here. Everybody makes the experience enjoyable. And the humor is priceless. They also managed to make the story thoughtful and even touching while still keeping the movie light and fun. Great direction. Great music. Great animation. Overall, just a great movie. Surprising for a WB movie. This movie came out the same year as Disney's own Hercules, but this is many times better. "},{"Title":"I could kick myself for seeing this wonderful film only once in my childhood","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remembered seeing Cats Don't Dance when I was 10, and really liking it. To this day, I still find it a mystery as to why I didn't see it again since, and I can't think of a convincing enough reason why other than I forgot about it. Then, I was reading some reviews by chance that were praising this film, and I decided I must give it another chance. Thank goodness for YouTube. And you know what, I am glad I did that, and now I am kicking myself for only seeing this film once in my childhood. Seriously I loved it, why it is so underrated I don't know.I am also scratching my head on some of the aspects of the film critical reviews have picked up. Critics complained of dull characters, and others of forgettable songs. Now I will admit that Cats Don't Dance is surprisingly ambitious, but I cannot disagree more with the criticism that it has forgettable music. I thought it was wonderful, the incidental music itself was beautiful, but the songs were amazing and definitely memorable, from the wonderfully energetic end number, to the poignant one sung by Sawyer in the rain. Though special mention has to go to Big and Loud, where Lindsay Ridgeway did a spectacular job with the singing voice of the antagonist Darla Dimple.And the characters certainly weren't dull. Danny is a very likable Gene Kelly-like protagonist, and Sawyer is lovely. And if you're looking for a character for comic relief, look to Flannigan especially. But the most memorable character is easily Darla, wonderfully voiced by Ashley Peldon. You could say Darla is like Shirley Temple's evil twin, she is very cute yet she is mighty mean too. Her bodyguard Max for some reason frightened me at the end when he was chasing Danny when I first saw Cats Don't Dance. The animation is colourful and detailed, and the voice cast is excellent. Other definite pros are in the surprisingly consistent and mature scripting, the inspired story, its constant sense of fun and the glamorous and irresistible choreography. All in all, despite the decent enough rating on IMDb(though I personally think it should be in the 7s) this is a very underrated and almost forgotten film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"My entire family loves this colorful, clever, comedic, cartoon!","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats Don't Dance is an excellent animated film, and if you asked my three kids, they'd tell you it's one of their favorite movies ever!  Cats Don't Dance can be enjoyed whether you're age 4 (close to my youngest child) or age 40 (close to me).  The movie uses bright and crisp colors which make you pay attention---and you'll have to!  Cats moves at a rapid pace.  I'm always apprehensive when I hear about animated musicals because the songs usually stink.  However, I think the songs and musical sequences in Cats are better than those in most Disney hit movies.  Darla Dimples's performance singing Big And Loud is an animated classic.  My kids sing Cats songs just for fun.  They've seen the movie (by their own request) almost 20 times.  By the way, I knew Natalie Cole was a good singer, but who knew that Scott Bakula was too?  Cats Don't Dance has great dialogue (Danny and Sawyer at her job, the same two cats arguing while a disaster ensues, and Danny meeting with Darla Dimple at her home are among my favorite scenes.  If characters are going to achieve a good and noble goal in a movie, there MUST be worthy foils trying to stop them.  Cats Don't Dance has two of the best villians ever in Darla Dimple and her behemoth of a butler Max.  Darla takes being two-faced to a whole new level.  (Notice at least twice in the movie when the red bow on her head looks more like two horns)  Max is so huge that he actually blocks out light!  His laugh is chillingly amazing and Max the the BEST line of dialogue in the movie How does the kitty cat gooooooooooooooo? Danny 'Meow?'  Very goooooooooood. Every character in this movie (most of whom are animals) are drawn exaggeratedly and that fits perfectly for the theme and tone of this movie. Cats is a funny, wild ride for children and adults.  If you like animation and/or musicals and/or clever comedy, you'll love Cats Don't Dance. It's a shame this great movie isn't more popular.  Hopefully good word-of-mouth (and word-of-internet) will change that. "},{"Title":"its my favorite animated movie","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" this movie is great-- i watched it when i was small, and i've loved it ever since! my favorite characters are Danny and sawyer... i just thought Danny was so cute and the sparks between Danny and sawyer were adorable!!! well, i guess my real favorite character would have to be sawyer, she's a great dancer and has some really good songs. my ultimate favorite scene was in the last number nothing's going to stop us now when they were in the venice scene...i thought it was the cutest, even if it was only a few seconds long! but it definitely was a cute movie, and my favorite of all time. this was a great movie. everyone, of all ages, should watch it. "},{"Title":"Good fun if you give it a chance","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a great movie for both kids and adults! I have 3 boys, ages 4,  9 and 14, and they ALL like the film, especially the songs. The strange thing is that my boys generally think musical numbers are girl-stuff. Well, girl-stuff or not, they get into this flic, and I sometimes catch them singing along with the catchy tunes.Scott Bakula is a real surprise as Danny, the talented singing and dancing cat from Kokomo, Indiana, who comes to Hollywood with stars in his eyes, and ignites the fading dreams of the jaded animals who work as extras while humans get all the good scenes.The principal characters are well cast and easy to like, except for Darla and Max, whom you'll love to hate!  BTW - I don't know the name of the young woman who did the singing voice for Darla, but she has a set of pipes that will absolutely knock you on your seat. Big And Loud!Take a look at this movie with an open mind and a young heart. You'll be glad you gave it a chance! "},{"Title":"A Cartoon Animal Tribute To Golden Age Hollywood","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats Don't Dance is a delightful animated feature in the style of a 1930's musical comedy. The main character, Danny (voiced by Scott Bakula), is a high-spirited cat from Kokomo, Indiana who goes to Hollywood with dreams of becoming a movie star. But there he finds limited roles available for animals. The story is a sly message about discrimination. The imagery is bright and the music is catchy. The villainess is a wonderful Darla Dimple, a Shirley Temple parody of a child star with a dark side. Together with her monstrous manservant Max, they provide many laughs. Other funny animals include Tilly the Hippo (voiced by Kathy Najimy) and T.W. the Turtle (voiced by Don Knotts). So Cats Don't Dance is an enjoyable movie for everyone! "},{"Title":"Proof that movies are made from dreams.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'll always be a hardcore Disney fan, but I can't help but have a real soft spot for movies which prove that dreams can come true. This movie about anthropomorphic characters (animals that are like people) is simply incredible- animation stylized, cute, and fun... with an incredible plot, great music (I bought the soundtrack), amazing voice talent (that includes singing!), and believable characters.  This is a real keeper...and I'm surprised that it didn't get as much attention as it deserved.  I'd reccomend it to anyone who's had a dream, or who has one... and those who just love cartoons.  "},{"Title":"One of the best animated musicals ever made; personal favorite","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  How about an animated story with animal subversives as out of work actors/musicians rising up against a repressive Hollywood movie-mogul dynasty by way of performing the hippest, swingingest dance number. Think it'll work?Only if the story is realistic enough.I haven't had this warm and swingin' a feeling watching an animated feature since, well, the last time I watched Tom O'Malley and Duchess (Phil Harris and Eva Gabor's voices) in the movie The Aristocats.If you haven't seen this animated musical yet and you've been yearning to see a new cartoon feature that is produced the way they used to make 'em, this one's for you. Besides satisfying a craving for 30s/deco styled cartoons, the writing also toys with some deeper themes reminiscent of that era. It's a funny combination because we usually expect cartoons to never dig deeper than surface humor as there's never enough time for character development. However, some very witty writing (there were 10 writers listed in the credits) manages to take this story well into subject matter that is almost downright noir! That's saying a lot for a cartoon musical, and to top it all off we get Randy Newman songs composed apparently during an especially fertile period of this already extremely talented songwriter and Steve Goldstein's Broadway flair adds up to a wallop of absolutely top-notch songs.Big & Loud has an arrangement that Mancini undoubtedly would have been very proud to have written and is belted to perfection by vocalist Lindsay Ridgeway. The female cat character is as jaded and sultry as Michelle Pfeiffer was in Baker Boys, and is sung by Natalie Cole who we all know is one of the most incredible female swing vocalists who has ever lived. This film really has it all. A rare gem, especially for a cartoon.My favorite character is Woolie Mammoth, a cynical elephant pianist that immediately reminds me of Brahms, only he's a ragtime genius on the keys. In fact, there is not one (NOTE NOT ONE) weak character in the whole cast. That is, every single supporting wiseacre line in this fast moving musical romp is written & executed perfectly. Of course, when you're writing classic 30s shtick there's plenty of tried & tested winning material and timing (timing, timing, timing!!!) to draw from and it's therefore easier than trying to make a gargoyle or a sea turtle funny. That's exactly where this flick excels, and there's no shame in that.The most amazing thing about this movie is how it wasn't a blockbuster success from the tee-off. That's okay; there's nothing wrong with being a sleeper success. Absolutely unbelievable that Malkin panned this filck has bad as he did, considering how good it is and the quality of music etc. In the recent rush of animation features vying to break out of the children's film mold during the past few years, it seems you need a stylish techno look to get noticed. But in the long run, the real talent will eventually outshine the rest. Cats Don't Dance is one that should easily hold its place on the video collectors shelf. But to me, well... there are only a few movies that can make me cry. The Sound of Music is one that always gets me right here. There are certain places in Cats Don't Dance that are very touching, too. Okay, I admit it. I'm a sentimental old fool. Fortunately for me, movies & sentimentality go together like cookies & milk. "}{"Title":"Cute, funny and incredibly enjoyable","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" In the nineties, there were several attempts made by different studios in order to emulate the style from the animated films that the Disney company were producing at those years (Such as Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast and The Lion King) Some of those attempts were corny and lame, but fortunately, this nice animated film (Which was also the first animated movie directed by Mark Dindal, the same director The Emperor's New Groove) instead of trying to imitate the Disney formula, prefers to be a light-hearted homage to all the classic musicals from the Golden Age of Hollywood, worked incredibly well in that aspect. The plot is fast-paced, but easy to follow, with very likable characters, and many funny situations and clever dialogues, not to mention the incredibly catchy songs, that were the best part of the movie.From my very personal point of view, I think that the combination of all those elements worked much better than in The Emperor's New Groove (Which is also a good movie, but I like this more) This is a nice movie for the whole family, and I highly recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"A brilliant change of pace","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film does what few animated musicals attempt but fail to accomplish. The energy and feeling of an old silver screen musical. Gene Kelly would be proud. The animation is quite the throwback to the Chuck Jones era of cartoons. The city is wonderfully drawn and given a slight art deco feel. The voice acting is spot on for all of the characters and the singing talent is some of the best. Randy Newman does a wonderful job of scoring this film. His musical arrangements are upbeat and fun when need be and pull at your heart's strings at the right time.It's quite sad that this film was brushed under the carpet by Warner Bros. The lack of popularity, besides not being a Disney movie, could also be due to the fact that the story deals with a subject that not many kids are familiar with, Racism. But the older audience will really appreciate this movie on a whole different level.Cats Don't Dance was a film that was destined to fail but at the same time left to be one of the best animations of our time. "},{"Title":"Undoubtedly One of the Best Non-Disney Animated Musicals.","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was quite small when I saw this movie inside of the local Blockbuster. Naturally, being the animal/animation lover that I am, I immediately picked it up. Watched it, loved it. Then it quickly disappeared from my memory and everyone else's since all of its hype burned out; however, it suddenly started popping up on television a few years later, and I must say, it's as good a watch as the first.The plot We find our hero, Danny the Cat, heading out to Hollywood in pursuit of his dreams to become a star. The cat is bursting with musical talent, as well as his other animal friends, like Tillie, Frances, and especially Sawyer. However, the business only has its eye on musically talented humans and our friends are left out of the spotlight. Can Danny overcome firmly established prejudiced ways and the fake child star Darla Dimple, and make it to the big time, or will he and his friends be stuck with the two-bit roles? The first thing that sticks out about this movie is the animation. Wonderful, bright,zany, and fast-paced a very different take on the more, slower moving animated movies. From the memorable ark ride to simply the characters being themselves, the animation was simply fantastic. It dared to be different, and not only did it pay off well with the lasting appeal of the movie itself, but it greatly helped the musical numbers, which were just wonderful.Of course, with this being a musical, you're going to be like not another Disney-wannabe. Their songs are already bad enough.... CDD pleasantly surprised me. The songs were very enjoyable. Witty lyrics coupled with good music actually made me feel the writer's took time to develop these songs and the score. Songs ranging from the all-around fun I've Got Rhythm to the soulful tune of Tell Me Lies greatly moved the story to the wonderful finale that had me with my eyes glued to the screen.All in all, this movie is a nice little break from many of the overworked Disney movies of today. Good plot, wonderful, colorful animation, and actually GOOD songs make this a feature that is not to be missed. And as a little token to this wonderful movie See you in the movies! "},{"Title":"A fantastic, colorful, high-energy animated movie","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of those movies I remember seeing a couple times as a kid, and really really loving every second of. After going many years without seeing it again, I recently had the impulse to find and watch the film. To my surprise, it still held up just about as well as it had when I was younger, and in fact if anything I appreciate it more now.The animation in Cats Don't Dance is superb. There are few other animated films which have the same level of color and distinctive, characteristic charm to them, and the brilliant animation style makes the characters themselves similarly memorable and very expressive. It's a perfect example of the animation complementing the characters and events, as well as adding to the overall excitement of the movie.The story is relatively straightforward, and ostensibly isn't anything new it's the classic story of a naive out-of-towner pursuing a Hollywood dream, discovering Hollywood's real-world coldness, and manages to ultimately find the strength to overcome the obstacles before them and make it big. However, it's executed very well and cleverly enough that it doesn't feel very clichéd.The characters are great as well, and I wouldn't say any of them are underdeveloped or uninteresting. Danny, the protagonist, is naive and optimistic on entering the Hollywood scene. Although the ruthlessness and cruelty of show business breaks his naiveté, he never really loses his optimistic edge, which I think is what makes him work as a character throughout the entire film his determination to make it big only grows, and as the story progresses he increasingly desires to help the other animals as well. Once simple enough to accept Darla Dimple's word as trustworthy enough, he finds himself only further hardened in his will and he, in the end, manages to beat her at her own game, thoroughly upstaging her in the process (with the other animals accompanying, of course.)Sawyer shares Danny's romanticism about the Hollywood dream and herself had been similarly ambitious, but had adopted a more realistic, cynical attitude towards the possibility of her own dreams of fame being achieved. Nonetheless, she does not come off as overtly bitter, and in the beginning of the movie she seems almost satisfied with (or at least accepting of) her simpler clerical work, with none of the broken dreams attitude one might expect. Danny becomes determined to bring her back in touch with her dreaming persona, and although she resists initially she slowly rediscovers her larger ambition. The dynamic between the two characters grows into a love interest as Danny becomes attracted to Sawyer's romantic edge and seductive energy, and she eventually to his undying dedication and determination.The antagonist, Darla Dimple, is a very effective villain she is sadistic, cruel, and completely self-serving, and hides it from the public under the guise of innocent, angelic childhood. Most of the animals know enough not to get in her way, but Danny is naive enough to trust her with his and the other animals' lives, giving her ample opportunity to crush them completely (she literally attempts to drown them, but failing this, at least frames them for flooding the studio.) Unfortunately for her, her facade of sweetness can barely be kept up as Danny attempts to bring himself and the other animals a last crack at making themselves seen and heard, and when her effort to sabotage their show backfires she loses it and exposes herself, before the audience, to be the monstrosity that she is.The supporting characters are also entertaining. The various animals deal with their lost dreams of fame in their own ways, and in each case they seem, as with Sawyer, to have accepted it (even Flanigan the goat, bitter as he is, just seems to be generally grouchy more than anything else.) However, they all lack the same degree of hidden ambition and, up until the end, feel they'd rather continue on as regular little people than put themselves on the line again. Nonetheless, they still retain their same love of their talents and, when they finally see a perfect opportunity before them at the end, they give it their best. Max, Ms. Dimple's gargantuan butler, is surprisingly amusing despite (okay, because of) the outward stupidity of his character. Even more interesting is that he can be made to be both terrifying and funny, often simultaneously.One last unique aspect of the movie is the pop culture references, which are all 1930s-based people such as Laurel and Hardy and Cary Grant appear, among a number of others. Although most children won't get these references, I personally appreciated it as I last watched the film. The end credits began with a series of parody movie posters, which are interesting in that the movies they're based off of mostly came out at around the same time Cats Don't Dance did.Overall, this is one of those movies I just have endlessly fond memories of, and I highly recommend it. It has stayed off the radar for many people, simply because it was never very well-publicized, but for anyone who gets a chance to watch it it's well worth the time. "},{"Title":"The Triumphant Return of W.B. Cartoons!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Yes, we all know the Land of the Mouse controls the mass marketing, the toys and merchandising tie-ins.  Walt (tm) created the full-length animated movie against all odds.BUT... Wouldn't you rather watch Bugs Bunny?  Daffy Duck?  Anything directed by Robert McKimson, Chuck Jones or Friz Freleng?Cats Don't Dance is a WARNER BROTHERS CARTOON!!!!It is funny, flashy, and it does not insult the intelligence of any adult watching it.  Randy Newman's score is well met by Natalie Cole and the former off-Broadway musical star, Scott Bakula, more well known as Dr. Sam Beckett on tv's Quantum Leap. "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" WB kind of encroached on Disney territory with this move (especially by using Randy Newman for the songs, that was kind of a slap in the face), so i wouldn't be surprised if that was why it isn't more popular.but the songs are excellent, along with the story, animation, characters, and actors. i love natalie cole's voice, and every song that she sang in was awesome.i saw this as a child, and loved it then.after seeing it recently about ten years later, i loved it just as much--if not more--than i did then.the protagonists are endearing, and the antagonists despicable.truly enjoyable movie.see it whenever you get the chance. "},{"Title":"God I love this movie","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" without gushing, this is my favorite American animated movie of all time. When i first rented it back in 98, i had to rent it again at least 4 more times. Then i bought it on VHS, and most recently, on DVD. This movie was a part of my childhood and is still a part of me to this day. Every character in this movie is bright, wonderful, and a joy to watch. now i know i said i wouldn't gush. oh well. The movie is about a cat named danny who wants to be a Hollywood actor. So when he arrives in Hollywood he is shocked to find that it treats animals not quite as he thought, causing them to live in despair. along the way he meets sawyer, a white cat who had given up on her desire, a little penguin named pudge, a hippo named tillie, a MGM lion parody named woolly the mammoth, a turtle voiced by don knotts, and a tango duo of a goat and a fish. his main obstacle is a shirley temple joke named Darla Dimple with her HUGE servant named max. She tries everything in her power to stop him from becoming a star. now i would tell you what happens, but this movie is too good to be spoiled. This is the way movies should be. The characters are all incredibly enjoyable (even the villain), the songs are so memorable i've been singing them for 11 years (especially the intro song, danny's arrival song, and nothing's gonna stop us now), the animation is beautiful, flowing and very pleasing to the eye, and the theme, while being a bit overused is still great and warming to the heart. that if you try hard enough, you can do anything. More movies need to be this level of quality. a movie that is so good it makes you look past the tiny flaws. This movie will always have a special place in my heart, but this isn't just through the rose colored glasses of my youth, i just saw this movie again this evening and i still feel the warmth and joy i did when i first saw it. the same can't be said about some of my other movies (magic voyage. that's right. you stink). I praise this movie and i will ALWAYS praise this movie. with amazing characters, visuals, songs, and storyline, cats don't dance gets 10 big and loud cats out of 10. "},{"Title":"Under-rated over all","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have seen many movies in my life, dating from the latest movies like; Ironman, Horton Hears a Who, and Clerks 2. Even dating back to movies like; King Kong (the original,) The Wizard of Oz, and Life is Wonderful. Yet, in all my years I have seen movies get less love than they deserve. Many of these movies are ones like; Godzilla Final Wars, Cloverfield, and Alien vs. Predator Requiem. In my opinion, though, the most under-rated movie of all time has to be; Cats Don't Dance. I remember the first time I had seen this movie, I was 11 or 12 years old, it just looked kind of interesting, so I rented it from my favorite video store, TNT Video (may it rest in peace,) and took it home. My life changed from that point on. It taught me even the biggest dreams are not impossible. Even after I had became an adult,I still watched this movie whenever I was able to rent it or whenever it was on T.V., I would drop everything, ignore everything, and watch this movie that, no matter how many times I would watch it, would still make me laugh, cry, and become inspired all over again. My belief is; music is the ultimate power, it can make you happy, sad, angry, or love-struck, and this movie, Cats Don't Dance, is the embodiment of that belief. "},{"Title":"A great fun and entertaining animated musical that you'll enjoy!","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats don't dance is a fun entertaining cartoon for all the family and it's one of the best animated musicals I've ever seen. Scott Bakula is wonderful as Danny the talented ambitious cat who dreams of making it big in Hollywood. Along the way he meets a couple of animal buddies who are also like himself waiting for their chance to make their big break but whose stars have faded. Cats don't dance has some fantastic songs that are toe tapping good including Scott Bakula singing Danny's arrival song, the animal jam session, and Nothings gonna stop us now with incredible vocals from Natalie Cole and Scott Bakula.As I was saying Scott Bakula is great as Danny the enthusiastic cat with stars in his eyes. I think he did a brilliant job and his voice in the songs were just spectacular. This is cute,funny,uplifting and a feel good cartoon with a lot of heart and emotion. If you are looking for something with a real story that's fun and entertaining than look no further than this one it's a classic and one the kids will love. "},{"Title":"Adorable and subversive.  Don't miss it!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Here's a terrific little movie that hardly anyone is aware of.  In this case, that's a shame.  This is one of the best animated films of the late 90s.The animation style in Cats Don't Dance is reason enough to recommend it.  The characters are allowed to look much more bizarre than what's come to be the accepted norm (my favorites would be the cynical Sawyer and the vicious Olsen Twin caricature, Darla Dimple).  They hearken back to the classic cartoons of the thirties and forties, but they also have sort of an eighties spin as well.But what really makes Cats Don't Dance a delight is the script.  As in Babe and the Toy Story movies, the characters are able to get away with a lot of what they say by putting a non-human spin on things (the Little Ark Angel song is a sublimely hilarious classic).  I should mention that if you thought the Hollywood discrimination subtext of Who Framed Roger Rabbit was too subtle for you, this is your movie.  With all that said, I should also mention that there's nothing kids shouldn't be seeing or hearing here, but older kids and adults will get a lot more out of it.  Especially if you love old cartoons. "}{"Title":"A great movie.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw this a couple of years ago and I loved it. It was a touching film. It's about a cat named Danny who goes to Hollywood to become a performer. And despite some mishaps and discouragement, he eventually does. This film will move you. If it doesn't than your a block of stone. "},{"Title":"Deceptively Good Non-Disney Classic","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats Don't Dance (1997) is a hyper-saturated animated feast for the senses and an especially fun treat for those familiar with the musicals and screwball comedies of the 1930's. Having been accustomed to the beautiful detail of Pixar and the delicate touches of Disney's golden age, I was pleasantly surprised by a movie that takes absolute advantage of the slapsticky world of cartoons.Danny (Scott Bakula) is our wide-eyed feline protagonist who sings and dances his way into a big studio picture headlined by America's Sweetheart Darla Dimple (part voiced by Ashley Peldon and sung by Lindsay Ridgeway). His friends/critics include cynical bit players Tillie the Hippo (Kathy Najimy), Cranston the Billy goat (Hal Holbrook), Wollie the Elephant (John Rhys-Davies) and Pudge the Penguin (Matthew Herried). Also in the mix is obvious love interest Sawyer (voiced by Jasmine Guy and part sung by Natalie Cole). I say obvious because she absolutely despises Danny through two thirds of the film and she's the only other cat in the film. Call me crazy but I think that relationship is a lock.Danny learns quickly that animals aren't considered star material in Hollywood. His hamming on the set captures the attention of an infuriated Darla yet gains the respect of the other animals. This dynamic is reminiscent of how African Americans were treating during the time. Those who made a go of acting were type-casted as slaves, maids and shoe shiners. Those lucky enough to take full advantage of their roles like Hattie McDaniel in Gone with the Wind (1939) received death threats.It's interesting to not that in addition to the barrier breaking Gone with the Wind, The film also makes references to The Wizard of Oz (1939), regalia of the LGBT community instilling since of community. Maybe the creators of Cats Don't Dance wanted to make a modern day fable holding to the maxims of equality and acceptance towards all. Though the more reasonable rationale for both films getting their names in lights is they were both released in 1939.There are other sly riffs on Hollywood classics such as The Footlight Parade (1933), The Ten Commandments (1956), Singin' in the Rain (1952) and Bringing Up Baby (1938). That is in addition to the Darla Dimple character being an obvious parody of Shirley Temple at one point ravenously biting off the heads of animal crackers in front of the beleaguered Danny. They even have an onslaught of throwaway gags involving King Kong (1933), Zsa Zsa Gabor and The MGM Lion among many, many others.Yet those not looking to reduce an animated movie to a game of I Spy will still find a lot to take away. The plot while well-worn is nevertheless genuine and interesting, the animation is eye-popping- ly goofy and the songs are entertaining if occasionally a little bland. One would wish that the characters were given a little more breathing room since the pace of the film is near neck-breaking yet seeing the gang sing Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now makes it all worthwhile.Directed by the man who gave you The Emperor's New Groove (2000), featuring songs written by the considerably talented Randy Newman and starring the Captain of the Starship Enterprise NX-01, Cats Don't Dance is infectious fun. Overall not quite up there with The Lion King (1994) but comparable to Disney's Hercules (1997) released the same year. It's certainly not a film deserving of its obscurity so track it down and watch it if you can.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Why hasn't this movie garnered more attention?","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats Don't Dance is probably best remembered for being a box office bomb. However, I never see people bring up the movie as a movie? Was it a good movie? A bad movie? A mediocre movie? Well... it's actually good.However, I would not judge anyone who didn't see it because the advertising for it was awful. Watch the one and only trailer for it. It is bad. Look at the poster for it. It looks bad and uninteresting. Even the title sounds mediocre. This means that all forms of advertising for this movie were bad.I will start with the bad in this movie so that I can end on a high noteThe Main Character Danny is the main character and most problems people have with this movie is Danny. Most people see him as a one dimensional wooden character, and to a certain extent he is. He seems upbeat almost 24/7 and when he is down, he isn't down for awhile. The other issue he has is that he is incredibly naive. Now, I don't have an issue with this. Why? Because these are characteristics of real people I know. Danny is incredibly naive and upbeat, but that doesn't make him one- dimensional. It just means he doesn't have a super complex emotional journey. Imagine Tack from the unreleased Thief and the Cobbler. Tack isn't a super complex character, yet you can tell that he is thinking and what his character is by his facial expressions. The same is with Danny. He may not say a lot, but you can tell he is definitely thinking.The Plot The biggest issue I had with this movie was that the plot didn't seem to travel or go any real distance of time. It seemed over too quickly. The ending was actually the most generic aspect of this movie. The ending song wasn't very spectacular and it held the movie back a little bit. The romance was also a little forced.Those are the only issue I could find with the movie.The positivesThe Cast This movie has a really nice set of characters. All of them are entertaining, funny, unique...ish, and creative. I couldn't think of a character that actually annoyed me. The villain was easily one of the funniest aspects of the movie. The way Darla could express so much while saying very little.The Animation For a movie running on a minimal budget, the animation is very nice. It is smooth, has a nice art style, and helps express the characters. Everything is very fluid in this movie, and it helps with the characters a lot. The First Half The first half of the movie builds up the world and the characters very nicely. I initially thought this movie was going to be a lot better by its first half. Everything is quick, but the world is built up quite well.Summary Cats Don't Dance is very well animated movie that is both incredibly funny and entertaining. Its biggest drawback is that it has some forced clichés thrown in here and there that don't seem as creative as the rest of the movie. All of the characters were likable. I was surprised that such a good movie could not be remembered by the general public.Also, did anyone feel like this movie could've been speaking about racism... ever so slightly. "},{"Title":"I truly love this movie!","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I normally don't like musicals, animated or otherwise. Something about people breaking out and singing out of no where just seems to bug me and also the song after song happening just&#x85; I just don't normally care for that stuff. Now after saying this, you would think that I wouldn't like this movie, right? Actually I fell in love with it. The music and characters personalities actually work really well together, making the show just lovable. Through all the small flaws that it had (some of which are understandable as how old the show is) the story pops out the most.I really love the characters. Each one has a memorable personality that defines there character and they don't really break that stereotype except for what they lone to do weather its dancing, singing, acting out, or creating music. When you see them outside of doing what they love, you see broken people who have had their dreams smashed before their eyes. They do all they can to protect themselves from being rather gitty and feely to being grumps and adding rather sarcastic remarks. Each one feels like they have been made for the different forms of depression and loss. I know I'm going into psychological ideas for the show but this is really why I love this show. We have Danny who has his hopes and dreams shattered right out of the gate but in his mind, he believes that it is only a set back to his plans on being a star. He is what I would call the first stage of loss called Denial. He just can't believe that the world is as bad as people are making it out to be. Then we have the anger stage and I feel the character that says this most is Cranston Goat and partly in his dancing partner, Frances Albacore. They are always being sarcastic and rude to the others. The only stage that does not seem to be shown is the third with Bargaining. No one seems to do that type of stuff although we have a very over optimistic hippo that is being nice to everyone, always trying to help them out. Forth stage of Depression is depression itself, shown very well in T.W. who is always saying negative things based on his fortune cookies. The last one I believe would be for Sawyer, Acceptance. She accepts that she will never make it to the top, she will always be the secretary, never the Diva, and even forgets her dreams. She doesn't even do it for fun and thinks it's just a waist of time.We have a story that pretty much has a storybook tale of a guy looking to make it big in the movies doing what he truly loves to do, to dance and sing. As he gets to Hollywood though, not everything is as glamorous as it was made out to be and part of that is something that I believe not many picked out on when the show was first shown. The storyline has a very strong feeling to racism that is surprising for a show made for younger children and it's what I believe makes the show speak to the older crowd. If you substitute the word 'Animal' with the word 'Black' or 'Latino' or even 'Asian' you can kind of see where I'm going with it. The idea that these animals are not treated with the same idea as humans. They don't get a chance to be a star, only background characters who are pretty much stereotyped by the type of creature they are. For example, the Noah Ark show they start taping makes them have only one line and its based on the sound there animal makes. The dog says woof, the cow says moo, and the cat says meow. They aren't given a chance to show they can do anything else because they weren't even cast because of their talent.The artwork is really catered to the year it came out but it actually doesn't feel all that old. The art style was created with very outrageous and exaggerated features like rather skinny waists that make them look like they would brake apart at any moment. We have cartoon-ish faces and at times they end up squashing and stretching as they move in order to show a rather extensive movement. It's hard to really explain it but its pretty amazing that the humans are drawn almost as though they are animals themselves or don't seem 'human'. The animals seem so much more human then the humans themselves though it's hard to actually explain. The only one that seems any close to human is the little Darla Dimple character who is the main villain of the show.The music is actually really nice and catchy, making you just want to dance at some times which works with the whole concept of the story. If you want to have a story about people trying to become a star, you need some pretty high class music to make it. I found myself singing along with some of the songs including the opening song 'I'm on my Way' which seemed to tell the storyline rather well. The voice acting is really good with big name people like Don Knotts playing the rather nervous turtle, T.W., to Betty Lou Gerson who had done the voice of Cruella De Vil in the 1961 version of 101 Dalmations. We even have Dee Bradley Baker who did the voice of Daffy Duck in Space Jam and did voices in many old TV shows like 'Hey Arnold!', 'Rugrats', and 'Johnny Bravo'. When you put all these voices together, it makes for a really interesting sounding movie. "},{"Title":"A bit over the top.","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I caught a rendering of a scene on Deviant Art, and was told that the scene was from an animated feature called Cats Don't Dance. I took a chance on it, and saw a film that I think could have been better than it ultimately became.When I think of classic MGM cartoons I immediately think of Tom and Jerry, Droopy, Screwy Squirrel and a few others. Well, Cats Don't Dance is none of those, but it does have a certain charm. A lot of the classic ultra violent slapstick that is that hallmark of the classic cartoon has been replaced with high energy benign comic styleings that, to be honest, don't really hit the mark. I'm sorry, but even kids know that comedy is the misfortune of others, largely because it makes us feel superior to the poor guy who suffers misfortune, because he's done so through his own stupidity.Now, not all humor has its genesis in laughing at the other guy's plight, as there are a lot of humorous things that can be done through expressions, reactions and close calls of all sorts. But when you strictly base humor solely on the benign, or rather delegate the bad- taste humor because it involves cartoon violence to the black hats in the piece, then you're making a value judgment that the public is smart enough to figure out.People can get swept up in trends and hysteria, but to presuppose that children, or specifically all children, will mimic violent slapstick, is perhaps not unrealistic, but perhaps making too much of an assumption of the human character (regardless of age).And that's the real problem with this film. It tries to make up for a lack of humor by injecting tons of energy into every routine, every bit, every gag that's displayed for the audience. It thus feels like a quickly put together patch job of gags that were story boarded and retrofitted to a basic story and plot.The voice acting is fine, the sound effects and other facets of the production are first rate, but, as I say, we essentially have a neutered production. The small evil Shirley Temple like antagonist is over the top and cliché, the protagonist is cliché, pretty much the whole array of characters are from central casting. Even so Bakula and Guy do a respectable job of thesping the part, but they're hard pressed to carry a production that has other issues.To be honest it's not a production I'd take my kids to see (if I had any). Not because it's offensive or lacks morals, it's just not that good, and at times is so high energy as to be incomprehensible. Give it a whirl if you must, but watch at your own risk.An okay production, but nothing sterling. "},{"Title":"Nothing's gonna stop me from loving this movie","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Nothing's more of a nostalgic movie for me than Cats Don't Dance, the energetic animated musical of Hollywood, passion, and the pursuit of dreams that is the most criminally underrated movie I have ever seen in my life.We are introduced to Danny, a cat full of ambition and dreams of making it AS A STAR! He arrives in Hollywood and quickly meets the other wonderful cast of animals Tilly Hippo, Cranston Goat, T.W Turtle, later Woolly Mammoth, and another cat simply named Sawyer; who is not too pleased with Danny's dream-chasing, singing and dancing attitude. Shortly after the introduction to the others, he lands a spot on the latest movie Little Ark Angel starring America's Sweetheart, Lover of Children and Animals Darla Dimple who's pretty much a cross between Shirley Temple, Baby-Doll from the animated Batman, and a Disney villain. While filming the movie, Danny makes himself noticed much to the displeasure of Darla who shows her true colors as a spoiled little munchkin who again is as heinously evil as some of Disneys most evil villains. Which results in the calling of the gargantuan servant of Darla known as Max, which results in Max teaching Danny a lesson that I'm not gonna lie is actually pretty funny. After that happens, we find out why no one liked his little number and why Sawyer is so despondent toward Danny. We find out that Hollywood, for no clear reason, wants talented human actors and not talented animals. And the other characters we've met have talent that was wrongfully overlooked, Sawyer being both the most promising and seemingly the most broken of the group. But Danny, still wanting to follow his dream, tries to convince the others to do the same. The result the rest of the movie.If I took out the nostalgia, I would love Cats Don't Dance all the same. I love how fun it is, I love how sincere it is, but mostly I love how passionate and driven it is. Its not a flawless movie; some of the singing voices sound a bit odd when compared to the talking voices. Danny isn't THAT well developed but not enough that I think he brought the film down. But aside from a few nitpicks I truly do love it.The music is done by Randy Newman. And while I don't love Randy Newman, this is really good. The songs are both catchy and fit the moods appropriately. The orchestral work is impressive as well, fitting the 1930s Hollywood setting perfectly. The animation is fantastic too; offering a familiar Warner Bros. animation feel.Honestly, I love this movie. I love everything about it. It's great, fun to watch, memorable and very underrated. I love the characters, the music, the animation, the drama; but mostly the passion. Its serious nostalgia for me, and people should definitely watch it. "},{"Title":"But they're expected to put on a helluva show","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats Don't Dance has gone down in history as one of the biggest risks in animation yet. It is one of the few full length animated features not to bare the Disney name, yet comes off as one just as cheerful and safe for kids. Clearly, parents didn't believe so, or possibly they didn't hear about the film due to Turner Feature Animation's miserable marketing tactics, not to mention the competition of the re-release of a Star Wars movie and Disney's film Hercules.Because of all those factors, Cats Don't Dance was a monstrous bomb, all the more considering it was an animated film, which are always expected to gross at least double their budget, and it remains as a curious piece of history and nostalgia. It comes off as so cheery and genial, that as you watch it, the name Disney never comes to mind. It's in a league of its own, where pitch-perfect realism doesn't always come first, and fun and livelihood always lead the way. It's a unique experience.The story concerns Danny (voiced by Scott Bakula), a plucky and anxious cat who leaves his humble roots in Kokomo, Indiana to travel to Hollywood, where he can hopefully make it big as an actor. One roadblock, he's a cat, and Hollywood's places for cats are few and far between. He manages to get cast in a movie with Darla Dimple (Ashley Peldon), a spoiled, heavily-pampered child actress who turns maniacal and practically evil as soon as the cameras stop rolling.Along the way, the naive soul runs into Sawyer (Jasmine Guy), a beautiful, yet heavily pessimistic female cat, who Danny is immediately smitten with. Sawyer explains how Hollywood's attitude towards animals would seem inviting, when it is just morose and neglectful towards the idea of stepping outside the box. This sort of makes Cats Don't Dance's life come full circle. Think of it as Danny. He steps out of his natural roots to find fame in Hollywood, winds up getting the cold shoulder, until the inevitable happens and he is looked on with great satisfaction. Now think of the film's life. It stepped out of the cliché Disney light, was created and brought to life by a studio no one knew, was ignored pretty much by everyone during its initial release, yet is looked on as a classic animated gem by many in the present. If serendipity could talk...The animation is beautiful. Rambunctiously neat, and very, very eye-appealing. Not to continue to rain on the film's parade, but at this point in time (1997), we were already met with the genius of Pixar and their groundbreaking film Toy Story. We knew all of what animation can do, and once you see what seems to be the best, do you have much interest in the rest? Regardless, this is sort of what I adore about Cats Don't Dance; it plays by its own rules. It's so lightweight and non-intrusive that it doesn't seem to care it's not on par with other pictures of its own league. It isn't heavy-handed or on a moral rush. It's just looking for a good time.One thing I enjoyed were the musical numbers, which are delightfully sung, wonderfully crafted, and beautifully choreographed with such kinetic energy. I believe the more exposure or knowledge you have with Hollywood, cinema, and how the big guys manipulate the little ones, the more you'll be inclined to enjoy Cats Don't Dance. It's one of the cheeriest films I've seen all year.Voiced by Scott Bakula, Jasmine Guy, Natalie Cole, Ashley Peldon, John Rhys-Davies, Kathy Najimy, and Don Knotts. Directed by Mark Dindal. "},{"Title":"See you in the movies!","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cat's Don't Dance may not be what most movie buffs would call a classic cartoon. It's not made by a big name company but it is a good movie nonetheless.Danny is a cat who wants to make it big in Hollywood. He leaves his town of Kokomo, Indiana to head for big dreams. Once he gets to Hollywood he makes his debut in a film that mostly belongs to the cute but really evil Darla Dimple. Danny tests her patience by not saying his line but rather singing it. She is not happy and reminds him that he needs to know his place in the film as an animal.Danny is determined to make a name for himself and his friends Sawyer, Tilly, Cranston, Pudge and a few others. Sawyer a female cat tries to persuade him out of trying to have dreams because he is only an animal and they are treated differently and aren't given the bigger roles in films. After awhile he gets all his friends and the animals in Hollywood to realize that they are worth it. Darla doesn't like what she sees and decides that she is going to try and sabotage the animals from starring in any future films. She tells Danny that he needs to put on a show and make it big and loud. Danny however doesn't realize that it is a scam. Darla ruins their show and Danny and all the other animals get kicked out of the studios.Danny decides to head back home but after he is on a bus and sees Pudge being pushed around he comes up with a plan that helps his friends and the other animals to make it back into the filming industry. He makes it big for himself and wins back his support from his friends and ends up winning Sawyer's affection. Darla ends up being defeated and you see her having to put up movie posters at the very end of the credits. Cat's Don't Dance may not be big on special effects but it doesn't have to be. It sells itself with a great story and anybody who watches it probably won't be let down. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Movie","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Anyone remember 'Singin' in the Rain'? Well, this is quite the little knockoff.. a great one. Musical actors take part in an animated feature almost as great as the old movie. But with a spoiled child actress and cats.Danny is a naive but friendly cat who is picked to star in Darla Dimples' Lil' Ark Angel, quite similar to the Shirley Temple movies and star. This cat becomes baffled by his line of Meow while a child (who's name is Darla) comes in and wreaks havoc. Her main plot is the cause trouble and lies about liking animals.The script is superb, much like something Pixar would make. The animation is good. The acting was magnificent. Ashley Pendon's voice was great and I loved her singing voice... Lindsey did great. And the characters' voices to the animals sounded and reminded me much like the ones in 'All Dogs Go To Heaven'. Not to mention, the music was great and my favorite has to be the final song.This movie will bring an instant smile to faces of children and adults alike. It will reminisce childhood memories and will never be forgotten. Always remember that 'Cats Don't Dance' is a heartwarming and lighthearted movie that will be in your heart... young or old. "},{"Title":"Funny and Cute","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This used to be one of my favourite movies when I was about 5 or 6. I haven't seen it in nearly 8 years now, but I ended up watching it one day in parts on YouTube, and remembered why I fell in love with it as a small child.The story follows Danny, a cat with big dreams of making it big in movies. When he goes to Hollywood, convinced that it'll only take him a week to land a huge contract, Danny gets a small part in a Noah's Ark-type film as Cat #1. The movie stars Darla Dimple, a fictitious Shirley Templesque child star who is as nauseatingly cute as she is evil and ambitious. When Danny tries to ham up his one line (Meow) to the point of messing up the shot, Darla loses it and begins to scheme to destroy his dreams and make sure no animal ever gets into a Hollywood movie again.Cat's Don't Dance is a funny, adorable, and entertaining movie for kids and adults. The voices are all pitch perfect for their rolls, especially Ashley Peldon/Lindsay Ridgeway as Darla Dimple (they made the insane little shrew hilarious and deliciously wicked all at once). There are many likable and fun characters abounding (for example Sawyer, the feline secretary who Danny helps break out of her shell), as well as songs that will have even the biggest person tapping their toes (two wonderful ones are Big and Loud - sung by Lindsay Ridgeway as Darla - and Nothing's Gonna Stop Us, the closing number).Definitely still one of my favourite cartoons of all time. "}{"Title":"I Am An Angle","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was a very funny movie for you and your family to see, this movie is filled to burst out laughter. This movie deserves to have three stars because the director gave us what we wanted to see,a funny musical about animals. I love the little critters and the animals, because at the end he showed a funny scene were all the animals were dressed up like the movies in this century like Batman and Robin,Casablanca,and Teenage Muntant Ninja Turtles. And great when the director added Miss Dimple and her Butler Max,without them what will be the mean but funny part in this film.This a movie that you will want to see, so go watch it. "},{"Title":"Fun romp","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" It may not be a classic but Cats Don't Dance is a fun time killer.PLOT - It's the 1930s and no animal has been able to reach the star status of their human counterparts Clark Gable, Cary Grant, Joan Crawford, etc. The only thing animals are wanted for is to say animal lines and do stereotypical animal things.Then from Kokomo, Indiana comes the naive, humble but ambitious Danny (Scott Bakula, throwing out a voice that is decades younger than he actually is and doing his own singing), a fast tapping tap dancer who dreams of being the cat version of Gene Kelly or Bing Crosby, so he comes to Hollywood to seek his fortune, only to find a town full of crushed souls and broken dreams. He also runs afoul of Darla Dimple (speaking voice Ashley Peldon, singing voice Lindsay Ridgeway), a demented, narcissistic child star who is basically an evil version of Shirley Temple but pretends to be the sweet little girl image that the public has of her, which includes loving animals when she really despises them, when he tries to upstage her during the filming of Little Ark Angel. Did I mention Darla's giant man-servant/hit man/enforcer Max? Despite the set backs, Danny becomes determined to lead an animal revolt that will lead his fellow animal performers to stardom.Along the way, Danny befriends Pudge, a chubby little penguin just trying to get by, Cranston the crotchety goat (voice of Hal Holbrook), Frances the Marlene Dietrich style fish (voiced by the late Betty Lou Gerson, who also voiced Cruella Deville in the original 101 Dalmations), a warm hearted hippo woman named Tillie (voice of Kathy Najimy), TW Turtle (the late Don Knotts), the mentor figure Woolie the Mammoth (John Rhys-Davies), and of course, the sassy, cynical love interest Sawyer (spoken by Jasmine Guy, sung by Natalie Cole).All of them had dreams of being song & dance stars, as Woolie explains to Danny. Tillie wanted to sing and dance, Cranston and Frances were a dancing duet, TW had dramatic pirate of penzance in his past, while Woolie himself is actually a very skilled piano player and had hopes of writing music for the movies, but instead he became the Mammoth Studios mascot, putting on giant tusks and blowing his snout at the beginning of every Mammoth Studio picture, much like the roaring lion at the beginning of the MGM films (he probably lucked out better than the others did in that respect). We even learn that Sawyer too once dreamed of song & dance stardom, as she was quite a dancer herself and had what Woolie called the voice of an angel (though it's really more along the lines of Diana Ross); Woolie even thought that Sawyer would be the one to break through. Woolie instructs Danny that Hollywood will never appreciate animal actors enough to give them their time in the spotlight, but this only strengthens Danny's resolve and, the next day, Danny gets Woolie and Pudge to join him in rallying the other animals together and inspiring them to fight for their right to be stars; he even gets Sawyer in on the back alley boogie, luring her into a pleasant fantasy where she gets to show off her dance moves, but she quickly breaks loose from it and tells Danny that it'll never happen.What Danny doesn't know is that Darla is on to him and, fearing that Danny and his animal cohorts might threaten her stardom, she tricks Danny into believing that she'll help him and lets him use her sound stage to from Little Ark Angel to perform for studio head L.B. Mammoth (voice of George Kennedy). Danny then rallies his fellow animals together, taking Darla's advice to make it big & loud, and even gets Sawyer in on the act, still unaware of Darla's plot to destroy him. Darla KO's Pudge and then plays havoc with the special effects on the sound stage, resulting in a giant water mass spill out that engulfs both LB and the director Flanigan, leads to much mayhem on the studio lot and a fight between Sawyer & Danny. When the animals are all unceremoniously fired, Darla shows up to add insult to injury, exposing that she was the one who gave Danny use of the sound stage, making him even less popular with his already angry cohorts. Even Woolie tells Danny to just go home. The next night while Cranston, Frances, TW and Tillie lament their woes and blame Danny for ruining their already miserable careers, Sawyer takes to the rainy streets and sings of her own disillusionment with the industry and her confused feelings for Danny, which Tillie overhears and encourages her to go catch Danny before he leaves town. Danny, depressed and dejected over the calamity he has brought unto himself and his friends, miserably boards a bus back for Kokomo, leaving behind his hat for Sawyer to find and his list for how he would succeed, which leaves Sawyer tearful, heart broken and alone.But naturally Danny's resolve kicks back in and, with help from Pudge, he makes a desperate last ditch effort to break the barrier, by bringing his closest friends to the premiere of Darla Dimple's new film, where they sing and dance their hearts out, wowing the audience, and exposing Darla for the evil little thing that she is and destroying her career. From there Woolie, Tillie, TW, Pudge, Frances, Cranston, and of course, Sawyer & Danny, become big stars, headlining animal versions of Superman, Batman & Robin, Grumpy Old Men, The Mask, Beetle Juice, The Witches of Eastwick, and Singing In The Rain, among others.Surprisingly entertaining due to its unabashed good naturedness and breezy songs. Above average animation too. "},{"Title":"This is amazing!","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What else can I say? I've never seen an animated movie quite like this. The first time I saw the previews for this a long time ago, I thought this was really terrible... the thing is that I actually thought it would be bad when it was broadcasted for the first time on regular tv... there's another end to a misconception for me. This has got to be the single most amazing cartoon musical/comedy I've seen in a while. When I was finished watching it, I kinda thought to myself, If Danny had a dream to fuel him, I could learn from that! For the final note, I give this movie a 10 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest animated movies! Period!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The animation is startlingly spectacular! Watch the ally scene and the animals when they start to dance to the music! It's breathtaking ride you won't want to end! The villain is so evil she's funny, and Max the Butler gets the best line How does the kitty cat go? The end sequence on stage is extraordinary! To the person who said the time isn't dated, the time is 1939, because Gone with the Wind is coming out in theaters in the beginning! For 30s and 40s movie lovers like me, it's a wonderful treat you'll latch onto and never let go! "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's better than any Disney movie I've recently seen in a while.  The little girl singing Big and Loud is terrific.  Just goes to show you that Warner Bros. can (and one day will) beat Disney in the animated movie sector. "},{"Title":"My cat gives this film a paws-up","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats Can't Dance is good animated family fare about the adventures of a Kokomo, Indiana feline. He goes to Hollywood to become an actor in films. The time period is never clarified, but the Los Angeles our hero arrives to is a facsimile of the thirties ; a thinly disguised L. B. Mayer runs Mammoth Studios, Clark Gable is the box office king, and Gone with the Wind and The Wizard of Oz play on local theater screens. Having been produced by Turner Pictures, I wonder if a promotional tie-in with that companies M-G-M library isn't afoot. Another Turner connection involves the animation, which resembles original Cartoon Network programming like 'Dexter's Lab'. The songs by Randy Newman are acceptable, but not up to Toy Story standards. 2.5 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite underrated films as a kid based on the 1930s in Hollywood","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cat's Don't Dance is a 1997 Warner Bros Family Entertainment animated film that tells the story of Danny(voice by and sung by Scott Bakula who was in Quantium Leap and he played Zachary Levi's father in the TV show Chuck)who dreams of going to Hollywood to pursue an acting career opposite Darla Dimple(voiced by Ashley Pendon)who is a big hit in Hollywood as she is a lover for animals...or is she?So Danny goes to Hollywood and meets other animals too including a grumpy goat,a fish,a hippo,a elephant who's name is Mammoth,a cute pengiun and a sassy cat named Sawyer(voiced by Jasmine Guy and sung by Nat King Cole's daughter Natalie Cole). What I like about this film is the songs as every song fits this movie perfectly. In some animated films the songs don't actually suit at all,like in Disney's Hercules as the songs in that film were all over the place,here in Cat's Don't Dance all the songs had a Broadway/Jazz sound to them,and who is the composer for this film,why its Randy Newman (who also did music for Monster's Inc,all the Toy Story films and of course The Princess & The Frog).Overall I found this film very entertaining and enjoyable to watch. I still have this on VHS ever since I was a kid,and I still watch it. The animation is vivid,the charcthers are likable,some of the songs are sorta forgettable but hey you gotta love them all the same. Also I love how they make fun of the 1930s genre and have films that Warner Bros made in the 1990s or 80s like The Mask,Batman & Robin,Grumpy Old Men,Beetlejuice and many more. Its a shame that its such an underrated film like Swan Princess,another film I love to watch all the time. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Darla Steals the Show!","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Sure, the animals were kinda cool, but, if you ask me, the REAL STAR (she'd certainly be pleased to hear me say that) was Darla Dimple. A beautiful little blonde girl, who, for some reason, was the VILLAIN. That may or may not have been for the better, because at least she certainly was far from completely saccharine (i.e. Anne-Marie in All Dogs Go to Heaven or Dot in A Bug's Life) as she may have been if she were a good guy... Still, I couldn't help but feel sorry for her, maybe because she's just a kid, or maybe because she resembles (in terms of her appearance ONLY, and NOT personality) the sweet girl, short in stature, curly blonde hair, at my school, Zoezonna Brennan. Unlike Darla, who was cool and all, Zoe's just a nice girl (FAR from sickeningly sweet, though) and makes me feel love and compassion towards her.Anyways, a VERY interesting and satisfying film! 9/10 stars! You ARE the STAR, Darla Dimple! (AND YOU, ZOE, EVEN MORESO!!!!) ) "},{"Title":"A fast-paced movie with a deliciously devilish antagonist","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm definitely not familiar with Mark Dindal, but kudos to him for making one heck of an animation. It's rather different, kiddish and yet there's stuff for adults too, it's fast-paced and yet there's some slow scenes, and all together it just ridiculously fun. Together with its cast of famous actors which includes John Rhys-Davies (Gimli in LOTR), Don Knotts (Andy Griffith Show, of course), and even Betty Lou Garson (the original Cruella De Vil). WARNING if you want to see this movie, brace yourself for major Wackiness.The story follows optimistic&#x97;sometimes air-headed&#x97;Danny the Cat who journeys to Hollywood from Kokomo to fulfill his dream of becoming a star, but his ambition is trampled by the pernicious vile child star Miss Darla Dimple. Danny finds a band of unlikely dreamers consisting of a grumpy grandpa goat, a sweet yet over-social hippo, a Bette Davis style Fish, a pudgy penguin kid who just loves to eat (yeah, and he's pretty annoying too), a poor turtle who relies on his fortune cookies to determine his day, and last but not least Sawyer the cat who believes her dreams have been completely crushed. Together the wacky dreamers try to prove even different species can be stars, before the lovely&#x97;more like loathsome&#x97;Darla smashes their dreams to smithereens.Believe me; so many loony scenes are in this movie Tilly Hippo and her ridiculous introducing method, the unbelievable flooding of Hollywood, any scene with Max and Darla, that eccentric director and many more! I just found it way too wacky when I was little.The intro cast was a great opening (and those jiving moles!). This is a 90's film so the animation is so-so and slightly incomplete, though I loved how they did Sawyer. This is a kid's flick so everything was berzerkly colorful. The voice acting was great for an animation like this (especially Ashley Peldon as Darla). The dialogue was simple and clean. Almost every scene is musical, there's music going on every where! the songs themselves gave such a good vibe. I Got Rhythm was very nice with a those animals!I rated this movie a 6 star because it's a fair animation, sincere movie; it's a little TOO fast-paced though (75 minutes, people!) and it's unrealistic, of course. The message is the usual fallow your dreams. Like I said before, brace yourself for wackiness. "},{"Title":"Overall, a nice animated family feature, but one with an almost unbearable antagonist","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This does not appear to be one of the most widely recognized animated films of the 90's, but I did see it once on video during that decade. I guess that would have been shortly after the movie came into stores. It definitely wasn't up there with certain other animated films I saw in my childhood, but I think I found it fairly entertaining. After that, I didn't see Cats Don't Dance again until this year, I think just a few weeks ago. It seemed to be well-liked among those who have seen it, so I wasn't expecting a lacklustre effort. However, I didn't like it much during what was my first viewing in a long time. A few weeks later, I've already given it another try. I think it did improve with this viewing, but a lot of it still didn't really impress me.Danny is an ambitious cat who leaves his hometown of Kokomo, Indiana to pursue a career in Hollywood. Very soon after arriving at his destination, he gets a role in a film with Darla Dimple, a child star who is known as America's Sweetheart, Lover of Children and Animals. He is very excited about his role, until he learns that all he gets to say is meow and he doesn't get to dance and sing. When Danny tries to spice up his role, he soon sees Ms. Dimple's true colours and how misleading her on screen persona really is! She is actually a horribly spoiled, selfish, mean-spirited brat with a giant valet named Max, who makes sure she always gets her way! It turns out that animals only get to be extras in Hollywood, so Danny begins to work with other animals to try and change this and show Tinseltown their true talent, but Ms. Dimple knows this could threaten her career if they succeed, so she is determined to foil their plan! When the film begins, we soon see that the animation is nicely colourful and pleasing to the eye, but for at least a while, the movie is a little too fast-paced, making it less effective than it could be. There are some fairly funny parts early on, such as Danny accidentally slamming Sawyer's (a cat secretary in Hollywood who becomes a major part of the story) tail in a door, and the look she gives him, but at this point, I had trouble really getting into the film. It isn't long before Darla Dimple, the antagonist, comes into the story. This character is clearly supposed to be funny, but she didn't amuse me very much. I did not care for her loudness, faces, etc. After a while, the film improves. It eventually didn't seem quite as fast to me and the story got more intriguing, though Ms. Dimple continues to be hardly bearable in the scenes she appears in. The animal characters are generally likable, and viewers can easily find themselves rooting for them. The movie also has an interesting premise and some funny moments, even if there aren't as many good laughs as there are supposed to be.There are times when I'm not 100% sure about my rating for a movie, and this is one of those cases. I most definitely can't say I absolutely LOVE this movie like many others do, but feel I could be giving it a seven out of ten instead of a six. In fact, without the antics of the Darla Dimple character, I might not have any reason to give Cats Don't Dance a rating any lower than seven. It seems most people who have seen this 1997 animated feature like it more than I do, but I can still understand its appeal, as it certainly does have its charm. I wouldn't complain if it were to ever gain more recognition. The pace around the beginning, the antagonist, the film's songs which are not exactly bad but not the most memorable numbers for an animated musical, and maybe occasionally some other problems (minor ones) make the movie lose points, but there's also a lot to like. While this film can't match a number of other full-length animations made in the same decade, you could still easily find that it's good family fun. "}{"Title":"Plesantly surprising for a WB film","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought this was a welcome departure from the overbudgeted Disney films of the time.  Instead of relying on flashy, new special effects, this movie relies on it's wit, charm, tight storyline, and music (the most surprising, usually WB scores are terrible.)  I am sick of animated films lacking in good scores and feeling like something pasted together by a two-year-old when relating to plot.  Disney has forgotten the roots of animation, what Walt built the company on.  Cats Don't Dance has brought back some of the well-drawn, non drawn out animation that made the business back in the day.  I loved this film and it is too bad it had a terrible box office run.  Ironically enough, I viewed this Warner Brother's film on the Disney channel and now suggest at least a rental. "},{"Title":"Worth a look... maybe even a buy","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I recently saw this movie on the Disney Channel.  Kind of odd, seeing it's a WB film on further research...  But that's OK.  I was expecting a cookie cutter display of dismal numbers and dry, unimaginative drama.  What I found, though, was engaging characters intertwined in an imaginative interpretation of show business.  The musical numbers didn't disappoint, and I also find myself humming the tunes in my head.  The lower-quality animation really fits into the picture, for I really dislike big-budget films of any kind that just flex their animation muscle (present example - Dinosaur by Disney.)  In fact, I like hand-drawn animation that flows the way WB animation does instead of the flowering, slower-moving (for lack of better descriptive) characters of Disney.  I usually avoid American animation that had a dismal run, seeing I am a teen with a taste for anime, but this film surprised me.  I suggest at least renting this show. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised...","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I admit guiltily that I avoided this movie for years, mainly because for some bizarre reason I associated it mentally with The Horror That Is Rock-A-Doodle.   A friend finally badgered me into sitting through it, however, and I'm glad she did!  I can understand why is was not a huge success -- it had more the air of a TV movie than a big-screen production in places -- and the songs weren't very memorable, but darn it, the characters/plot were quite engaging and it really was rather fun.  While not quite on the level of Anastasia or Iron Giant, like The Swan Princess and Quest For Camelot this movie did not deserve the trouncing it received in theaters.  Give it a shot.  You'll adore Danny & Sawyer.  "},{"Title":"very entertaining movie","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  while better than most animated movies from another certain mouse company...it's not as good as some of their best movies(i.e toy story) this still has good amimation,interesting people/animals and good songs....i would recommend this to all cartoon lovers! -dave "},{"Title":"Cats Don't Dance One of the most successful Warner Bros movies of all time","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Of all the movies they saw, Cats Don't Dance is one of my favorite movies of all time. If you want to compare this to my other cartoon favorites done by various studios such as Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean, Pixar's Toy Story, PDI's Antz, and such, then you can count on this movie because ever since not only it hit theaters in 1997, but it also hit the box office's jackpot. As we all know, Cats Don't Dance was produced by the section of the Warner Bros Studio Lot, Warner Bros Animation Studios, you know, the company that did the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies cartoons, Tiny Toon Adventures, Taz-Mania, Batman The Animated Series, Animaniacs, and some M. C. Skat Kat cartoons such as Opposites Attract and Skat Strut, which both co-starred Paula Abdul as a live actor. Same went for Space Jam, and Yakety Yak, Take it Back.Directed by Mark Dindal (of Disney's Chicken Little), Cats Don't Dance tells the story of an orange tabby cat named Danny (voiced by Rob Paulsen of Pinky and the Brain), who lived in Kokomo, Indiana in the '30s/'40s. You can call him Daniel, if you want to. Being a native of Kokomo, Danny had a talent for singing and dancing (ever since when he was a little kitten, his daddy taught him how to sing and dance), and he had only one dream to go to Hollywood to become a genuine movie star.So Danny heads off to Hollywood, and when Danny gets in a local building with a room saying Farley Wink Animal Actors Agency, he gets welcomed and introduced by a hippopotamus named Tillie (voiced by Kathy Najimy of King of the Hill), an old goat of an old goat named Cranston (voiced by Jeff Bennett), a turtle named T. W. (voiced by Don Knotts of The Incredible Mr. Limpet and Chicken Little), and a fish named Frances (voiced by Betty Lou Gerson of 101 Dalmatians). Danny then went into Farley Wink's office, and Farley Wink (voiced by Frank Welker) asks him if he can be in the next Darla Dimple movie, which is a Noah's Ark movie called Lil' Ark Angel, and starred Darla Dimple (voiced by Ashley Peldon), a America's sweetheart lover of children and animals. Farley Wink's secretary and Danny's girlfriend, Sawyer (voiced by Paula Jai Parker, best known for the voice of Penny Proud's mother, Trudy Proud in The Proud Family), a white cat, was being asked by Farley Wink to be in the movie with Danny, and to be nice around him. She agreed with Mr. Wink, and Danny and Sawyer went and entered Mammoth Pictures, a studio lot that parodies the MGM Studios, where Lil' Ark Angel is being filmed. I will tell you the rest of this movie's story, but you will find out.The backgrounds are done in live action (a la Who Framed Roger Rabbit) and cartoon sequences, including scenes involving Darla's Manor, Farley Wink's office, Woolie's trailer, L. B. Mammoth's office, etc. The costumes and gags they used in this movie are interesting to me even when something comes along, including Egyptian outfits that Danny and Sawyer are in, and they will be used in the Dance of the Hours sequence in the version/variation of the Disney cartoon Fantasia with Bugs Bunny as The Sorceror's Apprentice (and it's going to be distributed by Warner Bros!) that I'm working on in the future, even when they are in those clothes.There were also characters besides the aforementioned ones I'm talking about, including live actors, and other characters that are cartoon, including the supporting characters of the comical and humorous film director, Flanigan (voiced by Rene Auberjonois), elephant Woolie (voiced by Jim Cummings), and the founder of Mammoth Pictures, L. B. Mammoth (voiced by George Kennedy). There are also minor characters in there, including a gorilla that sounds a lot like Daffy Duck. Oh! And be sure to spot caricatures of celebrities throughout the movie including Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy, Clark Gable, W. C. Fields, and such.Although the characters sang some of the the songs in the movie, Randy Newman (of Yakety Yak, Take it Back) composed the music for those songs, as well as wrote the lyrics and produced them, notably Little Boat On The Sea, Animal Jam Session, and such. Natalie Cole (of Yakety Yak, Take it Back) can be heard as the singing voice of Sawyer as she sings two songs for the movie, Tell Me Lies and Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now.Even when Cats Don't Dance won several Awards, Emmys, and Nominees, it deserves various treatments, including a couple sequels, spin-offs, and TV series to follow this one.See you in the movies! "},{"Title":"starring Donald O'Catt?","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" CATS DON'T DANCE was pulled from cinema pre release in 1998 in Australia and the film dropped from schedules. Trailers went to cinemas but the film did not. The 3D-Pixar boom was upon us and flat cartoons like this were shelved or given modest releases like the Brad Pitt voiced SINBAD or the Disney TREASURE PLANET. I can see why CATS DON'T DANCE deserves a place on the kid vid shelf in most family homes BUT I do have one reservation the epileptic editing and the whole screaming frenetic pace of the whole 'toon is enough to send even the mildest sedated viewer reaching for the pause button just to catch a breath. As a 30s WB styled Hollywood satire and a homage to GENE KELLY, (really Donald O'Connor/ or Catt?) CATS DD is good fun and smart comedy. The adults who can keep up will find clever references and the kids enjoy the animals and songs - all of which are very good. It is the demented pace that must frighten some parents into shutting the thing off and taking a breather. The opening credits are great fun...then the madness and screaming starts. It is like the drunken pink elephants scene from DUMBO stretched to 75 minutes with Shirley Temple jokes trowled on to it.. and served up in pink and green. CATS DON'T DANCE deserves a remake as a PIXAR style 3D feature and slowed down so we can REALLY enjoy all its great moments. As it is now, well, it is like being beaten up with a colour chart while a gramophone plays on 88 not 78. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but worth seeing","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The plot is thin, the music is wildly uneven (sometimes near-perfect, sometimes painful), Scott Bakula is beyond bland as the hero -- but the villains are fabulous (both acting and art), and almost compensate for the triteness of the good guys.What makes the film worth seeing are the sections where the animation cuts loose at its best it has the amphetamine-rush energy, deadpan self-mockery, and delicious visual wit of Chuck Jones's work. If you like animation and aren't a slave to anime, you'll enjoy the film (especially once you encounter the villainy).The very factors that make the film worth seeing by adult animation fans work against it as a kids' movie, though -- there are many visual references to classic Warner Brothers work (not just Chuck Jones), and these may seem tedious or irrelevant to kids who don't know the classic WB stuff. "},{"Title":"A fast-paced movie with a deliciously devilish antagonist","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm definitely not familiar with Mark Dindal, but kudos to him for making one heck of an animation. It's rather different, kiddish and yet there's stuff for adults too, it's fast-paced and yet there's some slow scenes, and all together it just ridiculously fun. Together with its cast of famous actors which includes John Rhys-Davies (Gimli in LOTR), Don Knotts (Andy Griffith Show, of course), and even Betty Lou Garson (the original Cruella De Vil). WARNING if you want to see this movie, brace yourself for major Wackiness.The story follows optimistic&#x97;sometimes air-headed&#x97;Danny the Cat who journeys to Hollywood from Kokomo to fulfill his dream of becoming a star, but his ambition is trampled by the pernicious vile child star Miss Darla Dimple. Danny finds a band of unlikely dreamers consisting of a grumpy grandpa goat, a sweet yet over-social hippo, a Bette Davis style Fish, a pudgy penguin kid who just loves to eat (yeah, and he's pretty annoying too), a poor turtle who relies on his fortune cookies to determine his day, and last but not least Sawyer the cat who believes her dreams have been completely crushed. Together the wacky dreamers try to prove even different species can be stars, before the lovely&#x97;more like loathsome&#x97;Darla smashes their dreams to smithereens.Believe me; so many loony scenes are in this movie Tilly Hippo and her ridiculous introducing method, the unbelievable flooding of Hollywood, any scene with Max and Darla, that eccentric director and many more! I just found it way too wacky when I was little.The intro cast was a great opening (and those jiving moles!). This is a 90's film so the animation is so-so and slightly incomplete, though I loved how they did Sawyer. This is a kid's flick so everything was berzerkly colorful. The voice acting was great for an animation like this (especially Ashley Peldon as Darla). The dialogue was simple and clean. Almost every scene is musical, there's music going on every where! the songs themselves gave such a good vibe. I Got Rhythm was very nice with a those animals!I rated this movie a 6 star because it's a fair animation, sincere movie; it's a little TOO fast-paced though (75 minutes, people!) and it's unrealistic, of course. The message is the usual fallow your dreams. Like I said before, brace yourself for wackiness. "},{"Title":"Fast-paced, frantic animation effort...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  1st watched 7/29/2001 - 4 out of 10 (Dir-Mark Dindal) Fast-paced, frantic animation effort by Ted Turner's feature animation group plays a lot like tv cartoons and leaves a lot to be desired in the area of likeable characters, but definetly has extremely unlikeable villains.  I'm not even sure why the kids would like this movie because there are so many references  to old movie stars that kids know very little or nothing about. Mediocre effort at best despite raves on the box comparing it to Disney efforts like Aladdin and Lion King.  Don't let this fool you -- there is no comparison in story or quality.  "}]