[{"Title":"Oh man, greatest movie of all time.","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"52 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This is up there with Chairman Of The Board(1998) starring none-other than Carrot-Top!  This is the funniest movie of 1999.  I love this movie.  When a weak 20lb baby can beat up a fully grown adult, you know it's going to be a great show.  I'm so glad this movie was made that I saw it four times in the theater, and as soon it came out, got it on DVD.  Greatest show ever. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Family Movies I Have Ever Seen!.","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"50 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Two scientists, Dr. Elena Kinder (Kathleen Turner) and Dr. Heep (Christopher Lloyd), use genius-baby studies to fund BabyCo's theme park Joyworld. According Dr. Kinder's Research, babies are supposed to possess vast, universal knowledge and speak a secret yet impossible-to-translate baby pre-language called Babytalk. At age two, however, the knowledge and language are lost as the babies cross over by learning how to talk. Most of the babies that were raised in Dr. Kinder's vast, underground research facility were adopted from the Pasadena orphanage, transformed into geniuses through use of the Kinder Method, and then used in experiments to decipher the language used by the baby-geniuses.One mischievous toddler, Sylvester (AKA Sly), makes repeated attempts to escape Dr. Kinder's research facility and one night, Sylvester goes into a dirty diaper truck and he actually succeeds. The next morning, Sylvester does not expect is to run into his twin, Whit, in a mall playground. Although Sylvester and Whit share a telepathic bond, they have no idea of each other's existence. While the guards from Dr. Kinder's research facility capture Whit, mistake him for Sylvester, and take him back to Dr. Kinder's research facility, Sylvester is taken home by Whit's adopted mother, Robin (Kim Cattrall), who is Dr. Kinder's niece. After Dr. Kinder is Horrified that Whit and Sylvester switched at the mall, she decides to do a cross evaluation on Sylvester and Whit. However, when she comes to Dan Bobbin's Place, she realizes that Dan Bobbin can understand babies. After the attempts to retrieve Sylvester fail, Dr. Kinder decides to move the research facility to Lichtenstein So that they can transform Whit into becoming a genius thanks to him getting bred by the Kinder Method (Thus erasing his memories about his foster parents, foster brothers and foster sisters) and use him as an experiment to crack the code to Babytalk.The babies at Bobbin's place hypnotize Lenny (Dom DeLuise), the bus driver to drive to Dr. Kinder's research facility. Once at the research facility, Sylvester goes to the control room to set the robots from the theme park on the lab scientists. When the Bobbins return home, their natural daughter Carrie tells her father that the children are in Dr. Kinder's research facility. At the end of the fight Dr. Kinder captures Whit and takes him to the helicopter pad on the roof. Robin and Dan chase them to the roof, where Dr. Kinder reveals that she and Robin are not related, and that Robin was adopted at age two. After Dr. Kinder got arrested by the police, Sylvester and Whit come together on the roof to cross over.Dan and Robin adopt Sylvester. Dan is still curious of the secrets of life, but as the twins have crossed over they no longer know those secrets. Carrie, their sister, doesn't reveal anything (just gives her dad a sly smile) because adults aren't meant to know their secrets.Baby Geniuses Is So Funny,Quite Amusing & Impressive.Undoubtedly it is one of the best family movies I have Ever Seen. "},{"Title":"An Under-rated Great Family Movie.","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"33 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Wow what an excellent movie!. I could not believe why it has been extremely under-rated. It is so amusing,funny and witty. Critics are sometimes narrow-minded and unfair in their reviews. Most kids all over the world will enjoy watching a fantastic comedy movie with superb action and great cinematography.Plot of Baby Geniuses Two scientists, Dr. Elena Kinder (Kathleen Turner) and Dr. Heep (Christopher Lloyd), use genius-baby studies to fund BabyCo's theme park Joyworld. According Dr. Kinder's Research, babies are supposed to possess vast, universal knowledge and speak a secret yet impossible-to-translate baby prelanguage called Babytalk. At age two, however, the knowledge and language are lost as the babies cross over by learning how to talk. Most of the babies that were raised in Dr. Kinder's vast, underground research facility were adopted from the Pasadena orphanage, transformed into geniuses through use of the Kinder Method, and then used in experiments to decipher the language used by the baby-geniuses.One mischievous toddler, Sylvester (AKA Sly), makes repeated attempts to escape Dr. Kinder's research facility and one night, Sylvester goes into a dirty diaper truck and he actually succeeds. The next morning, one things Sylvester does not expect is to run into his twin, Whit, in a mall playground. Although Sylvester and Whit share a telepathic bond, they have no idea of each other's existence. While the guards from Dr. Kinder's research facility capture Whit, mistake him for Sylvester, and take him back to Dr. Kinder's research facility, Sylvester is taken home by Whit's adopted mother, Robin (Kim Cattrall), who is Dr. Kinder's niece. After Dr. Kinder is horrified that Whit and Sylvester switched at the mall, she decides to do a cross evaluation on Sylvester and Whit. However, when she comes to Dan Bobbin's place, she realizes that Dan Bobbin can understand babies. After the attempts to retrieve Sylvester fail, Dr. Kinder decides to move the research facility to Lichtenstein, so that they can transform Whit into becoming a genius thanks to him getting bred by the Kinder Method (thus erasing his memories about his foster parents, foster brothers and foster sisters) and use him as an experiment to crack the code to Babytalk.The babies at Bobbin's place hypnotize Lenny (Dom DeLuise), the bus driver to drive to Dr. Kinder's research facility. Once at the research facility, Sylvester goes to the control room to set the robots from the theme park on the lab scientists. When the Bobbins return home, their natural daughter Carrie tells her father that the children are in Dr. Kinder's research facility. At the end of the fight Dr. Kinder captures Whit and takes him to the helicopter pad on the roof. Robin and Dan chase them to the roof, where Dr. Kinder reveals that she and Robin are not related, and that Robin was adopted at age two. After Dr. Kinder got arrested by the police, Sylvester and Whit come together on the roof to cross over.Dan and Robin adopt Sylvester. Dan is still curious of the secrets of life, but as the twins have crossed over they no longer know those secrets. Carrie, their sister, doesn't reveal anything (just gives her dad a sly smile) because adults aren't meant to know their secrets.Buy This DVD!. It is GREAT! "},{"Title":"All I can say is WOW!!","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"39 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" This movie changed my life. Right up there with American Psycho! There is so much symbolism in this movie I had to watch it thrice just understand it fully! When the one baby said Don't have a cow Basil I thought wow, a reference to The Last Temptation of Christ Humor, intense plot, this babies got it all! All I can say is WOW! If you like intense psychological thrillers than this movie is for you! The switching of the twins was a total plot twist! I had no idea that would happen! I even found myself mistaking the two Sly and Whit! Christopher Llyods best performance since the powerful Angels in the Outfield! Kathleen Turner delivers a moving and convincing performance as a tough woman trying to succeed in a mans world. You go girl! "},{"Title":"greatest movie ever","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"39 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Baby Geniuses is one of the best films that i have seen in a long time. It shows the true meaning of friendship and how we should not be racist. I laughed every second of it. This jokes were not stop from beginning to end. If you liked Old School or Wedding Crashers, then this movie is for you. It has that kind of humor that only these actors could pull off. I give it 10 out of 10 stars because its awesome, entertaining, and action packed. There are some scenes that are very emotional, but the rest is just complete laughs. If your looking for just a non stop thrill ride, and one of the best comedic performances of your life, then watch Baby Geniuses. "},{"Title":"Visually-striking Genre bender that's fun for all ages.","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Babies and film have a widely celebrated history together. One has to look no further than the 1989 opus, Look Who's Talking, and subsequent trilogy, to see how dynamic the formula translates to film. Ten years later, this breathtaking film was released. Baby Geniuses is just that a genius work of film starring babies. From the hilarious in-your-face comedy styling of triplet actors Leo, Myles, and Gerry Fitzgerald, to the haunting performance as the Cruella-Deville-inspired villain Dr. Elena Kinder, played by the venerated Kathleen Turner.I'll admit I was skeptical. When I embarked on my initial viewing, I had certain preconceived notions about the nature of babies and their intellect that hindered my enjoyment. After my third or fourth screening, I was hooked. It's all based on the ancient belief that children are born with advanced conceptions of the universe that are lost by the time they enter into the adult world. This long-held belief by many Eastern religions has been shunned and avoided in film for decades. Baby Geniuses, at its heart a social film about the nuclear family and child slavery, confronts the issue head on. This fearless script, endlessly researched, jumps from the actors mouths and rattles the viewer to their core. What begins as an interesting piece of humorous science fiction, ends with a death-defying, heart-pounding final scene as actor Peter MacNicol, who performs all of his own stunts in the film, dangles from the rope of a helicopter&#x97;every second ascending, every second pulling him from a safe landing &#x96; a phobia that millions of Americans struggle with day-to-day. I should also mention this film's ahead-of-it's-time visual effects. With limited technology at their disposal, seeing that production was completed in 1998, the team of computer animation experts were able to truly wow me with the babies' seamlessly advanced dexterity and speech. I'm not typically one to conjecture on movie magic and try to decode how certain shots were pulled off, but I do believe that they must have used some sort of puppets on strings and then digitally replaced the heads of the characters, specifically in the now famous John Travolta homage scene. The results are spectacular and will leave audience's 100 years from now scratching their heads at just how they were able to pull this off. The film is a fun, energetic, twisted baby comedy-thriller that will be revered for generations to come. A landmark accomplishment. Run, don't crawl, to go see Baby Geniuses. "},{"Title":"Get a grip!!!","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Reading through the comments, it's obvious to me that a lot of people just take movies too seriously and have NO imagination at all. People, I don't really think the people who made this movie really intended it to be taken so seriously. it's FICTION. I thought they did a really good job with the special effects. I don't think they could have casted a group of cuter kids (except maybe Sly and Whit). And I stayed entertained through the whole movie. Why? Because I know the difference between fact and fiction. "},{"Title":"Look Who's Talking meets Babe","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"32 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect when I saw this movie (I went to a sneak preview) and boy was I pleasantly surprised!  Forget Star Wars, this movie has some of the most amazing technology I have ever experienced!  And the concept of talking babies - it's funny!  I don't often leave a movie wanting more but I can't wait to see the sequel!  "},{"Title":"Excellent little silly comedy","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"34 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I find this movie funny. Maybe not side splitting, laugh out loud funny but it has a story and it has some good ideas and will tickle you a bit.I don't agree that it is the worst movie of any year as some have said. You have to watch it for what it is. It is simply a little story held together with some nice performances by some kids who probably did not know what they were doing most of the time. I expect it took a lot of editing time to make this happen with the right expressions and timing by the kids. The story holds together, although there is some fantasy in it and at least one hard to believe plot point. I have watched it twice. Once, some years ago and I accidentally watched it again tonight. I thought it was something else (a documentary on smart babies) And I made it all the way through, both times. I don't always make it through movies with no story or bad acting. But this has a good cast, including the twin baby leads (played by triplets), some good lines and it holds together.How bad could it be. There was a sequel and that means that it did make some money and there was some thought by someone that it would make more with the sequel. So take it for what it is. A cutesy little movie with a plot, some evil characters and some fantasy plot points to hold it together and it will be enjoyable. I do not work in the entertainment industry and certainly don't work for any entity connected with the movie but I do think it is not nearly as bad as most here say. Maybe they were embarrassed in some way and were afraid to admit liking it. Whatever! Just see it and judge for yourself. I think you will be pleased at the time spent.miKe "},{"Title":"Defintely not WORST","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"35 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I was shocked to see that it wass listed as so, We are very fond of it and the kids have a ball watching it. What is wrong with not being all blood or about car chases.Come on people, there is more to movies the special effects.Many should rewatch the movie and see the charm it truly holds.Any more movies are all about violence, while this has some of what could be termed mild violence, on the whole it is a film the whole family can enjoy. It is a movie that we will watch over and over. While I wouldnt reccomend making a sequel to it. I would reccomend to my friends and family to watch it. The idea that it is somethign that COULD really happen as far as babies being raised and studied, not the being so intelligent part. You just never know. Give it a chance it doesnt derserve to be on the WORST list. "}{"Title":"YOu've got to have babies to love this","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Maybe I'm addled, but I wasn't expecting Julius Ceasar and Laurence Olivier. This was hilarious, especially since I have a bunch of baby grandchildren, some in that 'before we cross over' area. Jung thinks we do have a collective unconscious, as there is some idea that pre-literate babies have knowledge that the conscious suppresses once they start to speak. This movie explores that premise, but in a hilarious over the top way. Katheryn Turner makes a great baby abuser, tyrant, villainess Cruella de Ville of the psychology world.Get it and let the little toddlers watch it. Watch THEIR expressions as the babies talk to one another. That's an event and a great interactive situation in itself. A lot easier than talking with a teen-ager.Just don't expect great writing or great acting and you won't be disappointed. The special effects are GRRRRRREAT, though. "},{"Title":"Comments on the baby movie","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"28 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I thought Baby Genii was a wonderfully sophisticated movie. Those babies are smarter than most people, no wonder all those jealous adults were upset with this movie. These verbally eloquent children were obviously cultivated for this movie; and one can only rave at the professional display of martial arts. Perhaps most people are not used to being babied but I'm sure these kids will be the future philosophers and stars of this planet. This show reflects the prenatal in everyone and our um-biblical connection to womb-ever it may concern. I thought dom Deluise was himself and the other actors were also quite convincing. The baby bashers who don't like this movie are probably a little too long in the tooth and may not actually recall the diaper decades. So, I'd like to recommend this show for all immature viewers of any stripe. "},{"Title":"Don't take it so seriously","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"29 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Look, when adults watch this it may seem stupid but I saw this movie when I was 5 and I loved it.Don't listen to what the critics say if you just want to watch a light hearted movie with your kids.I would fully recommend Baby Genuises.After all its a kids movie and kids will enjoy it.For Gods sake lighten up! If you agree with what I have written please comment, and rate higher.this movie does not deserve to be in the bottom 100 movies of all time.Jenny Ranson thank you for reading. "},{"Title":"What film was created for...","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"33 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" For those not initiated in the BG Fanclub, Baby Geniuses is one of the best movies ever filmed since the invention of motion pictures. Shunned by certain members of the Academy in 1999, Baby Geniuses failed to be nominated for any Oscars due to too many dried up, haggard, pro-choice members who were terrified of the children in this film. Otherwise, this movie would have been awarded the highest honors for its superb acting, special effects, direction, and choreography. Puttin' on the Ritz anyone? One day, like Citizen Kane, this movie will be respected for the absolute genius it is and take its place as best movie ever. Suck on that, Ebert. "},{"Title":"Kid proxy vote","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"33 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  First of all, let me just say that these comments are via my 7 year old son who didn't appreciate the fact that Baby Geniuses was on the list of the 100 worst movies -- and he figured that the vote tally was largely a reflection of adults who just didn't get it!According to him, Baby Geniuses is funny and he likes funny stuff.  So it's one of his favorite movies.  It's a good story. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"39 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I love both movies baby geniuses 1 and super-babies baby geniuses 2 I have both on DVD and their both excellent movies I watch both movies a lot and their both really great movies sly and whit and Carrie are awesome from baby geniuses 1 and in baby geniuses 2 kahuna is my favorite character both movies are the best that the movie industry ever came out with and I can't wait till they come out with baby geniuses 3 that movie is going to be totally awesome. every on just wait till baby geniuses 3 comes out I'm telling everybody it's going to be the sweetest movie that they ever come out with I hope they come out with three or four more baby geniuse movies after the third one. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, and stunningly true","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Before ever seeing this movie, I believed babies were capable of a lot more than what we're led to believe... for example, one baby starts crying in a crowded store, and suddenly babies are crying throughout the store. I dubbed this sympathy crying where they're all telling each other how bad they have it. (My mom didn't change my diaper for three hours! By the time I got her to change it, I had a really bad rash! Oh yeah? Well my dad forgot to feed me at six! I had to remind him for over a half hour before he finally brought in a bottle!)Since I've seen this movie, I find it much easier to get babies to smile, and usually give them a knowing look when they start to fuss up... only to have them stop! It's amazing!The movie is hilarious... Some people apparently think it's a little corny; these people are the same ones who can't watch a comedian without getting bored. The antics, and pure comedy, of this movie makes it worth a watch... I'm still trying to buy a copy; they say it's available, but try to find one for sale!EDIT I've since gotten a copy and can watch the Diaper Gang all I want! "},{"Title":"Smile!","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" You're watching a very cute, very family, very baby-safe motion picture with your family right now! What a clever idea - Baby Geniuses! Ha! I hope when I have a baby in the future that he is a genius when he's like 10 minutes old! Then, he'd go to elementary school when he's one, middle school when he's two, high school when he's three, and Harvard when he's four! Then he'll go to Cambridge when he's five, and at age six? He'll have all the time and money he could possibly want for all the cartoons and toys in the world! Man, if that dream became a reality...(And for most of you average joes, you'll wish that was the whole premise of this movie!) "},{"Title":"Oh, What a movie!!!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"35 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I know that many critics say this movie is bad, but they are must be watching with their eyes closed, do they not see the detail, and the amazing effects, not to mention the dead on acting from Lloyd and Turner. Technology like this has not been seen since Forrest Gump, with the mouth moving detail, it'll blow you're mind.  And what a story, it really shows what a little imagination and two separated twins can do.  Without even going into the Mall Montage I'll just say that this movie is a MUST SEE for any discriminating movie-goer. "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" What is wrong with you people!?!? This flick was a classic. Like you never imagined crime- fighting babies. The bottom 100 is so harsh. The film is about two evil doctors (Kathleen Turner, Christopher Lloyd) who discover that babies are born with knowledge of the world but forget everything when they cross over-learning how to talk, so they try to crack the language. The only thing that stands in their way is a baby named Sly, who escapes and makes their jobs harder. One day, Sly escapes and is switches with his twin brother, Wit, he never knew he had. Wit lives with a family where his parents (Peter MacNichol, Kim Cattrel) run a day care. With Sly on the outside, he trains his new fellow toddlers into exposing the evil ring and rescue the babies, while Wit tries to get revenge and break out! Does this sound bad? I think not! "}{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I don't understand why people hate it! I enjoyed it! I thought it was funny when the baby did the Disco dance. I laughed! And i though SOME of the effects were OK. Some were fake but I still enjoyed it. I would rate it a 4 1/2 out of 5, I thought it was a good family movie also. "},{"Title":"This movie is cute","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Anybody who is a mother will like this film, it is made to be cute, and that is what it is, cute. I love the babies, and the commentary, my two year old also loves it, he always asks for the baby movie, those who enjoy feeling good, will like this movie, the ending is warm. The teen in there yeah he was weird but look at him at the very end. I do highly recommend this to others, and moms who have other videos about to burn out because of over use and something different than the same old bright colored characters. This movie is sooooo cute. I look forward to seeing the sequel, I sincerely hope it is a feel good as this one. Rent this movie and enjoy!!! I hope this comment is useful to you -)Melissa "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"33 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Hello everyone, Now first of all i'd like to say that this movie was fabulous and all you reviewers should think so too. Even though most parts of the movie were obviously fake i still thought it was hilarious to see a group of toddlers talking like adults in a way that only they could understand.OK so yes the acting wasn't very good but who cares if it can make at least one person laugh then the director should be happy.I think that the movie reviewers are too old to be reviewing a movie of this kind. See this movie is for kids not for adults and adults probably won't understand it as well as kids.Next time choose reviewers who have humors!!! "},{"Title":"Silly, But Not That Stupid","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Baby Geniuses is a movie that can be best described as a live-action cartoon. It's certainly not cinematic perfection. Some people have said it's idiotic. But in my opinion, it's not that stupid. It's just very, very silly. You just have to enjoy this sort of movie to not hate it. There are several big name actors appearing; Kathleen Turner, Christopher Lloyd, Dom DeLuise and Kim (Sex and the City) Catrall. There aren't any memorable performances, though. The main characters are the babies, and their cartoonish hi-jinx (even if the hi-jinx doesn't always work). Baby Geniuses is clearly not for everyone. It's just for the few who can appreciate it. "},{"Title":"An interesting failure","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Christopher Lloyd, as usual, is in top form.  The rest of the cast is good as well, but that's not where Baby Geniuses fails. It's main problem is that the script just isn't funny enough.  The film has moments of zany humor and a few laughs, but nothing here is that memorable...except the interaction between babies. These kiddies really appear to be communicating with one another.  There are elements in this film that may help it achieve cult status in the near future.  As it stands now, Baby Geniuses is an interesting failure.  It entertained me until the end, but I just didn't laugh enough.  See it for the novel plot and Lloyd's over the top performance.  If you don't expect too much, this may be a guilty pleasure.A 7 or 6 out of 10 (depending on my mood) "},{"Title":"This Is Suppose To Be A Movie For Kids Not Adults.","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" i rate it 8/10 because if you think of it as a child and watch it you'll love it. i used to have the DVD when i was a little baby.. i used to watch it each day, because its a movie for kids, not adults.. so you can rate it as an adult. but you also gotta think about the kids side. its a fantasy for kids. its something funny to grow up on.its a great movie for kids, not that great for adults, but for kids its actually one of my favorite kids movie.. don't watch it. something called, if you got nothing nice to say, don't say anything at all! this movie was made for kids not adults, and the best idea is to buy it for your kids, not for you. "},{"Title":"In defense of this film... it's not THAT bad...","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I think people are coming down entirely too hard on this film.  Granted, it's no Look Who's Talking (1 or 2) or Baby's Day Out.  It wasn't intended to be.  It's a fantastical way to bring thinking babies back into the spotlight.  Look at how much we all love Rugrats, not to mention the aforementioned films.  The main goal is not about content, but the aww factor or just sheer enjoyment of cute toddlers.  This is not a film that should be picked apart.  It was more than likely made just for fun. Maybe babies don't know the secrets of the universe.  But it's something silly to think about.  Why argue about it? "},{"Title":"Pretty good film","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I liked this film for the most part.  I did think that the plot was kind of weird, but the babies were really cute.  I didn't like the fact that the two year old babies swore, but they did a great job on the special affects.  It was a pretty good movie.  7/10. "},{"Title":"Good fun, my kids liked it.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Kids found it entertaining, need I say more.  I laughed too.  Much better than bang bang shoot them ups; that we used to watch as kids.  The conceptual basis was delightful. The actors were convincing and I liked the gags.  "},{"Title":"Why so harsh ?","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" This movie was made in the late 90's which already should tell you it won't have the best film editing and all those details that make movies now. We can't expect it to be a film genius. The movie was made to entertain 10 years old kids who have a wild imagination. I for one think it's hilarious and love to relive the childhood memory watching it and believing it completely. I think everyone needs to calm down and be more fun, live a childhood. Before I even read the reviews on here, I was thinking this was an amazing movie about babies that just made you laugh so much. Reading a few of the reviews I still don't get the complaints, if you don't have an imagination or never saw this as a child you should just stay away from this movie and any like it. "}{"Title":"Cute","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I think everyone here is just being a little too critical.  It wasn't claiming to be greatest movie made since Gone With the Wind.  It was just a cute movie, plain and simple.  My daughter's and I laughed throughout the whole movie.  It's not that serious-Lighten up people! "},{"Title":"Wonderful for kids and adults!","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I loved Baby Geniuses.  This film is much better than Baby's Day Out, especially for the grown-ups.  Many of the jokes are aimed at the parents, although kids can understand them, too.  I would recommend Baby Geniuses to anyone who wants to have a ball watching adorable toddlers and laughing out loud. "},{"Title":"Slightly Surreal - Cute Comedy","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Although this movie was surreal in many respects I found it very funny. It is a cute movie about what a babies life might be like.  Don't take it too seriously, it does have its bad points.  For example, the beginning was a little like Toys, but it got better.  Overall it's a good movie to see if you are looking for an escape from reality.  Don't analyze and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Stupid? <yes> -> INTENTIONALLY!!!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"      I saw this movie on the big screen and had no opinion one way or another about it.  After 3 years, while searching for the work of Seth Adkins I came across this movie, and the many negative comments about it!  So, I rented and watched the video to see what I missed that so many found to give it such a bad rating and review. My findings are as followsThis movie is exactly what it is presented as!Please note the followingIt was presented as a comedy. (Is is not?). It was presented as a silly, slap-stick comedy (Is it not?). It was NEVER presented to be an academy award winner!I personally do not care for slap-stick humor, but I have to admit that this movie was somewhat enjoyable to me.    I respect Leonard Maltin's opinion about movies, as most of the time he is right on the money. However, this is one of the few times I have to disagree with him!      Why did Leonard Maltin give the movie Fire Down Below 2 stars and this one BOMB status??  Fire Down Below is supposed to be a serious action/drama and Leonard Maltin himself admits that it is Laughably bad!  However, here is a move that is supposed to be funny, silly, stupid (whatever way you put it), and he dumps all over it for being exactly what it was promoted to be!!!!!!!!!    No, I do not believe this is one of my favorite movies, but I believe that it has been given a very poor review, based upon many people who desire a more mature script.  It is as entertaining as just about any Slap-stick comedy I have ever seen!(Please note There is some language and (very little (almost un-noticeable)) sexual suggestion that you might find objectionable or object to allowing young children to witness)! "},{"Title":"Great Special effects and witty one liners from movies couldn't save this movie.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  The special effects, making the baby's talk among many things, among others made this film somewhat interesting. It got kind of boring after a while with all the One Liners from other movies... and the plot was non-existent. I gave this movie 6 of 10 stars because it was a good idea and had good effects. The plot and acting kept this from being an 8 or 9 star movie. "},{"Title":"Hey I love this movie","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I love this movie. It's so adorable. I don't know why people hate it so much I mean it's just adorable little babie running around ruling the world. What are all of you people scared of them? lol. I can't wait until the sequel. Yes they're making a 2nd one wether u want 2 c it or not. "},{"Title":"You people never get it!","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" See, I watched this movie when I was a kid and loved it. I watched it again today with the full knowledge that everyone hates it. The first review I saw on here, this guy was watching it with his girlfriend that he said broke up with him after seeing this. Was that a joke? This is a children's film! FOR KIDS! You can't compare it to Oscar winners, you can't even compare it to movies you like. Are kids shows actually crap or are you just not their target audience? Should Blue's Clues be compared to The Sopranos? Use your heads, people! This movie was cute. Nothing special, but certainly not the worst. My opinion either think like a child when you watch this or leave the criticism up to your kids. I thought that was obvious, guess not. "},{"Title":"I Liked It","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" This was a pretty good movie, in my opinion. There was good humor, kids could watch it and enjoy it, and the plot is easy to understand. I don't know why people here don't like it, but that's their opinions. While I don't hate the movie, it can be a tad bit unbelievable. But if it were believable, then it couldn't exist. A kid might enjoy this and so might some adults. Comparable to Rugrats, it isn't as good as that show, but is the next best thing. What kids might like are the babies in the movie that could be just like them if they were like that. Man, I am running out of things to say. But I am almost at ten lines! The point is watch the movie. Phew! I made it. "},{"Title":"Don't hate me, but I liked it!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I completely disagree with all of the comments about this movie!A friend and I were at the video store and bought this on a whim from the budget bin... I thought it looked bad enough that it would be a good laugh to watch it and make fun of it.  No one was more surprised than me to discover that it was actually decent!  It's a dark comedy not at all aimed at kids... I think it will become a great cult film like Return to Oz.  Admittedly it could have done without the numerous scenes depicting someone getting kicked, punched, or whacked in the family jewels, but other than that I had no major qualms with it at all.  At times I laughed out loud, and I at least don't remember being bored at any point.  What astonishes me most about the reviews of this films is that everyone seems to be taking it seriously!  The same people who say that the plot is ridiculous probably loved movies like Star Wars and Pulp Fiction.  This movie didn't claim to be based in fact, and in fairness it can't be evaluated as such.  Like any fiction film, it requires some suspension of disbelief.  The dialogue isn't any worse than any of the action movies it so clearly mocks, and as for the acting, well, Peter MacNichol plays himself as usual (not a bad thing!), Christopher Lloyd turns in a appropriately cartoonish performance, and I was actually pretty impressed with the toddlers' physical acting, considering their age.So, in summary, this isn't a 10 out of 10 but it isn't bad.  You won't enjoy it if you take it too seriously, and you certainly won't enjoy it if you only look for its faults (which too many people seem to be doing).  I give it thumbs up! "},{"Title":"A fun romp","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I didn't think this movie was as bad as apparently most IMDb viewers did. It's based loosely on a folk belief that babies really know everything, but forget it as they learn how to talk and therefore can never communicate the secrets of life to others. The film obviously is intended for an audience of very small children, and the characters and plot are all one-dimensional and exaggerated, but allowing for all that the story made a sort of sense, with definable good guys and bad guys. The computer graphics were just amazing making the babies' mouths talk, having them walk and dance and show appropriate expressions and emotions. After a while, you simply forget that BABIES CAN'T DO THAT! I found myself laughing out loud and had a thoroughly good time. "}{"Title":"One of the worst film's of 1999. 1/2* out of ****","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"23 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  In Baby's Day Out an  innocent baby is kidnapped for ransom but wreaks havoc of his kidnappers. In Look Who's Talking babies talk a lot. In Baby Geniuses babies talk and wreak havoc on their kidnappers. See the similarities, with the exception that Baby Geniuses is a disgrace to the other two or any other baby movies.The film opens with a small baby named Sly, short for Sylvester, using his impressive karate skills on grown adults. First, he punches an individual in the jewels. Second, he flips another over his shoulder.The victims are workers for a massive but secret research company that strongly believes that babies under two years of age have their own language, that all other people can not understand. That they know everything, the secrets of the universe, human weaknesses and many other fascinating things.Why do the characters care about this material? How did they find out about it? When did this research start? How long has it been going on for? Why do we care? These are a few of some of the questions I am asking myself here, none of which are answered.The movies' characters are unexplained props used only to for the other characters, the babies, own personal uses and enjoyment, and to explain the plot to us, for the movie itself has no story, it's merely a study of pointless methodologically that no body cares about.The children themselves are given vulgar and unfunny dialog to chew on. The main baby is voiced appropriately by Joseph Mazzello, who was probably offered good money here. They have computer animated mouths, that I think are supposed to look like real talking babies. And they often swear at adults, like they are masters of the universe, and the film pretends that they are.The movie's performances aren't exactly outstanding. Peter MacNicol from Ally Mcbeal is a dad interested in nothing the audiences are. Kathleen Turner is surprisingly dimwitted as the head person is charge of the research company, but what can you expect from a person who's film credits include Serial Mom?  Christopher Lloyd from My Favorite Martian, is nothing special either.There are a few laughs generated from the strange character motives, but most of them involve the characters being in some sort of pain. The ending is energetic in its use of using the babies as props, but even that is an exaggerated vision of Baby's Day Out.Another major problem with the film is its use of the babies as objects. They are supposed to be cute, innocent creatures from God, not half animated plot devices. Even if the film did succeed in audience laughter, the subject of using babies as lab rats alone would turn anyone off immediately, even if it is played in a comic nature.Baby Geniuses is one of the worst family movies I have seen in a long time. Will kids enjoy it? It is hard to tell, they might get a kick out of the films use of slapstick humor, but it is nothing compared to any movie with Leslie Nielsen. Save your money. This is no better than the Ally Mcbeal computer animated dancing baby. "},{"Title":"It's all true...","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"28 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Everything you have ever heard about this movie is true. It deserves to be on the Bottom 100. The acting sucks, the plot sucks, EVERYTHING sucks! It's one of those things where it's unexplainable. When you watch a movie, you want to feel satisfied. You want to have a good time. There are a million movies that will give you this feeling. Baby Geniuses, however, is NOT one of these movies. It will make you feel ripped off and you will want an hour and a half back on your life. To keep it short DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE. You'll thank me. You will also thank the other one million people who told you not to watch it.1/10.  "},{"Title":"There were cute and funny moments, but wait until out on video.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I saw this at a premiere. Twelve people showed up and had we all not been given free stuff it would have been twelve too many. The movie had its moments, due to the kids being cute and ridiculous special effects. However, to see these big name actors put out this type of performance under the movie's premise was sad. Plus, this is a PG movie for a reason, the language is not suitable for young ones although little kids are the main target audience. Wait for this one to come out on video as the large screen and hefty ticket prices only detract from this movie experience. "},{"Title":"This film was painful...","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Well, if you're reading this you've already read the title of the film. Do you honestly need anymore to tell you how bad this film is? Just in case you weren't tipped off by the title, it sucked. But in fairness how do you make that premise work? Baby Geniuses is never going to be the next Citizen Kane any time soon is it. It sounds more like a writer wanted to make his child into a movie star and used this film as an excuse. I largely watched it because I had a morbid curiosity to see it. It was that same kind of curiosity that makes me wonder just what it would feel like to put my hand on an open flame. I knew I would go through pain but it will give me something to talk about to you psychiatrist. Just like any film, this does have a plot. A dumb plot, but a plot none the less. It follows the premise that all babies are born with intelligence far beyond that of any adult, but that they lose this intelligence when they get older. (I said it had a plot, I did not say that it made sense&#x85;) In one evil lab then they are doing tests to prove that babies can talk by separating twins with one being raised in a lab and one being raised in a regular home environment but are never allowed to meet as it would tamper the experiment. But through the power of bad story telling the child escapes and the wrong twin is brought back to the lab. From this premise alone I begin to wonder what producer saw this script and actually wanted to spend money to make it. As it turns out it's Steven Paul, who is also the writer of the film and the same producer who helped us see Ghost Rider Spirit of Vengeance. He seems to specialise in films that must be trying to be bad. But the problem is that his films are not so bad they're funny where you laugh because of how stupid the film is. Instead they're just very unpleasant films to watch. In fact, watching this film I didn't laugh once. Not once. It seems to have confused the idea of being annoying with that of being funny. Otherwise I would have no idea of why they would put so much noise of baby giggling in the film. When it's your child giggling you may enjoy it because it's your child, but on screen it is a hair pulling annoyance for all ages.Added to this is that the film is also very creepy, with the babies lip syncing in this being comparable to the last Twilight film (not quite as creepy as that one but we're in the same area of creepiness). And that isn't the only off putting element of this film. When you watch it then you have to witness the awkwardness of extreme close ups, a baby dancing like he was in a 70's film and terrifying giant robot mechanic babies. For the most part a lot of the film could probably be cut out of the film and put into a horror movie, because I certainly felt closer to being frightened then I was to laughing. Another annoying thing that this film has is Christopher Lloyd. In the film he is neither good nor bad. But I know Lloyd and he is capable of doing so much more than some of the garbage films he's done. The thing is this isn't even the worst film he's been, also appearing in Foodfight and Piranha 3d. I'm guessing he gets paid for it, but he's Christopher Lloyd god damn it! He's the Russian who tried to kill Anastasia! The scientist who created time travel! The killer who framed Roger Rabbit! He can play so many memorable roles, but keeps wasting his talent on films that are beneath him! He's a great actor and I can only hope that he will stop choosing such awful films...But Lloyds presence in the film is not the most upsetting thing. The saddest part about this film is that, adjusted for inflation, it earned over 50 million at the box office. People paid money to see this in a cinema. I get watching a film to laugh at how bad it is, but I really question the human race as a species when in a month where films like Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels and Analyze this come out people pay this much money to see a film like this. Worse yet because it did well at the box office, this film got a sequel. Yes, we live in a world where Dredd is a standalone film and Baby Geniuses gets a sequel. I have yet to see Superbabies Baby Geniuses 2, but somehow people say it is worse than the first. But I'm getting off track, so I'll leave you with this warning. This film was painful to watch and exists for no other reason than to be creepy and annoying. And if you have a twisted mind and get a kick out of listening to babies scream and laugh for an hour and a half then this could be your film. But if not, the only way you could possibly gain pleasure from this is by mocking it. "},{"Title":"Who allowed this movie to be made?","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Seriously? Who? Its about abunch of Geniuses that happen to be babies saying cheezy one liners. The only part that was funny was......well now that I think about it, there is no funny parts! I'll tell yah Lobster Man From Mars was 20 times better then this. "},{"Title":"On a Bet!","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"16 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Much has already been said about how truly rotten this movie is. So I'll spare you details in my review.I watched this movie on a bet. That is to say, I bet my twin brother $20.00 on something unrelated and lost. I was broke at the time and couldn't pay him until payday. So my twin bro offered me this Watch BABY GENIUSES 1 AND 2, back-to-back and start-to-finish and he would forgive me the debt.I should have paid him the money. I could have stretched my grocery money and ate noodles the rest of the week. See, I adore my bro. He's a great guy, but he's awfully slick with things like this and I should have known better. These two movies were the most appalling things I have ever scene (and I'm a HUGE fan of PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE). "},{"Title":"Baby Idiots","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I'll cut to the chase on this review. This is the worst attempt at comedy that I've ever seen. The whole story involves Dr.Kinder(played by Kathleen Turner) believes that babies hold the key to life's mysteries through their gibberish. So the quack kidnaps kids and holds them in a facility to test her inane theory. One of the babies named Sylvester escapes, they go looking for Sylvester and kidnap the wrong baby and Sylvester comes to the baby's rescue. The jokes fall flat and they have a bad tendency to repeat a lame joke about poop several times. Diaper gravy is not funny and it will never be! All the crummy jokes and gags are not the only flaw of this movie. Kathleen Turner is at her worst here and the rest of the cast is just awful. If you like jokes that wouldn't even appeal to the most simple-minded kid then you're the type of jello-brained idiot...ooops I meant to say this movie was made for you. Here's more movies you'll love if liked this one Freddy Got Fingered, Ed, Home Alone 4 Taking Back The House, Honey We Shrunk Ourselves, The Garbage Pail Kids, Pet Sematery 2, Problem Child 2, 3 Ninjas High Noon At Mega Mountain and Superbabies Baby Genuises 2. "},{"Title":"Give me Rugrats instead anyday...","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  The idea of babies speaking adult language had not been a fresh and original idea since Look Who's Talking, which did it right. This movie did it wrong, and ranks amoung the most horrible movies I've seen outside the world of MST3K.The jokes are funny, but not in the way they were intended to be. They are funny in their attempts to make you laugh and fail so miserably. Ha ha ha. "},{"Title":"Grasping for superlatives","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" OK, I got had. I was pursuing a doctorate in Slavic Languages when I rented this. A friend of mine told me that this move contained a musical routine entitled Putin on the Ritz (as in Vladimir Putin).It's basically a send-up of all the ex-KGB types who reconstituted themselves into pro-democracy reformers after the fall of the Berlin wall, he told me. Don't let the animatronic baby crap fool you- it's really quite insightful. They rhyme 'class war' with 'passifier' - I almost had a cerebral hemorrhage, I laughed so hard!Needless to say, I awoke an older and wiser man the next morning. And A Certain Someone will never, ever get my help translating dirty jokes from Croatian again, I don't care how @#$!-ing late his thesis is or how his stupid wife feels about it. Yeah, that means you, Arshad. Never again, dawg. Baby Geniuses indeed!Putin on the Ritz indeed! "},{"Title":"It's as bad as you've heard!","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"17 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Apparently producer Steven Paul and actor Jon Voight didn't learn anything when they produced the terrible ETERNITY ten years earlier, since they got together again to produce this absolutely moronic comedy. I think what really makes it so unbearable is the terrible dialogue given to the babies - they're given wiseguy remarks, barbed insults, and toilet words that make them utter repugnant despite their cuteness. The grown-up characters are little better than live-action cartoons, and you really sense how humiliated Turner, Lloyd, and even DeLuis are to be stuck here. Movie also has a slapdash feel, partly from its limited budget, but also what feels to be heavy reliance on improvisation. Hard to believe that a sequel is scheduled for release later this year! "}{"Title":"I wanted to feed these babies one by one to a Great White.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"17 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" The guy that gave us the wonderful Christmas Story, the absolutely terrifying Black Christmas and the rollicking Porky'soffers up a big piece of post-holiday sludge about experimental babies and the evil high-tech scientists that are raising them. The premise is that babies speak a language that if deciphered would provide the answers to the universe. While the adults on the screen are spared the thoughts and clever dialogue of the little tykes, the movie audience isn't afforded the same luxury.Movies about babies aren't supposed to make you hate the babies, but in Bob Clark's new comedy that combines the worst elements of Look Who's Talking and Home Alone, I began to truthfully despise the wise-cracking karate-kicking diaper-clad little urchins within three minutes of the opening credits. In all fairness it's not the babies fault that they're about as lovable as a hang-nail, it's an absolutely inane script filled with stupid dialogue, tired slapstick and over-driven campy performances by the likes of Kathleen Turner, Ruby Dee and the always exciting Dom Deluise. Those factors and digitized little mouths spewing cliched movie dialogue, statements like ooh...diaper gravy! and yes even some bad words, makes for the most agonizing 94 minutes I've ever spent in a movie theater. There may be something far more unsettling and scary in the upcoming new millennium than just the Y2K bug...Baby Geniuse's 2!' "},{"Title":"Baby Geniuses","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" In a year with great films (1999 - American Beauty, Green Mile, Fight Club, Matrix, Toy Story 2, Magnolia, The Sixth Sense), Baby Geniuses is a turd a garden.The movie has some of the worst dubbing I've ever seen in my life. Has some of the worst dialogue. It even makes fun of himself at one point. There's this part where Sam McMurray says, You've been watching too many bad movies. And then does exactly what he says he's not gonna do because a baby outsmarts him. I guess I have been watching too many bad movies.The only thing that doesn't make this one of the worst movies I've seen in my life is this theory that's mentioned. The theory that all babies carry all knowledge from their past life into the next one until they learn to talk and forget it all. It's kind of a weird theory, but I couldn't stop thinking about it. I know it's not true, but thinking that I could have held all the secrets to the universe in the world at one point. It amazes me.Anyway, this movie is utter diarrhea. "},{"Title":"Take a ritalin folks...it a bad movie, but not _that_ bad","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Okay, guys, I know it's fun to rant and make hyperbolic declarations and all that. That's what the Internet is for. But get over it. Baby Geniuses aims rather low and occasionally hits the mark.Agreed the dialogue is 3rd rate, there are tons of missed opportunities, and the idea is highly derivative. But worst movie ever? Please. I found this flick was marginally more engaging than Star Wars Episode One (not a very high standard, I'll admit). Compared to, say, the average Ernest Goes To... flick, it's freakin' Citizen Kane.And if you are offended by little children spouting a few mild swear words, grow the $%#! up already. Lock yourself in a room for 6 hours and watch a South Park marathon. Better yet, watch Bigger Longer and Uncut. It'll do you good, and put this movie in perspective.Or consider this -- almost every film parodied on MST3K was an actual theatrical release. You're telling me Baby Geniuses is worse than Manos Hands of Fate? Give me a break.  "},{"Title":"Boring...zzzz","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I bought this movie (unseen) cos my favourite actress, Kathleen Turner is in it - but I've only managed to see half-way through, up till now.  It's so boring!  I'm usually easily pleased where movies are concerned, and hate to condemn any film, cos I know how much work is involved by well-meaning people.  It may be that the rest of the movie is alright, or improves; but maybe not.  My ex-rental version's price went down from $14-95 to $7-95 to $4-95 - and that says it all! Score 3 out of 10 (and that's pushing it!) "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Is this movie supposed to be a joke? Or just a mean trick on the unsuspecting audience? But believe me, i have seen worse than this moronic combination of Look Who's Talking and Baby's Day Out. Like we needed another one.  "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but passable","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  First off, I have to say that I watched this movie when I was about 14 years old, either in '99 or 2000. That probably affected my rating of it, as I was in an off-and-on adults suck phase. I haven't watched the movie since, which explains why I can't go into any detail. Okay. I gave this movie a 5 out of 10. It wasn't a great movie. But in the mind of a young teenager, at least, it didn't *suck* either. I remember being amused by the attitudes of the babies, and I'd always believed that infants and pre-speech toddlers are a lot smarter than any of us adults (or even other kids, for that matter!) give them credit for. So the dialogue wasn't great, I remember that much. I do remember, however, laughing at quite a bit of what the main little baby said. I felt bad for this one little baby that got trampled on (figuratively, that is) by babies and adults alike. And I felt bad for whomever had to clean up the house those kids were in.I don't remember anything specific about this movie, good or bad. That's why I gave it a 5. It's nothing special, but I don't remember it as being horrible either. I'll never watch it again, though. Basically, I guess it'd be worth a watch if nothing good is on and you're curious to see just how bad a movie this was.Thinking about it, I maybe should have given it a 4 of 10. Oh well.  "},{"Title":"What crap.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I don't really feel like saying too much about such an awful movie, so I'll just say thisDo NOT rent, buy, go out and see, or otherwise view this movie in any way. It is PURE CRAP. Not even Christopher Lloyd was good in this movie. That says a lot in my mind. He's supposed to be a HERO, not a villain. Like in Back to the Future.I repeat AVOID THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"My wife owes me big time","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I went to see this because it was her turn to pick and she owes me big time. I think an equivalent payback might be Jerry Springer's Ringmaster or anything with Bruce Willis (she hates Bruce Willis).  It should be allowed to cast negative votes for this.  What was Christopher Lloyd THINKING???? "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Who's the greater fool, the fool who came up with this, or me, the fool who actually went to see it.  It was a late night showing and my thinking was blurred by a flask of moonshine, that's my excuse.  But the makers of this film have no excuse for this mess.  Why? That's what I want to know? The effects that made these babies do what they did were good,BUT IT'S CREEPY TO SEE BABIES ACTING LIKE THAT!!! so I give it a 1, which is fitting because it is around the average age of the actors and actresses, and not far behind the IQ's of those who actually made this film. "},{"Title":"Howard the Duck of the 90s","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This movie is painfully unoriginal and sickeningly unfunny.  Your bucket of movie popcorn will draw more laughs, while also being less irritating.  Only for the very young and/or the easily amused. My vote? 2/10 "}{"Title":"the people who financed this film are failures, working outside the standards of Hollywood!","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" It was so TERRIBLE, so AWFUL, so EXCRUCIATING, that something was very clear The people who financed this film (whoever they were, I don't want to know), are failures! They are clearly not knowledgeable about how to make a 2 minute video and are clearly not knowledgeable about anything in life in other words, they don't belong in Hollywood. Who on earth, in all the years it has been here, would possibly consider being a part of this movie? Well that questions is answered People who try to succeed in film, but failed miserably and all wound up together, financing this film. Whoever payed money for this film are washed up failures, who are working outside of the Hollywood standards.A terrible FIlm. That's it. Nothing more. If you see it, I'll pray for you not to lose your mind! "},{"Title":"... Why ?","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I'm trying to write this down as clearly as possible. Even though my hands are still shaking and my mind still blurry. A result from the utmost vile and horrific experience in my life. I swear it was only five minutes that I saw. Oh such horror is as unimaginable as the worlds beyond our dimension. Like a nightmare born from the mind of Howard Lovecraft Baby Geniuses consumes our very souls. Pollutes our brains with images of most disturbing nature, never before seen on screen. It's like A Mouth Off Madness only this thing is real, somebody actually made it in reality, and it's no wonder everything is falling apart. Only five minutes I saw, yet that image will haunt me for years to come. Bob Clark created a entirely new kind of horror. A kind of horror where there are no monsters, no gloomy ghost infested houses, no psychopathic killers no nothing of the horrory kind...It was babies...it was talking babies...it was talking babies who fought evil... it was the vomit inducing image of talking babies who fought evil.The horror... the horror... "},{"Title":"Baby Crap","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" We had to watch this movie for the end of the school year, and we'r in 8th grade, what was our teacher thinking putting us through this crap they call a movie, I couldn't look at the screen without getting a quivery stomach from its stupidity, I tried to sleep during it but the words were so annoying all I could do was clench my fists and think about how horrible the movie was, the lipsyncing was horrible, and the computer generated dancing baby was pathetic, Christopher Loyd has a lot more potential then this crap. The jokes the babies always said were horrible, and the stupid way the babies could hurt the adults was completely dumb. No one in my class could keep their heads up long enough to watch this crap, I'm glad the bell rang before the movie even ended because i think I would have keeled over, this movie almost made me sick. Two thumbs down, Way Down!!! "},{"Title":"can it get any worse","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Yes it can. On top of it being the worst plot in recent human history, that movie was incredibly annoying. It was like the entire cast was there just to create an incredibly annoying movie that I am not sure anyone who doesn't operate a daycare will be able to stomach. I almost threw a hammer at my screen 20 minutes into that movie, but decided to live through it. It's so bad it doesn't even warrant a full review. Save yourself.  "},{"Title":"Oh my God!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Don't even get me started on this one. I mean talking babies, it was okay in Look Who's Talking, but come on babies that are geniuses. So what they can spell their ABC's early, my niece can spell her's and she's 2 years old. Just when you're in the movie station just pass by it. "},{"Title":"So bad, it was the first movie I ever turned off before the end","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  We last ten minutes into this movie, hoping that it'd get better. Some friends with similar tastes (any taste) didn't last that long.Even Kathleen Turner (We love you Kathleen!) couldn't save this stinker.Amazing as it seems, someone was brave/stupid enough to make a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie of all time","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I mean, come off it, babies talking to each other in a secret code? This movie is so bad words can't describe how bad it is. The whole concept of the movie is retarded! I can't believe Kathleen Turner and Peter MacNicol actually were in this film. If I were them I'd be embarrassed.10% "},{"Title":"What a terrible piece of crap","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I took a date to see this piece of crap movie because my friends worked on it.  I made my friends give me my money back.  Nuff said?  There were 6 people in the theater at the beginning.  2 of them left after 20 minutes. My date and I and the other 2 leftover people stayed and laughed...at each other's jokes.  We did out own personal MST 3000 on this movie "},{"Title":"This movie is the opposite of smiles.","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" YIKES. There is nothing good or likable in this whole film. Nothing. There is something so painful about bad comedy. When a movie tries to be funny, but is terrible at it, it makes you HURT. Baby Geniuses hurts.Let's start with the premise Babies who are 'geniuses'. Well, there's your first problem. Babies are not smart. Oh, but you just have to be imaginative and have suspension of disbelief Blah, blah, blah, suspend yourself over a gorge, you supporter of horrible films. I'm the kind of person who can enjoy a ridiculous premise. I loved Babe, and I readily accepted the premise of sentient farm animals. Do not tell me that I'm just too cynical to appreciate a goofy movie. No, the problem lies in centering your movie around the idea that not only do babies speak perfect English to each other, not only are they incredibly smart, not only can they flip around and do stunts, but they forget it all when they turn two. Freaking HUH?!? That makes no sense. It doesn't even make MOVIE sense. And the whole nudge-wink at the audience that babies just keep up the pretense around adults- OH PLEASE. So, babies crap their pants, wander around blank-faced into furniture, and obsessively chew on my hair or car keys every time I'm around, but they're secretly super-duper smart ninjas? No.Another problem with this should be readily obvious to anyone who respects acting Babies cannot act. It's at best awkwardly cute. But, in most movies (especially GOOD movies), scenes with children are minimal and designed with a children's limitations in mind. The audience will tolerate a few seconds of little Billy reading off his cue card before running off the stage back to his mother, and everyone can go back to enjoying the scene. But this is a movie of nothing but that! So while the movie is trying to set up these kid characters as smug, intelligent, witty spies, all anyone with half a brain is seeing is awful CG mouths and lame dubbed in lines pasted over a drooling, completely-oblivious toddler. It's not cute or funny.And the terrible computer effects are one of the many things that makes this movie INCREDIBLY dated. Remember how awkwardly shoe-horned special effects were into every 90's film? Baby Geniuses seems to be an exercise in studios pandering to people who are so amused by special effects, that it doesn't matter how poorly done they are. The baby effects are TERRIBLE. The mouths just kind of wriggle around out of place on the babies faces, and all of the action scenes look about as real as the spaceships in Plan 9 From Outer Space. I have a vehement loathing for the scene that was quite obviously created to be put in EVERY TRAILER the Saturday Night Fever parody where one of the babies disco dances in the trademark white suit. Not once do the body or face of this character seem like they have any connection to each other whatsoever. It's not well done, it's not funny, it's just lazy and can't even pull off a cheap laugh correctly.As for the script? I'm going to be as lazy as the screenwriters for this one It sucked and was bad and I hate it.This movie was made to cash in on one of the most easy to pander to groups imaginable Families. When you have kids, your sense of humor turns to crap. Yes, I know all of you are already arguing, but kindly stop. To an extent, I understand why people (especially moms) suddenly become unfunny after you have kids They take over your life, and all that is in it. For a time, you will be forced to watch what they watch, listen to the jokes they tell, and generally alter the way you talk and behave around them. That's just a part of being a parent. It's only logical that after being exposed to all of their content you would eventually build a tolerance to it, maybe even develop an appreciation for it. Maybe some of you were unfunny to begin with. But there it is.Baby Geniuses was made for families. Specifically, the average, unfunny ones that find only the most bland, dated, and cutesy crap enjoyable. Every joke and moment was crafted for them. This movie is basically every thing my grandmother would find hilarious. I could practically imagine her excitedly repeating the repulsive diaper gravy joke and thinking it's hysterical. The Austin Powers quote made me want to send every network consultant to bottom of the ocean. It so perfectly encapsulates what this film is. It's a template for every funny scene in this horrible film Baby does something babies do not normally do + probably a baffled adult somewhere + baby uses slang or quotes something currently famous. The Austin Powers joke doesn't even make sense within the context of the scene, they just threw it in there because oh look, the baby is talking like Austin Powers, isn't that just hilarious????? To sum up. This movie has mom humor, it's not well made, and anyone giving it ten stars should not be trusted EVER. And no, I'm not just saying that because I only like mature films with violence. I LIKE a lot of kids media. I think babies are adorable when they AREN'T being scripted to be so. Hell, I have LaLa-freaking-loopsy on my DVR right now. So don't tell me I'm just a grumpy adult who can't stand innocence and silly fun. I just can't stand movies made with such calculated marketing as this, and so poorly done to boot.If you want to see an enjoyable kid-friendly movie, watch Babe. Or Toy Story. Or Willy Wonka. Mrs. Doubtfire. Harry Potter. Or really ANYTHING BUT THIS MOVIE. There ARE kid-friendly movies out there, and some of them ARE well-made. It doesn't have to be a trade-off, I promise. "},{"Title":"This movie is terrible","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I don't know how movies could possibly be so bad. I think this is probably in my top ten of the worst movies ever. The jokes are lame, the acting is terrible, and the lip syncing is horrendous. I think they did a better job making the animals talk in the live action Jungle Book. There should've at least been some clever lines of humor to make up for the other crappy things in it, but that was nonexistent. It is so bad it makes one want to die while watching it. Christopher Lloyd is also pretty awful in it, and he's usually a pretty good actor. The director was obviously not caring about quality at all when he made this movie. He figured the kids who watched it would be as dumb as the script. But that isn't true, because ever since I was young I found this to be horrendous. This movie should be much farther than 80 on the Bottom 100. I'd say more like five. "}{"Title":"Bad! Bad! Bad!","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Awful! Bad! Awful! Terrible! Mon Dieu! Sacre Bleu! Horrible! Upchuck! Why did Kathleen Turner do this movie. She must have been really desperate to take this one. So must have Christopher Llyod, Do Not! see this movie. I repeat if someone has this playing Run! don't walk but Run! to the nearest exit before you shoot your eys out! I can't believe I had to sit through this piece of garbage my little cousins love this piece of sh*t, tg their parents unplug the TV whenever this is on and blame the cable company. I don't have anything else to say about this crap but I have to make 10 lines!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Taste precludes my using the appropriate words.","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This is the most cynical, abusive, manipulative, poorly executed, trite piece of garbage I have ever seen, bar none. And I include Jaws the Revenge. Pause. You may now pull yourself up off the floor -- I know that's a shock to your system.They substitute A MIDGET'S BODY and superimpose a BABY'S HEAD to show a baby dancing. They use a midget's hands to simulate the supposed dexterity of the main genius baby. Dirty AND poorly manicured, I might add.This move is scarier than any other I have ever seen. The baby talking effects make Keanu Reeves look positively lifelike. (Another shock, I know. Take a deep breath, and continue if you dare). It is horrible, unfunny, and -- as previously pointed out, the worst crime of all -- not even interesting as camp.I am very worried that this got such a high rating (2.8 as I write). I am curious as to how IMDb could allow a selection as *high* as 1 (must be a bug, folks, please check this out). The upper range of this movie can only start at the kind of negative numbers more usually associated with the ambient temperature of Pluto, as measured in degrees Fahrenheit.I grieve that I also inflicted this abuse on my innocent, unsuspecting children -- whom I have since carefully observed for any symptoms of Traumatic Stress Disorder. So far, so good. I am surprised at their (children's) resilience. I have not fared so well. "},{"Title":"Maybe Not So Genius After All?","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"   Baby Geniuses catches a rare glimpse of Christopher Lloyd in a bad acting rut. I never would think it possible after watching Back to the Future or Taxi, but 'tis true. Baby Geniuses is one to miss. If you liked this movie, you'll lo-o-ove Kazaam!1/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Baby Geniuses","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I remember seeing this film when I was young, and even then I don't remember it being very entertaining stuff, from director Bob Clark (Porky's). Basically doctors Elena Kinder (Kathleen Turner) and Heep (Christopher Lloyd) run the world's leading manufacturer of baby products, Babyco, which doubles as a theme park, but secretly they are working to crack the secret of babies communicating in a their baby talk language as they discuss secrets of the universe or whatever. The smartest babies however, Sly (identical triplets Gerry, Leo and Myles Fitzgerald), has managed to escape from the lab, and they need to get him back. At home with his parents, mother Robin (Kim Cattrall) and father Dan (Peter MacNicol), his twin Whit (also played by the three Fitzgeralds) shares a telepathic bond, but they don't realise each other's existence, and of course, they get swapped when the bad guys catch one of them. So now Sly and Whit together, in the neighbourhood and in the lab, recruit all the other babies, to go up against the adults and gain their freedom. Also starring An American Tail's Dom DeLuise as Lenny and Ruby Dee as Margo. The premise of seeing few-month to two-year-old kids talking sounded dodgy from the word go, and seeing it isn't clever, and then acting like some mini action heroes isn't funny or impressive either, and it's not even that cute. You could say that the makers of this film are infantile, and you'd be correct, it is like crossing live action Rugrats with Spy Kids or something, it is just the most appalling thing you'll see, maybe the toddlers will like it, but for the mature members viewers, avoid it. Poor! "},{"Title":"Awful on every level imaginable","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I'm a sucker for so bad it's good movies, so while browsing through the Bottom 100 list, I checked out this movie's page. I remember seeing ads for this on TV when I was a little kid and thinking how stupid it looked. Reading the comments posted had me laughing, and I decided I had to check this one out.This movie is horrendous on every level. The acting is absolutely atrocious. Christopher Lloyd gives the closest thing to a decent performance, but other than that, awful. Kathleen Turner, Kim Cattrel, Peter MicNicol, all terrible. The special effects are also a joke. The lip movements of the babies rarely match up with the words being spoken. And what was up with Sly's laugh? It sounded nothing like his speaking voice.Ah, what else. Ah yes, the plot. A plot doesn't even really exist in this movie until it's near the end. The film begins(after a painful-to-watch press conference given by Turner's character) with an expose on the secret underground baby lab. The stuff that goes on down here is ridiculous. You've got babies playing full blown symphonies on synthesizer pianos and building replicas of the pyramids of Giza out of Legos. Hardcore. Perhaps most ridiculous is how they spend so much effort locking the baby Sly in his little house, only to make it incredibly easy for him to touch the electronic lock panel on his door.More unbelievable than anything in the entire movie is the montage set to soft music at the end of the film. What the? What is the audience supposed to be doing, tearing up? This film is an absolute disgrace. Awful acting, awful special effects, awful plot inconsitiencies.Awful Movie. "},{"Title":"Lacking in any wit or value","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Deep in the headquarters of a baby supplies corporation is a secret lab that is studying the communication of babies in the belief that they have a secret language and that the uninfluenced mind of a baby holds the secrets of the universe.  However one baby is giving them problems &#150; Sly, who was separated from his twin at birth and put in the lab while his brother went out to live in a normal home.  On escaping the lab, Sly flees to the local mall where he meets his twin and gets accidentally taken home by Robin while his brother is mistakenly taken back to the lab.  With the two brothers now under threat, the babies in and outside the lab plan an audacious plot to bring down the corporation.I was on a ferry going to Northern Ireland and, just as it was docking I caught literally the opening two minutes of this film before I had to leave my cabin and get my car.  I was taken by the potential of the film and it stuck in my head.  Skip forward about a year and the film was on terrestrial TV so I sat to watch it.  Sadly the film not only failed to turn a silly idea into a tongue in cheek comedy but it also failed to do anything worth watching.  The sheer absurdity of the idea could have worked had the film given us plenty of jokes for adults as well as mocking itself as it went.  However it didn't go anywhere and even appeared to take itself seriously!Although the baby chats are occasionally amusing it is mostly unfunny.  Kids may enjoy seeing babies fight and run around but I doubt the age group this is aimed at will have the slightest idea what is going on.  With the exception of the opening 2 minutes there is almost nothing that adults will enjoy here.  I can't put it any clearer &#150; add a bit of knowing humour and this might have worked &#150; as it is it is just awful.The adult cast should hang their heads in shame &#150; they clearly hoped for another child/adult hit like `Look Whose Talking' but they ended up with the sort of film that belongs in a diaper.  Turner, Lloyd, Cattrall and MacNicol all could have been much more fun but instead all play it seriously and thus kill any fun it may have been.  The kids are OK and somehow managed to be manipulated by the director to do what the film demands, however, it is obvious that the film needed them to be `cute' which they spectacularly fail to be.  The special effects used to move their mouths gives them a real creepy look and the way that more complex moves are performed by adults with the baby heads superimposed on their bodies is, well, just stupid looking and a little unnerving.Overall I do believe that with some really strong adult humour (see Toy Story) and some better adult performances to inject some fun into it, that this could have been a better film.  As it is, it is just awful and even if my kids begged I wouldn't watch it again &#150; it would be for their own good! "},{"Title":"This is really bad.","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I can freely say, without reservation, that this movie is simply dreadful. It is among the worst out there, and I have seen some pretty bad films.The whole premise is cretinous and it is executed very, very poorly. The acting, along with everything else, is terrible and the humour, such as it is, is mostly moronic. There are occasional flashes that try to approach slightly entertaining humour, but overall it is all so cretinous and poorly done that that it is not even funny. The result is excruciatingly tedious. Even as a kids' film it is worthless.I can't imagine why Christopher Lloyd, normally so good, would have done this film. But, even the greatest actors sometimes get involved in utterly terrible films. "},{"Title":"So babies can kung fu fight and understand quantum physics?","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"16 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  If you enjoy killing brain cells at a pace like no other see this movie. Basically this movie was a piece of crap and should have never been made. The only positive thing that comes from a movie like this is that those who see it realized that morons can succeed in Hollywood.  I mean if you can sell a script about babies with infinite intelligence whats stopping you from becoming the next senator or even president?  If you happen to meet the person who came up with the idea for this movie, kick them where it hurts. "},{"Title":"Completely Terrible!!!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"33 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"   Baby Geniuses is a pointless and stupid film. It was completely ridiculous!!! One The story was terrible, unamaginative, and pointless. Two The acting wasn't great, except for Kathleen Turner's performance. And Three The kids that were supposed to look like babies looked more like three or four year olds, and also you could see that when the babies talked, they weren't really talking, only that they were moving their mouths and that someone else was talking. And, I mean, babies being able to talk? STUPID! This film was very cheesy and stupid, which I had not expected. This was , without a doubt, the worst film of nineteen-ninty-nine. I give this terrible film a 0 out of 10.  (  "},{"Title":"My four-year-old said it really dragged.","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This film has its moments.  It's a cute idea, some of the scenes are pretty good, don't look for a lot of consistency and you'll be OK.  But as my four-year-old daughter said, it was pretty boring.  We were in agreement on that.  And we both like any movie at all better than no movie.Is it me, or is there just not much out there any more of any real quality that you can take your kids to see?  "}{"Title":"OH MY GOD!!!","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  this film is sooo cool i love it i could watch it all day, and also the guy who plays Dickie Kyle Howard is actually quite fit. But thats not the point this film is imaginative and different and looks at things from another point of view.  "},{"Title":"Don't bother.  No, really.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I am currently serving as a camp counselor for 25 kids, all ages 11 and 12.  We wanted to rent a movie for them, so we checked out Ever After and Baby Geniuses.  The kids unanimously voted for the latter (apparently they'd all seen the former already, as had I -- twice), so we put it in the VCR and lit up the big-screen TV.That was our mistake.  The film is horribly, terribly, revoltingly bad.  It's almost entirely generated through special effects, as was Titanic, but that film won several awards for the effects -- and this is the opposite.  The film's sole redeeming feature is that it could be used as an example of what NOT to do with your fancy special effects technology.I logged onto IMDb while the kids were watching the film because I was curious about the age of the actor playing the main character -- the kid in the movie is about 18-24 months old, but I was sure the actor was between 7 and 10 years old.  The only information I found was that the one actor was actually a set of triplets, but of course there was no further information on them.The kids seem to be enjoying it enough, though.  It's keeping them quiet, and that's why we rented the film.  I had better make sure they're not throwing popcorn at each other, though. "},{"Title":"An insult to crappy films","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I've seen really, really terrible movies.  I mean, the absolute lowest of the low.  And Baby Geniuses is insulting even to those awful films.  I can't imagine what possible justification there could be for anything remotely connected to this film the script is insulting.  The direction is insulting.  The performances are insulting.  The money spent on this movie could have easily funded 15 indie films, giving voice to young and talented filmmakers with something REAL to say.  John Voight, the film's producer, should know better.  What a catastrophe.  Starving children, people dying of from AIDS, flood victims...and some imbecile pumps millions of bucks into THIS.   "},{"Title":"Bad 90's movie to make fast cash off tacky kids","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Why on earth did I even watch this thing? Baby Geniuses makes the Justin Bieber movies look good, and it was honestly the most pathetic thing I've ever seen. As if the bad acting and awful soundtrack isn't enough, the plot revolves around scientists who are keeping children captive. What the hell? What is the purpose of this dopey movie? Well, I'll tell you the purpose is to draw in the I love cute babies crowd. You know, pageant moms, new couples, people who will look back and think, I'm a smart person but I watched this trailer-trash? It makes me very worried for society to see good ratings on it. I only hope it is left in this website's bottom 100, it deserves to be there. "},{"Title":"A strange movie, and not in a good way!","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" What can I say? It appears this movie has been in the IMDb Bottom 100 for quite some time! Some films are in there for a while, but then drop out, as their rating increases slightly, not that I'm saying that means they're any good. However, Baby Geniuses is one of those films that seems to remain up there (or down there). I may not dislike this total flop as strongly as many do, but like the vast majority of people who have ever seen it, I got absolutely nothing out of it! Dr. Kinder and Dr. Heap are members of a company called Babyco. They are secretly studying babies and their communication, so they can learn the secrets of the universe! After a highly intelligent baby in their secret lab named Sly manages to escape, he goes out to form an army of babies from outside the lab to help free those being held captive inside! This is supposed to be a comedy, but since I didn't laugh or even smile once, I can't give it any credit as such. Now, I will admit that I thought it could have been worse. I think the diaper gravy part grossed me out a bit, and still does when I think back to it, but also feel that this movie would have been worse had the excretion jokes been more extreme, like the ones in a rightfully obscure cartoon show called Mega Babies. Unfortunately, I sound like I'm defending Baby Geniuses now, but I can assure you, just because I say it could have been worse doesn't mean I'm saying it's not bad! So many others have criticised it for being stupid and boring, as well as having a bad script and bad acting, and I certainly can't deny any of these things! I also think it's a bit strange, in a way I can't really describe.As displeased as I was by this film, it wouldn't feel right for me to go with over 50% of the other IMDb voters and give it a 1/10, as it was a tad too forgettable to be my worst movie experience. I'm not even sure about my 2 rating, and might be able to give it a 3. However, that's still far from a positive rating, and I can say without ANY doubt in my mind that it was NOT worth it! Should kids watch this film? That's debatable, but since I'm not a parent, it's not my decision. I feel I should just mention that it's not 100% clean. For adults, however, Baby Geniuses is hands down a must-see! Just kidding. It's pretty much the opposite, so I strongly advise you to steer clear! "},{"Title":"How dare you!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  For all of you who didn't like this movie, I say 'screw you'.  I was the stunt midget in this movie for baby Sly.  I am proud of my work in this fine cinemagraphic acheivement.  Without me scenes such as the modeling dance scene and all the fight scenes.  Not many of you out there can say I was in a big budget movie or say I worked with fine actors like Dom DeLuize.  I even got my own chair with my name on it.  How many of you can say I was what made baby Sly sassy and spunky.  I worked hard everyday to make it look like that really was a baby dancing and fighting grown men.  I think this is one of the funniest movie I have seen.  It is right up there with Free Willy.  At the end of production I thought, it is great to be a stunt midget in this town we call Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Wake me when it is over","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  My 9 year old liked it.  I fell asleep several time in this movie. This was one of those movies where everything that you saw in the commercial (trailer) was all that the movie had to offer.It's like the TV version of Honey I Shrunk the Kids, but more boring.3/10 "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever...","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Just... don't watch it. If you watch it, prepare to be baffled by the horrible acting, stupid special effects, and ridiculous story. The story from what I could gather involves a company called Baby Co. trying to get babies to make revolutionary discoveries, or something. It's hard to describe the movie because it's so horrible that it's incredibly hard to understand at all whats going on. IT MAKES NO SENSE. The worst part about this movie, however, has to be the Animatronic baby. No words can describe how horrifying this is. Nobody needs to see this, and anybody who has is probably dead by now. I showed this movie to a 16 year old friend of mine, and he literally cried while watching it. Overall, just skip it. The only movie I can think of that's worse is Son of the Mask. "},{"Title":"Spectacular! (ly awful!)","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Stunning! Agonizing! Painful! I didn't think it was possible that there was a worse movie than Manos The Hands of Fate. I was wrong. Manos has an intelligible story arc. Manos has characters I care about a little. Manos left me with at least a little admiration for the producer/director/star for having the guts to make it despite having no budget and no talent. Campy, and you can at least have fun laughing at it.Baby Geniuses on the other hand, has none of these redeeming qualities. Full of producers, directors, and stars who know better, along with a multi-million dollar budget. Blech! Makes my brain hurt. I don't think it can even be enjoyed with excessive quantities of intoxicants.What's really astounding is that they had the nerve to make a sequel! As much as I enjoy rotten movies, I'm not sure I have the guts to watch Superbabies. A man has to know his limits. "},{"Title":"im going to throw up","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I seriously think i threw up watching this movie.It was so outrageously ridiculous. Just the fact that there are people in this world who enjoyed this movie makes me feel queasy inside. Nobody wants to watch small babys crawling around in a crib while horrible voiceovers who sound about 40 try and act like babys.Thats nooot disturbing or anything. That alone is a recipe for a disastrous movie. But to top it off lets make these Babys SPYS. are you serious!. Ewwww!.Baby geniuses. More like retards. Because not once in the movie does one of the babys actually talk for themselves. And leave the spying or whatever that bull.... was. Because nobody but pedofiles will enjoy that!.and im just going to say that making a baby geniuses 3 was probably the stupidest idea you could think off. If one and two bombed. what makes you think we want to see that again. "}{"Title":"Rotten but funny","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Horrible Acting Clearly Kathleen Turner, Christopher Lloyd, and Kim Catrall were not at their best. Even the legendary Dom DeLuise was not in very good form. It always seemed the cast members were either disinterested, or in Turner's case, over the top.Dr. Elena Kinder was not the only idea thief. Some of the scenes were clearly recycled from other films, such as Home Alone, but they still, for some unexplained reason, made me laugh until it hurt.The use of babies was disgusting It smacked of some to the early work of Ann Geddes. It was condescending in a veiled fashion. The technology was not great either. The morphing of the babies mouths was useless. The money spent on that could have gone to restructuring the plot.Really deserved to be rated a zero, yet... I liked it... Strange...... "},{"Title":"A terrible TERRIBLE movie","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  the only reson they made this movie was to show off their special effects which suck now compared to anything else basiclly a scientest finds out babys speak their own language and are actually smart but this scientest is DUN DUN DUUUUN EVIL so the babys have to stop them (by the way now suddenly the babys can talk to the adults some how) which they do in some stupid unbeliveable way that would only happen if the evil scientests were the stupidest pieces of crap ever to walk the face of the earth and I almost forgot Once you turn 2 or 3 or something you forget about having your own language and everything of so all in allno plot + no effects +no acting= DON'T SEE THIS MOVIEPS. I saw this movie 4 years ago so I might have been going a little easy on itPSS. I dont like saying PS. so im never going to say it againwho the hell says ps anyway "},{"Title":"Ouch!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This film was very painful to watch.  And to think it actually made money. I took my 9 year old daughter to see it in the theater so I was completely captive throughout the entire movie.  This may be one of the worst movies ever. "},{"Title":"Yikes!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I was flipping through some channels a couple of weeks ago and stumbled onto this one on cable. What was this film? Who came up with it? Yikes!I coudn't even watch this whatever it is for 15 minutes! I normally like to see what happens at the end of shows I find on cable, even if I vow to never see them again. Who came up with this? Normally I don't like to slam movies, because I hate antihype, but this movie really was lame. Who came up with this? All the talking babies really did was kinda give me the creeps. Ick. "},{"Title":"Bring this sucker down.  It doesn't deserve to be above the WORST MOVIE EVER!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Why? Because it IS the worst movie ever.  This is only one of two movies I have walked out on.  I was forced to sit though it.  I left at the last 30 minutes without any notice and went downstairs to play sonic.  Horrible effects, too much overacting, and terrible editing.  Whats something good about this movie? Well, it is in color. WAIT, no! Psycho is in Black and White, and so is Young Frankenstein.  O well, this move would get a 0/1 if possible. I give it a 1/10, cuz thats as low as it goes. "},{"Title":"Total Rubbish","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This is one of the worst films of the century.It definitely ranks with the likes of Battlefield Earth and Judge Dredd.What is even more scarier than the film is that the producers decided on a sequel!! My sister loves this movie - You guessed it - she has bad taste in movies "},{"Title":"Dare I say Genius?","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I think not.  This, by far, is the worst movie I have seen in my entire lifetime.  There is not one single funny moment in the entire film and it tries......and tries......and tries.  But it only gets worse...and worse...and worse.  How could Christopher Lloyd subject himself to this trife? The answer alludes me.   There simply aren't enough words in the English language which can describe the crap that is Baby Geniuses. "},{"Title":"This Movie Caused My IQ to Decrease","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Unfortunately, I've sat through this movie on more than one occasion because of my kid brother. There is nothing... I repeat... NOTHING entertaining about this movie. Nothing. It's not funny, it's not cute, it's not exciting... Well, here's a good comparison. It's like gum after you've chewed the flavor out of it. Bland, bland, bland. The acting? Terrible. The action sequences? Terrible. The jokes? There weren't any jokes in the movie, don't look for any. Don't see this movie. I'm sure it has some sort of lasting effect upon the brain. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Why did they make this movie.  WHY! I have never hated a movie before, but now, now things have changed.  This isn't a family movie.  This isn't a funny movie.  It is stupidity at its lowest level.  Here is the plot scientists uncover that babies are actually geniuses. The babies the are studying rebel.  And that is it.  Sounds stupid? IT IS!  I must warn as many people as I can. NEVER SEE THIS AWFUL THING. (Note this is not a movie. This is a monster that must be stopped and destroyed) "},{"Title":"CAUTION Do not enter danger zone","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I'm lucky I only payed $2 to see this movie. Then again, I could have spent my $2 a bit more wisely, maybe by slipping one dollar coins into those candy machines in the mini-mall that give out rotton little bubblegum balls. It would have been a better use of my money.This movie even makes Flipper (the modern version) appear to be the next Titanic.Its target audience is the little ones, yet it still uses lines like  d**n and  s**t. A tagline for this movie was A live-action Rugrats.  However, Rugrats goes beyond the world of talking babies and their parents' lack of awareness, and  manages to explore the imaginations of babies and toddlers, and have the scene suddenly turn into their fantasized adventures, which caught my interest. When did this ever happen in Baby Geniuses? There is not a single moment in this movie where I hadn't wished to walk out of the theater, I wasn't ever even scarcely entertained. This movie was also over-advertised where I live, since people were wise enough to avoid it.  My rating... I won't even bother. This is the single worst excuse for a movie I have ever seen.  "}{"Title":"A dirty diaper is more appetizing","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Oh, how the mighty have fallen. Kathleen Turner used to be the most exciting actress in Hollywood. From Body Heat to Peggy Sue Got Married to The War of the Roses, Turner starred in one great film after another in the 1980s. She closes out the &#145;90s, though, with her worst film ever. Baby Geniuses, a supposed comedy about genetic superbabies who communicate brilliance through baby talk, is a new low for the family film genre. It's not cute, it's not clever, and it's sure as hell isn't funny. It's absolute sewage. "},{"Title":"BABY... You don't have to be a GENIUS to hate this one!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"    I saw this movie on a bus tour and I wanted to head for the exits... only we were traveling 65 mph...  Special effects? ..poor, plot.. poor, dialogue? ..poor, comedy?..poor, acting? ... are you getting the drift yet??? The concept was good, only the film was done SO BADLY that any shred of this good idea was destroyed. Give the concept to a bright 5th grader and it would be better written. The biggest let-down is how the storyteller views bright children..Freaks.. Anti-social rug rats... My right hand is starting to cramp up!  Not even recommend as a so bad it's good film.. such as plan 9 ... If you bought this dog, the VHS tape can be re-used if you cover over the missing do not record tag...  then record over this movie with something more interesting like... a commercial for an exercise machine? A test pattern?  An actor who admits he has  E.D.? Channel #1 Snow?   0(zero) stars our of 4 (cause it don't go no lower) "},{"Title":"BBBBOOORRRRRRRIIIIIINNNNGGG","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  THIS MOVIE WAS SO BORING. i fell asleep twice in this movie, it had no key parts, no funny parts, and it was totally stupid. I hated it. this has to be one of the worst movie of any year. i hope my vote put this movie down to - 1,000 (if there was one) "},{"Title":"This movie is AWFUL","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Hey- just because we have the technology to make it seem like babies can talk, does that mean we should?  Not with this movie as an example, no. This movie is so bad, it gave me a headache.  It wasn't cute; in fact, it was a little scary.  Babies cannot and should not be manipulated like that. It's icky.  DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE.  Save yourself the pain. "},{"Title":"Don't rent this movie","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I love being around babies & watching movies that include babies/toddlers. But this movie is at the bottom of my list. I hated the way this movie exploited the toddlers like lab rats. Also, it had toddlers cursing at adults which I found offensive. Not only that, but it also had toddlers doing violence acts against others which I found not funny at all.  Please, if you care & love children, don't rent this movie. In my opinion, the storyline wasn't good & the acting of the characters were poorly done. "},{"Title":"The pits","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Seldom if ever has a star of the magnitude and demonstrable talent of Kathleen Turner appeared in a worse film than this execrable comedy--or given a worse performance than Turner's obviously embarrassed and unfunny turn. "},{"Title":"When I watched this movie, a small piece of me died.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  DO NOT GO SEE THIS MOVIE.  My family rented this movie a few weeks ago and I am still having nightmares about how worthless this movie was.  I still to this day don't know how it ends because I SHUT THE MOVIE OFF 1/2 of the way through it!  I don't know how I made it that far in the first place.  Please save yourselves and DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"toxic waste from hollywood","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This movie is one of the most horrible peaces of sludge to ever make it out of hollywood.  It is so bad it is not even funny. In the 50's Ed Wood created some brilliant masterpieces compared to this diaper waste. Parents should avoid letting their children watch this for fear of warping such young minds. "},{"Title":"Awful. Just awful.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Saw it at my in-laws. A terrible waste of time. The gag lost any potential by the  Look Who's Talking sequels. The poster alone was enough to keep me away from the theatre for a while. I can't imagine how a non-Julia Roberts movie could be worse. "},{"Title":"One of the WORST Movies Ever Made","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Plan 9 From Outer Space was a bad movie, indeed, but at least it was fun to watch and fun to laugh at. Baby Geniuses was so gosh darn awful that I felt squeamish the entire time, waiting for the film to be finished... no, I wasn't just bored, I was also infuriated that such a film was even made!! I am insulted that Hollywood as sunk so low as to put this piece of garbage out for the rest of us to see.. I'm so glad that Entertainment Weekly gave it an F... though there's not a grade low enough to describe this stupid, insultingly dumb trash!!!  "}{"Title":"Save your money....","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I took my son to see this movie, not knowing anything about the story. As a parent who cares about what goes into my children's brain, I cannot recommend this movie. For a G rated flick, the language was not appropriate and the adult sexual innuendos are going to be over the kid's heads. Pass on this one folks. There's much better entertainment to put in your children's brains.  "},{"Title":"This movie is very bad and more bad than anything else.","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Do not see this very very bad movie!. I am very very happy that all people hate this very bad movie.I am very very happy all people vote 1 * for this very very bad movie. I advise you all to vote 1 star*.Only stupid people and crazy families vote 10 for this very bad movie. I am very very very sure this movie will go back and back to be at the bottom.Why they make a very bad bad movie like baby geniuses?.Do not buy this DVD!. Do Not Be Crazy!.Vote only 1 * and open your mind and you must hit your kids if they buy this very very very bad movie . This movie has very much violence and very very bad. Do not waste your time and see it.Only smart people vote down for this movie and only crazy people vote up for this very very bad movie. "},{"Title":"Baby geniuses is for baby's who aren't geniuses","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Newsflash baby's aren't typically good actors. getting them to TALK is even more disastrous. either the baby's are prompted to move their mouths up and down, which then has audio poorly synced up to it later, or their mouths are animated using CGI(I warn any passerby, that this movies CGI is Horrendous. it even looks creepy when they try to animate the baby's performing even simple actions) May I add that the baby's have stunt doubles that are about a foot taller than them?this movie tries to be a comedy. and the jokes they use? that good 'ol unfunny, lowest denominator, focus group approved Sh*t we all know and hate. the plot revolves around a secret organization called baby co who's goal is to prove baby's have higher intelligence than adults.(the movie makes it painfully obvious that these are the bad guys) one of their baby's, Sly, escapes, and hi jinks ensue as sly is mistaken as Wit, another baby that a regular suburban family recently lost track of. that's all you need to know. the ending doesn't make much more sense.If you need any more reason why not to watch this movie, I would like to inform you that there is a scene in this movie where they defile the BeeGees "},{"Title":"Babies are not cute enough to validate the existence of this film.","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" This movie is based around the concept that babies are (supposedly) cute and therefor, if the audience is shown enough cute babies, the film will be good by association. Sadly, for both filmmakers and audience, this is not the case; shoving scene after scene of cute babies down our throats does not make your movie good. There has to some form of content other than cuteness to create a movie, otherwise it might just as well be a series of Youtube clips of toddlers. Admittedly the film makers have attempted to add some kind of plot, characters and dialog but it is all so lackluster it might as well not be there. The tired old jokes, the more-flat-than-cardboard characters and the nonsense plot do nothing but annoy me further. A night in front of the computer checking baby clips on Youtube is much more rewarding than this. "},{"Title":"Talking babies? Talking babies?!","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Yeah, I kid you not, folks! There are talking babies in this crap fest of a movie! What does this remind you of? I'll give you three clues 1) four babies, 2) babies that talk when the adults aren't present, and 3) the babies go on an adventure. If you guess the Rugrats, congratulations, you now made me realize that this movie is ripping off the Rugrats!! Yeah, I'm not kidding you, this movie is ripping off the Rugrats! So anyway, like Cats & Dogs and other bad talking animal movies, the CGI effects are very, very awful and none of the actors feel like they're going to try their best in this movie. Hold it! Did you hear a baby swearing in this movie? I heard it, didn't you? Didn't you?! And one thing about this movie that is so wrong is the giant animatronic baby. Doesn't that give you nightmares? Doesn't it?! This movie is very unbelievably bad it makes Cats & Dogs look like Hayao Miyazaki's Spirited Away! "},{"Title":"Why Did Bob Clark Ever Think This Was A Good Idea?","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" This is the only film franchise to have all of the films in the franchise to be in IMDb's bottom 100 list. I Have to be a pretty sad man to watch these movies. So why not waste any time, I can think of a few good reasons, lets dive right into Baby Geniuses.The film is about a group of baby geniuses who are being watched over by Christopher Lloyd and Kathleen Turner. The main baby named Sly was separated from birth by his twin brother Whit. So the 2 babies get switched and the company takes the wrong baby.This movie is awful. Same complaints as the second. Christopher Lloyd and Kathleen Turner, WHAT ARE YOU DOING IN THIS STUPID ABOMINATION OF A MOVIE?????!!!!!!?????? The jokes are dumb, the story doe not even make sense and this has to be the only film to have not only the worst Saturday Night Fever Parody but the worst running gag in the entire world, Diaper Gravy which is exactly what this movie Is!! Rated PG For Rude Behavior And Dialouge.1hr 35min/95min.BOMB/**** "},{"Title":"This movie is pure diaper gravy...","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" The film is about a crazy lady and her henchmen who are trying to create super-genius babies in controlled laboratory conditions. At the same time, identical twins are being raised outside the lab in order to determine if Dr. Kinder's (that's a subtle name) teaching methods create significantly smarter babies. But, one of the babies in particular is a lot smarter than the Doctor and her henchmen and spends much of the movie hiding or attacking these folks--in a much-dumbed down version of Baby's Day Out. And, when the super-genius baby meets up with the identical twins, he mobilizes them into an elite fighting force.There are several types of bad movies. One are the Ed Wood-style bad movies such as Manos Hands of Fate, Eegah! and The Beast of Yucca Flats. They are ultra-low budget and can't help but suck. With absolutely nothing going for them, you expect these movies to be terrible and usually they're a lot of fun to watch because they are so ineptly made. The second are movies that are vacuous but have reasonably large budgets, such as the awful From Justin to Kelly, Car 54 Where Are You? and Disaster Movie. These are occasionally watchable but generally hurt your brain with the stupidity of it all...and they can't blame the budget for the film being that bad! The third type, and Baby Geniuses is chief among them is like the second--there is a reasonable budget BUT the films manage to do something normal bad movies don't--they are so annoying, so grating that you want to hurt those responsible for making them (please don't...no matter how tempting it might be)! Baby Geniuses is a terrible film that made me ill just to watch it. About the only film that caused as intense a visceral reaction was Jerry Lewis' Cracking Up. With respected and semi-respected Hollywood talent in the film, the only thing that might explain their being in this crap-fest is if the film makers had kidnapped loved ones in order to force people like Kathleen Turner and Christopher Lloyd to star in the movie! Why? Because the basic idea is so dumb and so appealing, you can't see how the actors would have agreed to be in the film (as for Peter MacNicol and Dom DeLuise, this IS a story right up their alley and I can see why they appeared in this film). Plus, even if the actors weren't turned off by the story idea, the dialog must have shouted Suck-Fest as soon as they saw the scripts! Phrases such as diaper gravy (poop) pepper the film in a pathetic attempt at humor. And who could think that the following dialog is funny or remotely appropriate for all audiences?1st Baby--Take off your clothes. 2nd Baby--Well at least you can buy me dinner first.However, if you think watching toddlers do kung fu, punching adults in the crotch (too many times to count), dancing to disco tunes, or many pop culture references, then this film is for you--as is it's 'hilarious' sequel (yes, there IS a sequel--making me wonder a loving God could allow such a film to be made). Imagine, if you can, Look Who's Talking, Baby's Day Out, The Great Escape and 102 Dalmatians all merged into one film and written by particularly stupid and obnoxious 6 year-olds--this is Baby Geniuses--and it clearly has earned its place on IMDb's esteemed Bottom 100--the 100 lowest rated films of all time.By the way, although this was far from the worst part of the film, if you saw this pile of diaper gravy, didn't you wonder how it was that the super-super genius baby was able to make all these pop cultural references? How could a kid raised in perfect conditions in the lab know about the Three Stooges, The Jerry Springer Show or Terminator?! "},{"Title":"Disgusting.","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Rant If you were to go back in time a hundred years ago and tell people about what film making would become, then you would certainly destroy a lot of hopes.I really cannot understand how this got the green light,its really that awful. Everything from acting to special effects is just poorly done.The Plot A big corporation plans to harness the power of the infant intellect. Ridiculous? Sounds it. Heres the catch apparently every infant is a genius before a certain age(think its 3 years old). Sounds like it could have potential. One baby,Sylvester or Sly breaks out of the labs and tries to tell people about the...or does he want to find his brother? I don't know.You see,the plot is that forgettable. Its just incoherent and the baby dubbing makes you wonder again and again if this was some cruel joke by an evil film company.Not recommended unless your children were bad...real bad...like wreck your 1960s convertible bad. "},{"Title":"the first time that I had to GET OUT of the cinema room before movie end","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" the first time that I had to GET OUT of the cinema room before movie end!!I was late for a movie, and my friends and I have not other option that this movie. I just resisted 15 minutes of this movie, and... I had to run outside the room with my friends!!! WORST FILM EVER WATCHED BY ME IN A CINEMA ROOM!! The best part of the movie were the trailers!!! Now, before going to the cinema... I read the comments about the film.That's the better way to enjoy a movie. Best regards "},{"Title":"The Most Dangerous Film of the Year","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Baby Geniuses poses by far the greatest threat to moviegoers in 1999, Annette Bening's In Dreams notwithstanding.First, this pseudo-comedy possesses a heretofore unseen capacity to completely waste your time--two perfectly good hours that you could have spent on something far more constructive for society, like playing video games. Second, Baby Geniuses is basically completely inane fluff that makes BASEketball look like a brilliant exploration of the human condition. Consisting of tired Culkinesque kick the adult in the groin sight gags, Baby Geniuses is embarrassingly unfunny. Third, and most worrisome, this flick has the potential to create havoc with population control. After enduring two hours of these insufferable little brats, most viewers will opt for immediate tubal ligation. On the other hand, the tiny Carrie Robbins character (played by the most adorable little twins imaginable) was SO SWEET I decided to run out and impregnate my girlfriend.This is an AWFUL, PAINFUL film, and I just hope I've been able to warn you in time. With so many drawbacks (lame plotline, silly dialogue, Kathleen Turner and Peter MacNicol as main characters, poor special effects the babies' computer-simulated mouths are completely out of sync with their words) it's amazing this film got made at all. Oh, wait, it's a Sony picture. That explains everything. "}{"Title":"99 Dalmations","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" People hate this movie. I'm not sure I know why.Oh, it is bad, but other movies that are just as bad are not seen as so&#x97; with the plot being the some sort of thin adventure. This is actually a bit more interesting than usual because the end is slightly untraditional.&#x97; with the production values, and especially the score not being any worse, say than your standard Sandra Bullock fair.&#x97; with gimmick no more of a cheap shot than talking dogs or pigs.It had enough happy family stuff at the end to comply with the code. It had almost no good jokes but what does? In the place of jokes, you had the kids laughing at each other, and a few smirking diaper comments. It worries me that I cannot see it. Why is this a failure, and say, 101 Dalmations a hit.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Not a kids movie","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I'll start with the positive. Watching the facial expressions and movements of the kids was unreal. How did they get kids so young to cooperate and play out these scenes? How much of it is CG and how much is luck of the shot? Impressive if you have never seen such a thing before.I began to watch this movie with my nephew on DVD. He definitely didn't see the rest of it. The crude dialog coming out of baby's mouths and the endless amount of foul language in the film from the adults-- including scenes in the presence of the children forced to me find something more suitable. It was just crazy. The story line that revolves around children and random jokes for kids clearly isn't aimed at adults. But the dialog is no where near suitable for kids. The other reviews go in depth about the script flaws more...But the disappointments began before the movie even started. The first thing I noticed off the bat after hitting play was the film transfer was extremely bad. Washed out with film scratches and flaws galore. The compression on the DVD was the worst of it. I have honestly never seen such a poorly compiled DVD before. Fade to black moments in the film showed random huge purple pixels shifting at every key frame on a plain black screen. Some scenes looked soft almost to the point of being out of focus, audio was a bit over-compressed and very boomy sounding. How can a 13 million dollar film backed by tristar have this poor post production, not to mention who would pay 13 million to have this film made? Like all bad movies if you know what you're about to watch and are up for a cheesy flick it just might work. But consider this review a warning to parents and those who find mediocre quality DVDs unwatchable. Not what you'd expect to find on the shelf of a big name video rental store. "},{"Title":"I actually puked while watching this film.","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Sure, you could add the fact that I was sick too, but seriously... this movie sucks.To tell you the truth, I had some doubts about even writing this... I still have inconceivable nightmares about just how bad this turkey is. And to top it off, they actually had the balls to release a sequel.I've seen some terrible movies in my life... Super Mario Bros. comes to mind instantly... but this is the one film that I could never conquer. I still to this day cannot for the life of me watch this film under any circumstances. It really is the worst movie ever made. That's the most honest statement I've ever made in my entire life, and I wholeheartedly mean that.Anyways, Baby Geniuses has four... count 'em, FOUR washed up actors. Not only that, they were actually good actors at one time. Christopher Lloyd, Kathleen Turner, Peter MacNichol and Dom DeLuise all showed up, but somehow forgot to act. Wow, and I thought Rat Race had it bad...Yeah, so the entire movie revolves around the evil corporation that Lloyd and Turner run. Apparently, all babies can talk in a secret code, and it's their job to try and break it. They have a baby, nicknamed Sly, I believe, and he's apparently really super smart. Well, security's not so good around the corporation, so Sly escapes and uses his - i'm not joking here - mad karate skills to finish his victims off. And, SURPRISE! He has a twin, whose parents are MacNichol and Kim Cattrall.Holy crap, it BURRRRRRRRNNNNNSSSSSS!!!!!Anyways, yeah, you already know the ending. MacNichol and DeLuise stink up the rest of the movie with bad acting. Of course, with a script this bad, they could have done a lot worse. And, like there was any doubt, the obnoxiously stupid parents beat the obnoxiously stupid evil overlords. Jesus Christ, avoid this movie just like your mother-in-law at all costs. "},{"Title":"Baby Geniuses is one bad movie","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Baby Geniuses is an utterly charmless movie about babies who talk in smart-aleck sound bites and take on adults in physical action scenes. It's neither genuinely funny nor entertaining, unless babies left unsupervised to run amock with digitally-altered potty-mouths is your kind of entertainment.The story plots good against evil, but even the standard Disney-type formula outclasses this witless flick by light years. This is a bad movie.Baby Geniuses is about 18-month-olds, played actually by three- or fouryear-olds, and voiced-over by six- or eight-year-olds. It might have been a much better movie simply if adult actors had voiced the baby characters, either in adult voices, or adults doing children's voices, ala The Rugrats. The young voice `actors' are a terrible choice, given that the voices-which emerge from bizarre, special-effects mouths- have to deliver the dialogue that awkward toddlers can't possibly otherwise emote.In a real movie, focusing the camera on the reactions of the supporting actors in a scene might propel the story as well as well as the actor who's speaking. Baby Geniuses attempts to pass off this technique, as the majority of the talking-baby scenes show the back of the talking toddlers' heads. But the other children in the scene who are supposed to be listening and reacting are looking around puzzled and distracted, just like real toddlers do.The real reason we see the backs of so many talking heads undoubtedly was to save the effort of having to create the digital mouth movements for those lines. Unfortunately, the shortcut is painfully obvious.Some of the movie sets, especially the indooor theme park created by the villains, (played by Kathleen Turner and Christopher Lloyd) to prove their superior `Kinder' child-rearing method, look high-budget indeed.But despite slick sets, the movie was technically awful too. I noticed the same extra (an easy-to-spot, attractive blonde woman wearing the same outfit with purse on her right shoulder) walk through scenes in the same shopping mall again and again, even though the scenes span two separate days!The acting of the `adults' was just as atrocious, especially the dim but psychic father played by TV's Ally McBeel co-star Peter MacNicol, speaking via mobile phone to a brainwashed employee who had kidnapped the children of their family-owned day care facility, instead of being outraged or even alarmed, he courteously sets the phone down in dumb silence.Unless you or I were drugged up to obliterate the talking baby voices in our heads, we could have ad-libbed something for better effect in that scene, which was just one of many bad ones for MacNicol. This kind of bad acting reminded me of a twenty-some year-old B movie called H.O.T.S., where the lame plot and worse acting at least more honestly served up that movie's real purpose, which was campy T&A. This movie doesn't have as good an excuse.But let's get real this movie wasn't made to please critics, it was made to appeal to the 10 year-old and under movie-going crowd. And to be fair, the eight year-old boy we saw the movie with walked out of the theater saying it was as good as A Bug's Life, and his high bar for kids movies, The Rugrats Movie.But any conscientious parent should be offended by the several scenes of adult humor in Baby Geniuses. In one scene the baby hero needs a new disguise, and he instructs a baby girl in her stroller to take her clothes off. She says something like `Couldn't you at least buy me dinner first,' and the scene plays out to where he's wearing her clothes, she's smoking the cigar from his previous disguise, and she pleads `Please call me. I'm listed.' Is this kids' humor?Bad movie stats start to pile up Christopher Lloyd's character hardly shows up as the mastermind Kinder. More time must have been spent on his unusual hair and makeup than he is on screen. Any washed-up character actor would have been more right for the part of Kinder as played to Turner's empty villainness.And what's going on with Lloyd's carreer when his considerable talent (think Taxi, Back to the Future, even his manic My Favorite Martian) is wasted on those omnipresent 10-10-fillintheblank long distance telephone commercials, and now this movie.Finally, the movie includes an inexplicable salute to country singer Randy Travis, who sticks out like a sore thumb (or perhaps steals the scene, I'm not sure which) in a cameo appearance, and then reappears at the end of an already too-long movie (almost two hours for cripe's sake) to sing a sweet song about kids, over insufferable slow-motion clips of the movie we just saw, which isn't even over yet. You could almost hear the collective gasp of frustration in the theater as this weird music video unmercifullly delayed the ending credits.Save your money, rent an old Star Wars movie, or better yet, stay home and have game night, and wait for Star Wars Episode One to come out this Spring. "},{"Title":"Indescribably Horrible","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I have enjoyed (and reviewed) a lot of bad movies over the years. I have liked Mesa of Lost Women, Untamed Women, Eegah!, The Beast of Yucca Flats, and many others. These films have always had no-name casts, very low production values, and bad scripts. They're enjoyable in a so-bad-it's-good way.Baby Geniuses is completely different. It has a big-name cast (including Kathleen Turner, Kim Cattrall, Dom DeLuise, and Christopher Lloyd), a pretty big budget (reportedly $12 million), and a well-known director, Bob Clark. With all those things going for it, this movie is definitely the worst I've ever seen. The script is incredibly bad, and involves evil Drs. Kinder and Heep (Turner and Lloyd) holding babies captive so that they can study baby communication and make big money for their evil corporation. I won't go into any more detail because, well, I'm not sadistic.Turner and Lloyd are not bad under the circumstances, but the story and script are so execrable that the actors don't really have a chance. The movie mostly consists of babies doing supposedly cute things, and the adult actors are left flailing around and trying to salvage this mess. After watching this, I began to wonder if this is the worst film I've seen since I started watching movies in 1960. The Black Bird (1975) came to mind, but that movie seems like Shakespeare compared to Baby Geniuses.This film is so atrociously horrible that I don't think I can really adequately describe it here. Don't watch this movie, even if you're a fan of one of the cast. Trust me. I'm doing you a favor. "},{"Title":"Didn't strike me.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  The movie is sort of like Rugrats, where the babies can talk to each other, but not to older adults. The fact that scientists play around with babies is not my idea of a worthwhile story.  Leave them alone!  I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone. And, I heard that they could make a sequel?  Yikes!   "},{"Title":"Baby Geniuses is like soiled Pampers.","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I was looking forward to this film because I had remembered a comic book series with the same plot.  BUT!  Not only was this the first time I was ever in a movie theater where half the audience demanded their money back before the half-way mark, but it was the first time I ever saw a theater manager shut down a film in a mid-play to apologize to the audience in mass. Bad film?  It makes Ishtar look like Citizen Kane.  This is not a so bad it's campy fun.  This is so bad you'll vomit.  You'll have more fun waiting for it on video and laughing at the people who actually pick it up.  "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Two scientists, Dr. Elena Kinder and Dr. Heep use genius baby studies to fund their Babyco theme park. At age two, the children are due to 'cross over', learn to talk, and forget their universal knowledge. One mischievous toddler, Sly, makes repeated attempts to escape the Kinder lab and one night, he actually succeeds. What Sly does not expect is to run into his twin, Whit, in a mall playground. Although Sly and Whit share a telepathic bond, they have no idea of each other's existence. When the guards from the lab capture Whit, mistaken him for Sly, and take him back to the Kinder lab, Sly is taken home by Whit's adopted mother, who has mistaken him for Whit.Pointless, stupid kid flick made me seriously consider inventing a no star rating. With poorly drawn characterizations and slack direction & performances this doesn't seem worth the effort. Controversial, but hardly worth the fuss.Rated PG for Profanity and Violence.Awesomely Bad Scale * * *1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Just something to impress ignorant people","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I figure if you don't know better about intelligence such as this, then you must be an idiot. I've seen this movie, and watched as the babies wooed the audience with their extensive vocabulary, which really doesn't make much sense. One can be born with intelligence, but it doesn't necessarily mean that you are born with knowledge. Their intelligence is also a contradiction to their physical abilities (i.e. they can't even talk). Their parents seem to be cautious people, and yet their kids still somehow know about the human genitalia and it's reaction to being hit. It's pretty obvious, but this movie is too unrealistic to even be fiction... it's as though the writer wrote the script with some sort of nonfiction prototype and then embellished it continuously until he got to a maximum rate...  "},{"Title":"A load of diaper gravy","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" 'Baby Geniuses' wasn't necessarily a bad idea. The conceit of the movie is that babies are born intelligent and speak a language that only they can understand and that as they grow older the forget it and become like us. A scientist has discovered this and tries to prove it, while some bad guys... OK maybe the plot sounds idiotic, but I have the feeling that something interesting could be done with completely physically inept heroes trying to get away and outsmart the adults that are out to get them. You just need a smart writer. Unfortunately, this movie is extraordinarily stupid. It's like the idea was babies are cute, seeing them do non-baby things will be hilarious was all of the thinking they did before making the actual film. Baby Geniuses doesn't show any inventive thinking, The same jokes get repeated over and over, the unfunny satire makes you wish it would simply go away and nonsensical plot drag this quickly into a near unwatchable mess. To make it even worse, the director knew this movie was complete junk and decided to throw in a last minute music video at the end in the hopes that seeing babies laughing at the sound of Gift Of Love by Randy Travis would make you forget how terrible the movie was. (VHS, January 2012) "}{"Title":"This movie has birth defects . . .","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" If you can imagine sitting next to a machine that makes keys for 92 minutes then you pretty much get the idea of the experience of 'Baby Geniuses'. I've seen bad comedies with cringe-worthy scenes but only a handful of them have a cringe at every single moment. But this stomach turning dreck reaches an all time low.The plot Kathleen Turner plays an evil woman who runs a secret science lab to experiment on babies because she thinks that she may know how they communicate with one another. She wants to find out what universal knowledge babies possess before they gain their understanding of their surrounding. What does she hope to gain? Beats me.One of her nephews named Sly (his brother is named Wit) escapes from her lab by spitting water at his captors, punching them in the crotch and throwing them over his shoulder. This scene is as painful as they come.The movie basically rips-off two good movies 'Look Who's Talking' in which we heard what the babies where saying, and 'Babe' in which the mouths of the farm animals moved when they spoke. The first worked because we never saw the babies talking and they were allowed to still be babies. The second worked because even when the mouths of the animals moved what they said was witty and smart.The infants in 'Baby Geniuses' talk in annoying pop culture buzz-words 'Yo-yo-yo' and 'Don't have a cow' and 'Diaper gravy'. When they speak bad digital effects make their mouths move to synch with the words. You know those cutouts of President Clinton that they use on Conan O'Brien where we see a picture of the President's face but his mouth is someone else's? It's kind of like that.I am not exactly certain at what point 'Baby Geniuses' made me question my faith in mankind but if I had to choose I would say it has to be the point at which a group of infants hypnotize Dom Deluise and force him to pick his nose. Even though this is the worst scene in the movie don't think that the rest of the movie gets elevated from there. At one point a baby disguises himself as an adult in an oversized hat and coat complete with cigar. Another scene allows him to whomp one adult in the crotch with ski not once but three times.When the babies move the special effects move their limbs to do unnatural things. The worst has to be one baby who dresses in a leisure suit so that he can dance like Travolta in 'Saturday Night Fever'. I witness this moment upon my return from a visit to the toilet (I saw it on television) and immediately felt the urge to turn around to go back.The movie is from Bob Clark a director who is hit and miss. He directed the wonderful 'A Christmas Story' but his also directed the dismal 'Porky's'. He directed the wonderfully hammy 'Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things' but he also made 'Rhinestone'. I have seen bad movies come and go but Clark seems to be striving to make 'Baby Geniuses' into a new all-time low. Mission accomplished Mr. Clark. "},{"Title":"It depends...","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I was eight years old when this film came out in 1999 and back then I absolutely loved it. Just recently, after remembering how much I loved it then, I thought it would be fun to watch it again.That was a mistake, because everything about this movie is purely idiotic. What was I thinking? The acting is almost indescribable and the plot is a train wreck.My advice to those out there is that this movie should only be watched by children at the absolute most. Young children and hope that the parents don't have to watch it with them.Kids will love the goofy moments while the parents will cringe. So it depends on your perspective... If you've made it to junior high school, then you'll hate this movie. "},{"Title":"what were they thinking?","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Laughless, stupid, and ultimately dreadful film about a bunch of babies who can talk to each other and know all the secrets of the universe or something. Secrets they must keep safe from evil scientist Turner(in an absolutely pathetic performance) who is power-crazed or something. You have to stop and wonder why this junk was ever even green-lighted. The film tries desperately and fails miserably to make these babies funny. One of the worst films ever. 0/4 "},{"Title":"The director of this film isnt a genius!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  In a few verbs I can describe this movie. AWFUL. STUPID. POINTLESS. DUMB. This has to be the WORST and I mean the WORST childrens movie out there! IT WAS SO AWFUL! The acting was horrible, the plot was pointless, and it just didnt make sense! I would not under any circumstances recommend this movie to anybody! They would HATE me for it! My rating for this awful movie 1/10. AWFUL! JUST AWFUL! "},{"Title":"PLEASE tell me they aren't making a sequel to this...","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  When I logged in to write a review of Baby Geniuses, the title search came up with the shocking news that the sequel is categorised as in production. Even allowing for there being such a wide market for sequels that even Lady and the Tramp has one, I have to ask Why? Granted, this is better than Mega Babies (a French-Canadian animated series about three babies with super powers that often (i.e. always) confuses disgusting and annoying with funny), but what isn't?Co-produced by Jon Voight (proving that Angelina Jolie is only the second most demented project he's been associated with), it plays like a live-action Rugrats with a dash of The Pretender, only without the cartoon's better scripts and characters. The credits are filled with danger signs (Steven Paul did Never Too Young To Die, a bad-beyond-belief spy movie with John Stamos, Vanity, George Lazenby and Gene Simmons; co-story credit goes to effects man Robert Grasmere, and for some reason films where FX people try to get on the creative side almost never come off, notably From Dusk Till Dawn and the remake of Night of the Living Dead), and the film lives down to its premise - crammed with bad jokes (a diaper service truck for P. Oopie Bottoms?), weak acting from kids and adults alike, although Peter MacNicol tries (you don't even get to see Christopher Lloyd chew up the scenery), unconvincing special effects, and an inane script.No wonder this never got released in Britain (not to mention rightfully going down in flames in the US); too patronising for kids and too stupid for adults, this is another discredit for Bob Clark (director of From the Hip, Rhinestone and Loose Cannons - not exactly great credentials for a kiddie flick). Skip this and go for Baby's Day Out (which was more credible and actually funny), Look Who's Talking (or Look Who's Talking Too), or even Honey, I Blew Up The Kid... whose end credit music (by Bruce Broughton) is ripped off in this movie's end credit music (by Paul Zaza). In fact, if I had kids I'd rather they watched Rosemary's Baby than this. "},{"Title":"This hurts.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Who in Hollywood came up with this concept? This has to be one of the most ignorant pieces of junk to come out of a movie studio. It's especially insulting in that I saw this for my birthday last year. Okay, I didn't think it was going to be Casablanca or anything like that, but I never thought I'd actually see something like this in a theater. When I went to go see it with my family, there were only 4 other people there, so there was a total of 6 people in the theater. Full house tonight. Anyways, after awhile I could tell this wasn't getting any better, so I just sat there yelling stuff at the screen, throwing popcorn, etc. The other people there couldn't have been enjoying this more than anyone else, so I'm sure they were probably greatful for my comments. In other words, I pulled an MST3K. Worst birthday present of my life. In conclusion, once I get some money I'm going down to the video store, by a copy, take it home, take it to the backyard, jam a firecracker in it, light the fuse, and watch it fly! HEY HEY HEY! "},{"Title":"WarningThis movie may cause serious illness or death.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This is the worst movie ever to come out of Hollywood.Christopher Lloyd has seen better performances like BTTF. It's full of stupid slapstick and horrible acting.This movie was so bad that i turned it off halfway through and took it back to the store.Save yourself the pain and agony and DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!!!! "},{"Title":"Razzie Awards here we come!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This will definitely be at the Razzies.  I just know it.  Watching wall paper peel for 20 years is way more entertaining then this. "},{"Title":"Stupefyingly bad","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I took my then 6-year old son to see this as part of a kids' summer movie series. Five minutes into this movie, and I could literally feel my IQ falling and that I was slipping into a coma of stupidity, but I thought, if he likes it, I'll stay here and sit through it for him. Maybe this humor is perfect for a preschooler. A little farther in, I started to worry that the movie might be damaging his developing brain, so I kept an eye on him to see his reactions. It turns out that he thought it was awful too. I asked him if he wanted to leave and go somewhere (anywhere!) else. To my relief and pride, he said yeah, this movie is really dumb. We escaped with our sanity intact, and I vowed never to watch another movie with the word baby in the title for fear that it might even be 1/100th as bad as this one.This is truly the WORST.MOVIE.EVER. "},{"Title":"Horrific!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  A group of scientists kidnap young children and try to figure out the secrets of the universe by decoding baby langugae. Of course, there's a kung-fu master baby named Sebastian who beats them up, and a lots of babies who talk to each other but not to the audience. This movie was intororably bad on almost every level. I am almost ashamed of Christopher Lloyd, who is one of my favorite actors, for being involved in this Look Who's Talking ripping-off pile of diaper gravy. "}{"Title":"I want my 94 minutes of life back,","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Sadly, i can't get that back. The movie was boring with its childish brand of humor and terrible acting. I watched this movie in school as a award for the students who got 4.0. Ironic, isn't it? The movie insulted my intelligence along with every kid in the room. I knew it was a family film so i was amazed at the amount of swearing in the film. It just goes to show how far our culture has gone below typical American values (now dead) I would suggest this movie to kids 8 and under, otherwise, just don't watch it! "},{"Title":"zzzzzzz! Don't wake me, so I never have to see this dreck again.","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This movie does not deserve a rating at all.  Well, maybe negative infinity or something.I fell asleep several times during this movie (must be a light sleeper to have actually awoken at all from this Baby Geniuses invoked comatose state).The theatre ushers were gracious enough to sweep me out with the half empty popcorn and drink containers.  Shudder to think what might have happened if I awoke during a second consecutive screening of... AAAAAAAACK! "},{"Title":"Please make the hurting stop","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie on television over the holiday.  The kindest comment I can make about this film is that at least the producer didn't instead make Baby Vampires.Judging by the current rating of 2.4, I'm not alone on my thoughts about this film.  There are many reasons this film is universally reviled, and if you heed any advice from IMDB, you must believe the 57% of people who gave this film a 1.  Even if you like children, watching a baby in top hat and tails dance like Fred Astaire has got to make your skin crawl.  Trust me, it's as bad as it sounds.The talents of several seasoned actors are flushed down the toilet in this film  Kathleen Turner, Christopher Lloyd, and Peter MacNicol.  The only reason I can think of for them to participate in this garbage is that they all must have wanted houses in Aspen.I see that a sequel is in the works, and if there is a God, it will go straight to video because I can't imagine people actually wanting to sit in a theater to see how much worse it can get.  Please make the hurting stop.Oh well, at least it isn't Baby Vampires. "},{"Title":"Not the kind of bad that makes you smile. This is numbing.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Man, this is one putrid piece of filth. Sorry, but anyone who can just let Baby Geniuses slide with some generic comment like, What did you expect? needs to evaluate how they watch movies. Those who saw this in theaters or rented it should be mad, because they lost 90 minutes of a very short life. BG is actually painful to watch all the way to the end. The plot is about intelligent babies who are kidnaped by an eeevil scientist who wants to win a Nobel Prize (I think). But since that would never ever EVER interest ANY child, the creators threw in some poo poo jokes, since, as everyone knows, that's what the kids today love. But wait, there's more! Adults can laugh when the main baby dresses up as John Travolta from Saturday Night Fever! Ha, remember that movie honey? Ah, how clever. Seriously, this entire movie is just a bunch of moments for the audience to choke on their drink and scream, WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?! For example, the 'hilarious' part where the main baby beats up a homeless person, Stooge style. Yep, he even goes, Whoop-whoop-whoop-whoop-whoop-whoop! Or when the kid dons a tuxedo and twirls a cane like Fred Astaire, or the part where he becomes some bizarre G-Funk stereotype with a basketball, or when the robot baby and clown beat up security guards, or...whew, this is exhausting. There are two moments that really take the cake, though1. Towards the finale of the movie (which can't come soon enough) we are actually shown old footage of the babies, a montage that's set to tender music. Is the audience supposed to ACTUALLY be thinking, Wow, we've been everywhere with this lil' guys. I've really come to love their antics! We'll have to see this on Pay-Per-View. Blech.2. The movie actually has the gall to exit with the main baby saying something like, If they want me to do the sequel for less than $2 million, they're CRAZY. I really, really hope they're kidding. "},{"Title":"Inappropriate language ruins this movie, big time!!","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Some puzzling questions about this piece of junk....Aside from the horrible acting and awful plot, who was the 'genius' who decided to keep in all of the foul language?  Do they know that 4 and 5 year olds will be coming to see this movie?  Do they actually think that these kids and their parents approve of such words as 'ass', 'hell' and 'damn' all the time?  Come on - who do they think their target audience is going to be for this film, teenagers and college kids??!!!  These words could've been easily cleaned up with softer, more appropriate words.   But nooooooooo.... they have to ruin it by leaving in all the 'potty mouth' words.Yeah, I know the movie's rated PG, but the swearing in this film was fairly excessive for pretty young children.  I've seen other PG movies with my 5 year old daughter, and they were never as bad as this. BEWARE>>> "},{"Title":"The Story Just Never Had a Shot","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Baby Geniuses (1999) * (out of 4)Nutty scientists (Kathleen Turner, Christopher Lloyd) are doing experiments on babies turning them into super smart kids but when one escapes and gets mixed up with his twin on the outside then all sorts of trouble follows. I watched BABY GENIUSES after hearing about how bad it was for well over a decade. Just about every review book gave it a BOMB rating and many called it the worst film of the decade while others went further calling it one of the worst of all time. There are many different types of bad movies and there's no question that this here is one of them but at the same time I have a hard time labeling it as one of the worst because it's obvious there is some talent to be found. I say that because director Bob Clark handles the material about the best way you possibly could have. The film has a professional look to it and I thought that for the most part it was technically good. I'd also say that the actors gave it their all and none of them embarrass themselves with their performance. Turner, Lloyd, Kim Cattrall, Peter MacNicol and Dom DeLuise aren't that bad. What really kills this film is the central story. I mean, serious, who wants to watch two babies talking sexually to one another? In one of the dumbest scenes we see a boy and girl talking dirty to one another and I really wondered what the writer was doing to think this would be funny. The entire bit with the talking kids was just rather creepy and it was certainly never funny. The concept was just a failure from the word go so I really don't think anything that Clark and company did could have saved the movie so even though they did their jobs as well as they could, the material itself still meant we were left with a stinker. BABY GENIUSES is just downright weird, creepy and it's certainly never funny. "},{"Title":"Movies must be judged be its intended audience","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Having said that this is one of the worst movies ever if you are above 8. It is truly horrid. I watched ti with my 10 year old kid next door and he changed the channel. It is one of the worst movies Ive seen "},{"Title":"Congrats.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Congradulations Baby Geniuses you've just won the toilet paper award for worst movie of the millennium. What are you going to do now? Done right this could have been a good movie(notice I said could have). But yeesh it's Howard the Duck all over again, If they had cut out the language and the potty jokes this would have been a good family film but, sadly they try to make it a new age comedy, and it fails miserably. "},{"Title":"Baby Poo","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Jeeeeeeez-uuuuuuus!!! Anyone who went willingly to this movie(which I didn't) what WERE you smokin'? I've never seen something so mind-boggling bad. The babies were disgusting and creepy. It makes me want to cry when I think about all the money and time spent making this atrocity. The disaster-makers (I refuse to call them film-makers) of this....thing were either sniffing glue or baby poo-which was probably a lot more enjoyable than watching the result of their efforts. My first instinct was to put knitting needles in my nostrils and slam by head down as hard as I could. I'm so embarrassed to be in the position of writing this that I can't make myself acknowledge that I'm the same person who has publicly worshiped cinematic wonders like A Clockwork Orange, The Rocky Horror Picture Show and Velvet Goldmine. So I am, for this review only, safely and happily Anonymous.    "},{"Title":"OH. MY. GOD.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Goodness gracious me! Whose diapers did this smelly gravy ooze from? Who came up with such a terrible idea? And who allowed it to be submitted onto celluloid???The worst things about this Wonderfully Bad Flick rivals the best things in Battlefield Earth. So I guess that must mean both movies are the very, very worst I have ever, ever, seen.THIS MOVIE IS UTTERLY HIDEOUS! DO NOT SEE IT!I made the stupid mistake (which will cost me dearly no doubt) of sitting there and watching it during my lunch break at work one day.I could not for the life of me figure out why the 'bad guy grown-up' wanted to find out what babies say to each other. Like, who cares already? I could not figure out why the mouths move out of synch with the voices, but I figured the C.G.I must've been done by trained chimps, or the babies themselves. *(look at all the outs in this paragraph! This movie has lowered my IQ to 2!)*If you relish having your intelligence insulted, enjoy B grade movies, or you love the Teletubbies, THEN WATCH THIS FLICK! OTHERWISE AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE!!!  "}{"Title":"This is pure garbage!!","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" This very movie is probably one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my whole life! In fact, this movie made me dumber and dumber with each minute I had watched! And now, I have an hour and a half of my life that I can never get back! And why, you may ask? Because of this foul smelling, vomit inducing, putrid chunk of diaper gravy!! The only good thing about this movie was when the end credits popped up! Sure, there was good actors like Kathleen Turner, Christopher Lloyd, and even Dom faffing Deluise; but I wouldn't have guessed that the director of this movie, Bob Clark, had directed The Christmas Story. What would drive oneself to make such a horrible movie? Bob Clark should've realised that the general plot was too dumb to make it as a whole movie and scrap the entire project! That way, he wouldn't have made Baby Geniuses 2 (which was the last movie he ever made), and Baby Geniuses 3 (which I think was made by Jon Voight). I would rate this a zero out of ten, but this rating system only goes as low as one. All I can say is stay away from this movie at all costs!! "},{"Title":"Stand in awe","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I say stand in awe, because every film student will want to see this.  Not because it's entertaining or humorous or will help them out, it's because this film stinks like the babies diapers.  I don't think a worse film has come around in quite a long while.  But, for film people, this is good so people will know how to learn from their mistakes (or want to see Dom DeLuise).  The plot is ridiculous, the characters are stupid, and the script has more flaws than Mickey Rourke.  Don't get me wrong, I liked Bob Clark's Porky's (it's one of the funniest teenage films ever). Kids will hate this, parents will throw up after seeing this, and film students will think this film is a brilliant example of how they can make their s***y films better after seeing this piece of crap.  F (lowest rating) "},{"Title":"Now I have never seen that bad of a film","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Baby Geniuses is by far one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Why would any director want to make a film like this and then make a sequel. He should be fired. They should get Donald Trump in there and fire him. This movie was so terrible. The acting, the dialouge, and definitely the plot was terrible. I can't stand this film. I'm never going to see this movie again in my life. Terrible, just terrible. Write me a ticket when were done with these pathetic films. Sometimes, directors are going to have to realize what there doing to their films because if they are trying to make movies like these there never going to big directors. These movie was flat out worthless and neck grabbing!Hedeen's outlook 0/10 No stars F  "},{"Title":"hardly entertaining","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  i was really expecting much more. Baby Genuises looked like a much much worse copy/imitation of the wonderful movie Look Who's Talking. i was disappointed. there was no real special effects. it looked fake, although that is not the reason why i watched it. it was out of curiosity.it was ok, but not on my list. "},{"Title":"Why don't you all get off its case and get real!","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I have finally the proof I have sought - that IMDb visitors vote first and think later! (those at least WITH any such capability). You people need professional help! Here we have BABY GENIUSES (admittedly, a long way short of a memorable and stylistic film) pulling a user-rating of 2.4. Thus you would have us believe this film is WORSE than the God-awful MOTHER'S DAY ( 4.3), THE ALLIGATOR PEOPLE (4.2), the infamous TURKEY SHOOT (4.3), THE TELEPHONE - This is as bad as films get!!! (2.8), ATTACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES (3.8), DEATH WISH 4 (3.4)..even PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE (3.3) then TWO OF A KIND frequently voted elsewhere the worst film of all time (3.8) and what really IS the worst and most disgusting film of the century I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE (4.2)Wake up and smell the roses! As ONE mercifully intelligent reviewer states, this film is no more or less than that it promoted itself as being. A comedy about super-babies. You think it was taking itself seriously?  An in-depth study perhaps of the potential for genetic childhood advancement?Blake French in the first-up review takes 545 words to get the point across that the film didn't exactly ring his (her) bell. All that was necessary was a simple I hate this movie!OK OK, I'm prejudiced - I have kids and they enjoyed it, tasteless little no-brainers that they are. Well guess what?  I enjoyed it too! Sure it was manipulative, a tad short on intelligence, an awesome waste of Kathleen Turner and Christopher Lloyd...but it WAS what it WAS! Yeah and I enjoyed the Saturday Night Fever sequence as well!You want reality cinema? go watch 16mm  Me? I'll stick with fantasy any day! "},{"Title":"Cute Movie","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Despite what everyone else is saying, I liked this movie.  I am a fan of the Rugrats and this is like the live - action part.  The special effects are great and the movie is funny. I would suggest this movie to most people. "}]