[{"Title":"Confusing and Fascinating and Worth Repeating","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've watched this movie less as a coherent whole and more as an interrupted series of brilliant little moments.  There is the scene where Catherine Deneuve is riding in the car explaining the philosophical nature of money. It didn't belong, but it was a very nice scene.  There is the scene where Daniel Auteuil and Laurence Cote chat over his breakfast in a hotel and he sees her laugh for the first time.  Nicely set up.  Then there is the scene where Deneuve and Auteuil go to the Opera. The plot is muddled, but the actors provide fascinating little moments. Props to Techine for incredible direction with attention to character insight.  "},{"Title":"Techine does great crime film","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a fine effort by Andre Techine describing a messy triangle between a philosophy professor (Deneuve), a grim, harried detective (Auteuil) and the teenaged girl they are both in love with (Laurence Cote). The girl has joined the crime family that the cop has escaped from--Alex's brother has just been killed by police in a shoot-out while trying to steal luxury cars, and Alex must move very carefully when he returns home for the funeral. All these matters are handled very adeptly by the director, whose early works I confess to finding dull and lifeless exercises in style (Barocco!).I can't say enough about Deneuve's performance; she has left the glamour behind in her 50's and just gives us one fine role after another. Marie makes it clear she has a special affection for Juliette I don't love women, I love Juliette. Her tolerance for Alex's clumsy attentions after Juliette's disappearance is beautifully done. Auteuil's attraction is more problematic; you can sense that there hasn't been much affection in his life and allowing Juliette to get close to him endangers his efforts to remain a loner. Finally, praise to Laurence Cote for her bravura blend of elegance and punk-rock; a wonderful new star. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, if slightly puzzling","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A love triangle.  A crime story.  A drama about fraternal conflict.  All could make fine stories on their own, but in this film they're thrown together, and then given a philosophical spin (appropriate, since one of the characters is a philosophy professor).  It's also more character-driven than you'd expect from this type of story; we are taken into the character's motivation, so we understand their actions, rather than have them driven by plot machinations.  And it's done like a novel, flashing back and forth, so actions unfold gradually to reveal another layer.  Unfortunately, as, it seems, with many films from France, the story doesn't so much end as stop. This may be appropriate with something like, say, UN COEUR EN HIVER, but it left me feeling a little cheated here.  Still, this is worthwhile viewing.Of the actors, the only ones which are immediately familiar to me are Daniel Auteuil and Catherine Deneuve.  Auteuil is playing someone who has trouble expressing himself, a character he seems to specialize him, based on what I've seen of his films (JEAN DE FLORETTE/MANON OF THE SPRING and UN COEUR EN HIVER), and he does another fine job here.  I've never been a fan of Deneuve; I usually find her too inexpressive and icy.  Here, however, she plays a character you usually don't find in crime films; an older woman having an affair with someone younger (here, a woman) who isn't fading or scheming.  She makes Marie, who at first seems didactic, fully human. "},{"Title":"Before Christ was a time of orgies. Then came love.","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" How to describe this film in about 25 words. I agonized over that considerably. It really defies a pithy description.Is it a crime story? Daniel Auteuil (Caché, The Valet) is a cop from a family of criminals. His big brother is killed in a botched car theft, and he is piecing things together. Of course, he is not formally investigating as it is his family involved, and also his (girlfriend, lover, whatever) is also a part of it.It is, at the same time a love story. A love triangle between Alex (Auteuil), Marie (Catherine Deneuve), and Juliette (Laurence Côte). Alex is just using Juliette to let off some steam, but does grow to love her. Marie is madly in love with her. The relationships and the criminal enterprise are intertwined to the point where you really have great difficulty describing just what the point of it all is.Me? I just enjoyed the great performances of Deneuve and Auteuil and Côte, as well as Juliette's brother (Benoît Magimel). That was enough. "},{"Title":"Unlikable characters in a likable film","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I DVR'd this film in spite of a two-star rating from Comcast, because I like Daniel Auteuil and Catherine DeNeuve. How bad could it be? I wasn't disappointed. It begins with a mystery-who killed the father of the cynical little kid? And slowly breaks open the story, revealing the characters as it reveals the criminal enterprise that brought them all together. Most of them-including the little kid-are not family-friendly. This isn't a family film. A cop who hates his brother and is in turn hated by their father, who tells him, face to face, that he would have preferred that the cop had been killed instead. The dead man's son seems to despise his entire family, including his mother, and his uncle, the cop. Who, in turn, doesn't like kids. The cop's girlfriend doesn't like him much, and he really doesn't want to deal with her except for sex. But as others have noted about this film on this forum, the director pulls out just enough unexpected gilded moments to make it enjoyable to watch-like a middle-aged college professor delivering a 3-minute dissertation on the position of money in western philosophy to a professional car thief during a nighttime ride-as a passenger- through the streets of Lyon. At the car thief's request. That sort of theater of the Absurd approach is one thing I like about French films. They're dependable that way. "},{"Title":"Beautiful imagery tells an odd tale of unique characters","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps the subtitles failed to do justice to the movie, but the visual construction of Les Voleurs crosses all boundaries.  The complexities of the  plot can be confusing; however, the visual imagery used in the film helps reinforce the characteristics of each relationship the film studies.  All in all, a brilliant film to watch if you feel up to reading the subtitles. "},{"Title":"A crime family raises a new member, while Daniel Auteuil and Catharine Deneuve compete for the affections of (female) Laurence Cote","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Les Voleurs (1996) is a neo-noir of a different kind, one that brings forward a love triangle and the inner workings of a crime family. It's an interesting and quite good movie that holds one's attention, but I wouldn't call it especially gripping. The story and characters are offbeat but most are still reasonably realistic. It's smoothly written, acted and filmed.The title Thieves reflects the focus on a family of car thieves, from grandfather to son (Didier Bezace) on down to his 10-year old son (Julien Riviere). However, apart from a central scene involving a car theft, the story has little action. It's also not a psychological thriller. It's concerned primarily with its characters and their relationships. It generates decent suspense even so, while telling the story from the points of view of 4 characters at different times that embrace their conflicts and interactions.Bezace's brother (Daniel Autueil) is a cop, and the two brothers do not get along. The story opens with the death of Bezace. The flashback structure reveals what happened. In the family's gang is loyal outsider Benoit Magimel. He has a sister, Laurence Cote, who as a shoplifter comes to Autueil's attention. She has an affair with him and simultaneously with a philosophy professor, Catherine Deneuve. This creates one major conflict in the story but also one coming-together as Auteuil and Deneuve cooperate at one point for the sake of the much younger and erratic Cote who gets more deeply involved in the gang's work, due to Bezace's insistence and despite her brother's objection.Auteuil's character is very well-drawn. He's a world-class actor too, making almost any film he's in a worthwhile watch. Here he plays a humorless, bitter and suspicious cop who has seen the underside of human life for too long. Deneuve's character is unusual, a woman who has been happily married, has children and grandchildren, and then falls in love with Cote. I didn't find it believable. There are those who always rave about Deneuve's acting. I do not see it. To me she is usually sleepwalking or staring through her parts. The character of the 10-year old boy is very well drawn and acted. It's a high point of the movie. The depictions of the family and gang are all pointed and another plus for the movie. "},{"Title":"Maybe these comments are spoilers","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sure, there were some good things about Les Voleurs. And if it could have sustained its mood and its so-called plot up to the end of the film, I'd have given it more stars.It was interesting that almost all comments have been positive. I guess nobody noticed something rather obvious towards the conclusion, and if they had thought about it, they'd have understood why they were a bit baffled by the movie. The cast started baling out of the movie towards the end. Catherine Deneuve vanished. Her absence was explained by someone telling the hero that she had committed suicide. Off camera, no less, with no indication that that might happen. Then the young heroine, Deneuve's lover, disappeared. Where did she go? Oh yeah, someone mentioned that she'd gone to Marseilles. Oh really? I didn't notice her packing.So the director cleverly covered for them. Were his stars fed up? Was the shoot going overtime? Had the production run out of money? Anyway, finally he's left with the kid to come back to, the same one he opened the movie with. At least it gave him a couple of bookends, but what was between them was a plot with no satisfactory conclusion.Too bad. This could have been a fine movie, but it never got finished.Jelby, Victoria, B.C. "},{"Title":"How do you say Whatever! in French?","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thieves has Techine at the helm with Deneuve and Auetuil in the spotlight and critical plaudits aplenty. However, my reaction at the end of the two hour flick was Yeah, so???.  Telling of the intertwined lives of a cop and his brother and a girl and her lover and a handful of other people, this character driven  flick wanders to and fro interminably, jumping around in time,  examining the details of their fatalistic and pragmatic lives as they fuss and stew and brood over the this and that of their existence.  Given subtitles and a soup thin story with no moral, no message, no hero, no villain, just character study heaped upon character study and no character that's even likeable, Thieves will not have much appeal for the masses. Recommended for French speakers or French film buffs only. (B) "},{"Title":"Interesting but uneven and overlong.","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has a complex, multi-layered structure that grabs your interest...but not much substance underneath. There's no real mystery to the plot, and no real revelations about human nature either. Well-acted all around - including a little boy who is wise way beyond his years. (**) "}]