[{"Title":"Raunchy but often extremely funny!","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Come on, when you're planning on seeing a movie entitled Booty Call you're obviously not anticipating a Disney comedy.  This film delivers just as much raunch as its title suggests.  The comedy is sometimes overdone and sometimes plagued by lame sitcom material, but I still got tons of laughs.  Jamie Foxx is a terrific comic actor, and he delivers many funny--and memorable--one-liners.  Even when the story runs flat, he livens it up with his quirky sense of humor.  There's also a good cameo by multi-talented comedian Bernie Mac, who has some of the funniest cameo roles in movie history.  I enjoyed the two Middle Eastern guys who worked at the convenience store.  Sure, they were stereotyped caricatures of what a foreigner at a corner store or 7 Eleven would act like, but they were still extremely funny.  This film has a chock full of outrageous, yet original moments.  The argument in the Chinese restaurant is a classic!  If you're looking for good, clean fun--Booty Call is NOT the movie to see!  But if you're looking for big laughs, no matter how raunchy and profane, you will have a blast!  Don't leave this call on hold!My score  7 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Non - Stop laughs.","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forget race. Forget age. Forget social status. We all know the perils of getting, and giving, some; because of that, the humor of this movie is universal. This is one of those unbelievably rare comedies that is funny all the way through. Not only that, there are so many jokes and gags, that you will probably miss some of them because you're too busy laughing at the last one. Excellent movie to rent for a stay-at-home date.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most mindlessly hilarious movies ever made.  Definitely Jamie Foxx's best.  Although the middle is kind of slow (with the exception of the convenience store - Are we going to do this or what Judge?) the movie as a whole has some of the best lines ever for a beer-fest, watch-it-with-the-guys Saturday afternoon movie. See the movie for the writing, stay for the dance in the nightclub where Tommy Davidson busts out the best dance moves on reel until Rush Hour ) If you're even remotely a fan of outrageous trash talking and completely random lines (Was ya gonna wait till I turned into a butterfly? and You need a cigarette to bring you down? LOL!) then this movie is a must see. Otherwise stay away as this is going to offend and bore you.10/10 for some, and a 3/10 for others.  Watch at your discretion! "},{"Title":"You'll laugh 'til your booty falls off","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Booty Call is one of the funniest movies to come along in many years. Jamie Foxx absolutely steals the show. He has some really funny, memorable lines, and is adept at physical humor. Even though the material is of an overtly sexual nature, the message of the film is definitely that monogamy is cool. A real over-achiever of a film. Was probably made on a shoestring budget, but delivers more laughs than any high-priced Eddie Murphy comedy. A must-see!   "},{"Title":"Better than most people think","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I know this movie has it's critics only being rated 4.9/10, but so many characters in this movie led by Jamie Foxx were hilarious. I first saw this movie in 1999 and waited until 2006 for it's release on DVD.Booty Call is a comedy based on the dating scene and the struggle it can become; especially if you're a guy. Jamie Foxx played Bunz who was practically a dog on heat going to any length to score before sunrise, hence the movie's title Booty Call. His best mate and side kick in this adventure - Rushon who brought a serious side to the movie as he was more involved in a relationship.Along the way I found this movie really reached it's peak when the two guys visited the convenient store, where two Indian immigrants worked behind the counter who I thought added so much to this movie making it hilarious. Even Judge Peabody played by Bernie Mac delivered a great short appearance preaching the gospel and the danger's of sex even though he was on his way home with a prostitute. The movie does slow down a little towards the end when the couples visited the hospital, but still there were scenes that delivered a laugh.In all it's a short film but you will find it enjoyable from the restaurant scene in the beginning to the very end credits. And not a bad soundtrack if R & B and hip hop is your preferred choice in music.9/10 - Based on the written material and the characters. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining Film","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Enjoyed this film from the very beginning to the end and it had me laughing until my sides hurt. Jamie Foxx, (Bunz) along with Tommy Davidson, (Rushon) gave an outstanding performance as two guys trying to score with two gals who demanded Glad Wrap and were very particular about the type of condoms the guys were going to utilize. Vivica A Fox,(Lysterine) and Tamala Jones (Nikki) gave a great supporting role as the gals who Bunz and Rushon tried to score with. This film goes all around in Chinatown, a hospital and plenty of bedrooms and even a taxi cab. If you like Jamie Foxx and love his acting and comedy, this is the film you will greatly enjoy viewing. "},{"Title":"funny dumb","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rushon (Tommy Davidson) is a mild mannered Buppie who has been going out with his girlfriend Nikki (Tamala Jones) for about seven weeks; they seem to like each other well enough, but the relationship has been mainly platonicx, and Nikki isn't so sure that she wants that to change. Rushon asks Nikki out to dinner, but Nikki wants to bring along her tart tongued friend Lysterine (Viveca A. Fox). Rushon has to find a date for her, and he comes up with his rude buddy Bunz (Jamie Foxx). Lysterine and Bunz soon hit it off, and, to Rushon's surprise, Nikki decides it's time for their relationship to move to the physical level. Only one problem this is the '90s, and all parties involved want to be sure they're practicing safe sex. Which means Rushon and Bunz have to find some condoms fast, before the evening's mood evaporates. I like Tommy Davidson, but Jamie Foxx isn't funny at all, view at own risk.  "},{"Title":"Loved it. Very funny.","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the first Jamie Fox films I ever saw years ago and loved it! He is really funny in this movie and you could see he was going to be a big star. Its definitely not a film everyone would enjoy but if you like films like 'Friday' and anything with the Wayans brothers you will be laughing out loud. There are a good few scenes that were extremely funny, in-particular the supermarket scenes where the main characters visit several times during one crazy night and are ridiculed by the two staff who do remind me of Apu from the Simpsons. Also the scene where Rushon and Bunz (Jamie Fox) wrap themselves in cling-film made me cry with laughter! Vivica A Fox was good in the film as well but the show is stolen by Jamie Fox. Highly recommend this movie.Great 'pick me up' film. "},{"Title":"Fun movie if you're a male...and a fan of not-so-subtle sexual humor","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A male chauvinist friend of mine and I rented this movie and liked it. It was good, cheap, raunchy, sexual, crude laughs, but laughs none the less.  I think there are some very good quotable scenes in there as well. However, if you are actually expecting to see any nudity, there isn't any in there.  Excuse my stereotype, but because of the vast amounts of (not so subtle) innuendo and profanity, most women that I know would probably not find this movie as hilarious as I did. "},{"Title":"Vivica and Academy Award Foxxx don't answer!","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For those of you who don't know it, a Booty Call is is a telephone call, other communication, or visitation made with the sole intent of engaging in sex or other forms of sexual release with the person being contacted. Traditionally this social practice, especially the term booty call, is associated with a person calling another person for a sexual encounter after having already established either a casual or more serious relationship involving sexual relations.Now, stars of this film seem to have a great time, and you will too. I wish Cedric the Entertainer had been here, but hey, not all films are purrfect.8 out of 8.See ya'll. "}{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I find that, more than any other movie genre, comedy is a matter of personal taste. One person can come whole-heartedly recommend a film to you as being eyeball-busting funny, only for you to sit there stoney-faced throughout.This film perfectly illustrates that point. The user ratings and comments for this film have been pretty negative, but I've rarely laughed so much at a comedy. Yes, it's stupid and full of slapstick, but it has some great lines and the actors look like they're having fun.And unlike other similar films, it's not just a star vehicle for a money-mad, unfunny rapper. If you're planning a night in with a few drinks or *whatever* and you like this sort of thing, this is a good bet. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest urban films ever made","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Booty Call is one of the funniest urban films ever made. Jamie Foxx had his first starring role in this film and he showed that he could carry a movie. Tommy Davidson plats second string to Foxx but the two make a great comic team. Vivca Fox is also very sexy in this movie. I love it. "},{"Title":"Silly, black (not dark) comedy about booty vs commitment.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am almost embarassed to say I saw Booty Call, but it was on Comedy Central last night, and I had some time to kill...Basic premise - a guy has been going with a girl for 7 weeks and still has not gotten any, because he respects her and thinks she might be the one.  His girl also is very horny and asks her good friend (Lysterine) to join them on a double-date for safety, and she is fixed up on a blind date with Bunz. Bunz and Lysterine create immediate friction, but eventually, with the help of a dog licking toes under the table, they get set for some old-fashioned, no-commitment booty.However, both girls (two different adjacent apartments) want to practice safe sex, so the boys are sent out for protection at 2AM.  They return with some, but the girls point out that lambskins don't protect against HIV, so they are sent out again, for latex condoms.  Then they are later sent out for saran wrap.One of the boys is shot by an attempted hold-up of the convenience store, and there is an interesting hospital scene, no treatment for no insurance card, so one of them poses as a doctor to get him in. And, while he is at it, delivers a baby.The script makes fun of lots of things, including Indians in turbans working at the store.  It is not likely that much of the humor here will appeal to female viewers.  I rate it 6 for the good acting and quite a few funny exchanges. See it if you can for free.  After all, how do we recognize marginal movies unless we see some occasionally?? "},{"Title":"A reasonably funny black comedy","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I haven't seen too many of these black comedies, only this and The Wash, but I guess it's somewhat good. The Wash was definitely better, but this is pretty much the same style, so if you like one, you probably will like the other. If the choice is between this and The Wash, I'd choose the latter. But that isn't to say that this is bad. It just isn't as good as it could've been. The plot is something a lot of guys will recognize, the hunt for a booty call. This is sort of a what if scenario, dealing with the question What if you had to go through a lot of ridiculous trials to get the booty? And some of the trials are truly ridiculous. But far-out isn't the same as bad; a lot of the humor is good, as long as you can take some rough, gross & extreme humor. There are a lot of semi-nude scenes, and sex scenes, but never any direct nudity. I don't know if this is to open it up to more audiences; I guess there are people who don't care about sexual humor but can't stand to see some nudity. If you've seen The Wash, or something similar, and you liked it, maybe you should check this out. Just keep your expectations reasonably low, so you don't get disappointed. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Respect","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I could not stop to laugh at every joke in this film. But was most intriging about it is how all the character represented there particular minority with dignity. Yes there where sterotypes but there observations of each other where dead on. On a side note, many of my friends have talked about how Rush Hour is the first time popular movies address the issue of East meets black in films, this film introduces this relationship between these people in a healthy way. "},{"Title":"It is great in my opinion.","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie is all about how the guyz try to get the girlz. Beside being a great comedy movie, I think that it also carries an educational message to the youth. Bunz, and Rushon go through a lot of tricky things just to finaly get some 'o dat suga. Bunz I never had to go through this much s***, just to get a piece of a**. The weak sex is being exposed too. Some of its most unpleasant flows are revealed in the movie. Well, see it. I totaly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Basic, crude, silly, racist &#150; but it still manages to be amusing (if not hilarious)","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rushon has a date with Nikki &#150; who he has been seeing for 7 weeks without `getting up in there'.  Nikki has asked that Roshon brings a friend for her friend Lysterine so Roshon brings along his hood rat friend Bunz.  Despite a terrible date and constant bickering between Bunz and Lysterine the four hit it off and separate to their rooms to, well, get it on.  However Nikki's insistence on safe sex sends the two men out on a quest for contraceptives that lead them into several adventures.I approached this with all the caution one would give to a rattlesnake in your bathroom.  I knew it was going to one of those basic ethnic comedies where the main laughs will come from the characters acting in the stereotypical way black characters do in comedies and by saying `your ass' at the end of every sentence.  Sadly I was bang on the money.To call the story a `plot' is doing it a great disservice &#150; this is no more than a couple of sketches thrown together with one thread holding it as one film.  We have 1 the date, 2 the shops and 3 the hospital.  And that's it!  This doesn't matter as long as it's funny &#150; but the humour here is aimed at an undemanding black audience.  It's also crude, racist, lazy and relies on the characters arguing in loud fast voices and saying `motherf*cker' and `ass' every few minutes.Sadly this is still funny if you're in the mood!  As much as I wanted to hate it I still enjoyed it.  Many of the sketches are amusing and some of the dialogue is good.  However too much of it is lazy ethnic stuff.  Some scenes smack badly of racism &#150; like Bunz insulting Indian shopkeepers by telling them to go back to Pakistan or calling a diner at a Chinese restaurant `Bruce Lee'.  Can you imagine a white character in a `white' film getting away with that?However the bad taste is usually removed by the next good line so it's not too bad.  Foxx is not a great actor &#150; I find him to be a poor man's Martin Lawrence or Eddie Murphy and he really just overplays his `hood rat' character to the hilt.  Davidson is his straight-man and is not memorable as a result.  Jones is cute and looks great in that white lingerie and Fox is as sexy as ever despite a terrible hairdo.  However both the women are both black woman stereotypes and do the whole hand-waving, head-wiggling thing too much.  The most surprising bit of casting was Art Malik as one of the shop keepers &#150; he'd already done City of Joy and True Lies, so why did he decide that a role in this would be the way to go?Overall this is very basic and really pretty poor.  The plot could be written on the back of an matchbox, the jokes are crude at best and racist at worst and it's very hit and miss &#150; even if you're in the mood.  Sadly I still enjoyed it and found it funny.  If you like this type of thing then this will please you no ends. "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest ever made. You'll laugh so hard in the scenes of this movie, you'll have no time to catch your breath. Jamie Foxx is great in this movie and so is the rest of the cast especialy the ladies. If you want to see a funny movie watch this one cause you won't regret it  "},{"Title":"WICKED FILM!","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think that this has to be one of the funniest films that I have ever seen! Following the tales of Bunz and Rushon, two 'hood-rats' it shows how desperate these guys really are to get their booty call.Full of quick wit, non-stop sexual innuendo and everything possible going wrong, this is a sure for those who like a good laugh.The humour is extremely dirty but very funny with it-I am not sure if I would like to watch this with a girl but most definitely with my mates as I have done-It is that funny!If it is the only thing that you do  check this hilarious film out! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies made!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not as highly regarded as it should be.  It should be up in the ranks of Casablanca, Gone with the Wind, and How to be a Player starring Bill Bellamy.  This movie has some of the greatest one liners that have even been thought up.  Jamie Foxx gives a performance that is equal to that of Marlon Brando in Godfather.  This one gets and A-OK from me, the Communist Critic. "}{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At times, the dialogue was hard for an untrained ear to keep up with, but both my wife and I thought this a hoot.  There are some flat spots, and ALL of the characters are irritating, but some scenes (the dog under the table, the supermarket scenes, involving the most outrageous Indian sub-continentals since Apu) are as funny as cinema gets.  It is pretty broad humour, and not for everyone by any means, but to us it was a pleasant surprise. "},{"Title":"Extremely funny! I know the title sounds stupid, but...It's the truth","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Comedies like this one have to be written by a team. There's too much camaraderie, inside language, specified jokes&#133;Comedies like this can also be considered absolutely absurd or rather original and interesting. I go for the second option, because I was amused by how intelligently the situations presented in Booty Call were resolved.Two best friends. One of them has been dating, but can't get laid, so he needs the other one's help to go out on a blind date with his girlfriend's friend. The girl's friend in classy, the guy's friend is not, but somehow and ultimately they click. They go to the girl's house to play cards and things get hot; very hot&#133;Hot enough to literally get into bed, just before the girls ask for a safe sex.It is after the girls ask for a safe sex that things get complicated, and the two men must go in the search of security; that sometimes can include walking a dog. But what if the dog escapes? They can calmly go to buy their things in a store; but what if the store gets robbed? They can find the Judge (cameo by the stunning Bernie Mac) and he tells them not to have sex and immediately a hot lady asks him to hurry up? What if they end up in a hospital? The movie is short, and it develops its time in the friends' adventures to get their booties. The script by Takashi Bufford and J. Stanford Parker is well constructed and kept real enough to maintain the entertainment. It also contains some very funny sequences that, helped by the performances, show the writers' natural comedic timing.On the side of the camera, Jeff Pollack handles the job with plenty of skill, with a constant movement and rhythm, and the decision of making the image look much older than its actual time, which actually helps the movie's groove a lot. All the right calls for the man, even in terms of directing his actors; and the film's a comedy.Not your ordinary comedy, a black comedy perhaps, but not because it has black humor; because it occurs around black people. Not in the black neighborhood here precisely, but in Chinatown. Chinatown is that neighborhood that supposedly has got everything, but in the middle of the night, when two friends are in need for condoms, it is practically deserted.The performances fill the movie with motivation. The two pals are played by Tommy Davidson and Jamie Foxx (am I the only person that hasn't seen Ray?), both from the series In Living Color, but the latter one fresh from his The Jamie Foxx Show. Davidson stay calm until moments he looses it and we laugh; Foxx is a genius with all the one-liners and direct commentaries that keep you feeling him until the credits roll.Vivica A. Fox plays the classy Lysterine, and she excels constantly. Today she is between the highest paid black actresses of the industry. Tamala Jones also got some roles after this film, and she is still working today. She has the innocent look but the killing attitude. It's like that with all the African-Americans really; they want to be aside. I don't mean the people in this film, but there are lots of examples, and it's a topic I would be pleased to deal with. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie in YEARS!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I picked this movie out of some obscure video store in Seoul, and what I saw afterwards is a movie that changed my life.Jamie Foxx is a comic genius with his jokes (you wait outside, and a f---in' sea donkey goes into your car) and impressions of famous black men. I rented the movie several times before finally buying it.The scenes at the Chinese restaurant have to rank up there with the all-time greatest in comedy (no fighting in restaurant -- cost you extra to fight in restaurant).The movie did start to slow after Rushon gets shot in the leg and goes to the hospital. But before that, gosh, it had to be the funniest movie I've seen in years! I give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After watching this movie, it was hard to move because my sides hurt so much from laughing.  The hilarious standout performances of Vivica Fox, Tamala Jones, Tommy Davidson, and Jamie Foxx make this movie an entertaining film for anyone -- black or white, male or female.  The knockout, yet brief, performance of Gedde Wantanabe (Long Duc Dong of Sixteen Candles) is enough to make you rewind the dinner scene again and again and again. "},{"Title":"Call me maybe","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The subject of young guys looking desperately for condoms in order to get laid has been used in past movies, but this time, it has more elements to develop a decent story. In Booty Call, there is, surprisingly, a GOOD character development; all the main characters have their own virtues and defects, delivering nice situations. The Chinese homosexual guy is also a funny character. In my opinion, Tommy Davidson's acting is the highlight in this picture, along with a well written plot. There are problems coming for the characters all the time, so there is no wasted time. I don't remember a moment in the movie that I felt like I was bored; everything went very fast. Better than that the movie ADMITS its lack of pomposity, finishing it in about 78 minutes, so it is, in fact, a great unknown film. "},{"Title":"Getting some booty","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Every single man's dilemma, how can he find a direct path to the kingdom of the holy grail? In the movie Booty Call stars Bunz (Jamie Foxx) and Rushon (Tommy Davidson) as they spend one night going out on a double date. Rushon been pursuing his lady for seven weeks and tonight is the night so he brings in the reserves with his best friend Bunz to give him the luck he needs. This adventure begins innocently enough and gets mixed up with a whole bunch of twist and turns. They go from down town to up down as they eat a meal and go out to get to find the proper protection for the evening. With the dog in tow the duo hit the road and finally seems like they are settled in when all of a sudden the green light gets stopped. Good to see the style of Bernie Mac as the Rev Judge in bring in purity voice. Seeing this movie showcase some young talent before they made it big, with lots of 90s references it is a fun to go back to a simpler age and time but the path to the holy grail is not a straight shot. But always remember that the woman is how the evening is going to end and as the movie's tag line, some guys will do anything for a little somethin' something'  A laugh a minute. "},{"Title":"Foxx is Good","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Years before winning an Oscar for Ray, the biopic about Ray Charles, Jamie Foxx was in Booty Call, a much less serious movie. Here, he is Bunz, the best friend of Rushon(Tommy Davidson), who is dating Nikki(Tamala Jones), and they decide on a double date, adding Lysterine(Vivica A. Fox) to the mix. All is going smoothly until the couples get in the mood, but the two guys don't have protection for safe sex. Most of film entails Foxx and Davidson on a quest to find condoms and their disastrous results. Foxx has proved to be an incredibly versatile actor; from Ray, to Any Given Sunday, and even In Living Colour, the guy is a major talent. Booty Call is a silly, lightweight comedy, but Foxx and his costars make it funny and endearing. It is a one note joke, but the four major players work well together for a breezy 80 minutes. "},{"Title":"response to the idiot that watched the funny Chinese restaurant scene and got ready to turn movie off","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm writing this in response to the obvious moron that wrote the following quote..........Watched the funny Chinese restaurant scene and figured that would be it. My hand was poised on the remote, ready to turn it off, but my fingers wouldn't press the button. .......... All I'm gonna say is what kind of moron watches a scene that they find to be funny and wants to turn the movie off. If in fact you actually got booty calls you would understand the humor in this movie, or if you were even the least bit intelligent, you would realize the stupidity of your comment....... You don't turn a movie off upon seeing a scene that you find funny..... Unless you are moron..... enough said. Also... Why in gods name are you embarressed by a movie like this..... Its hilarious. Go get a life, and a booty call..... you just might understand this movie. "},{"Title":"Second Chance","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I saw this movie a few years ago and did not like it at all.  That is mainly due to Tommy Davidson being the most annoying man on the planet. But the other night this came on HBO and i decided to give it a second chance. Let me just say that, I don't know what it is that changed my mind, but I now find this movie to be hilarious.  Yes Tommy Davidson is still annoying at times, but the movie is completely underrated.  Jamie Foxx totally makes this film what it is.  And that is a hip, cool, sexy, comedy not made for kids too young as they wont get most of the jokes. Seriously folks... some advice give this movie a second chance. "},{"Title":"It was cute.","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tommy Davidson and Jamie Foxx want to nail Vivica A. Fox and Tamala Jones.  The thing is, the two of them can't even seem to get that right.  After running around all night trying to get protection, trying to get the right kind of protection, and then getting shot...just watch the movie.This was an alright film.  Jamie Foxx's character (the Germaican) seems like a completely incompetent human being, too over the top to be real.  He provided many of the funny moments.Some things I didn't get, though.  The part where Tommy Davidson gets shot is horribly edited.  What we see is an assailant dropping the gun, it goes off, richochets off a lamp post, and then we see a short (about 1 second) clip of someone getting shot in the leg with no sound.  It then abruptly cuts to the four characters in a vehicle on their way to the hospital.  It took me a few minutes to figure out what the hell had just happened.Also, I have to ask...Lysterine?  Why did Vivica A. Fox's character have to be named Lysterine?  Geez.  Aside from that, an alright movie. "}{"Title":"A horny Comedy","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a comedy about two friends trying to get some.  One is, but the other is not getting too lucky.  He has to earn it.  I think this movie is a movie that will make you laugh a lot.  It is like The Wood, and more of a How to be a Player in a way.  A very funny romantic comedy.  I think it is highly recommended for those who like this kind of comedy.  "},{"Title":"Not that funny","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie and it really isn't that funny.  The plot, aside from being repetitive, is not original.  It is full of sexual innuendo that just gets old.  The only redeeming quality of this film is the scene where Vivica A. Fox bends over the pool table.  Give me that 4 seconds and keep the rest of this movie.   "},{"Title":"I did not intend to ever see this film","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was on my 'Dude, Where's My Waterboy...' list of contemptable dumb comedies to run away from. But I turned the TV on to watch a DVD and this was just starting. Watched the funny Chinese restaurant scene and figured that would be it. My hand was poised on the remote, ready to turn it off, but my fingers wouldn't press the button. Then came the dog. And the Saran Wrap. And the next thing you know, I'm nearly buckled over with laughter. Even though the sex and booty jokes were sometimes embarrassing, the jokes and situations transcended them.It's definitely a fun film to see by yourself, when you don't have to concern yourself with how someone else is liking it.   "},{"Title":"Not that funny","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie and it really isn't that funny.  The plot, aside from being repetitive, is not original.  It is full of sexual innuendo that just gets old.  The only redeeming quality of this film is the scene where Vivica A. Fox bends over the pool table.  Give me that 4 seconds and keep the rest of this movie.   "},{"Title":"Not as funny when you're no longer in grade school","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, now when you see a movie titled Booty Call, you can't expect high art.But I can expect a ton of laughs. Unfortunately, now that I'm a young adult, I don't find the film as funny as I did when I saw it in grade school. When you're in grade school, you'll laugh at anything with a penis reference. Dirty and raunchy don't necessarily have to translate into dull and unfunny. Hell, even Mel Brooks was popular for doing plenty of low-brow humor, but he knows how to deliver the crudeness in a hilarious way. Director Jeff Pollack obviously doesn't possess Brooks' magic. I'm not going to lie. There are some gags that still make me laugh, but they are few and far between. For example, there's a great cameo from the always-funny Bernie Mac. And though it's a clichéd gag, I did enjoy the two Middle Eastern convenience store clerks. Keeping on the theme of ethnic stereotypes, I also liked the scene with Gedde Watanabe (of Sixteen Candles fame) as a Chinese waiter, who utters a very funny line in ebonics.But most of the gags are downright pathetic. Even comedy must involve a certain degree of truth, and it's hard to buy into--much less laugh at--a bunch of scenarios that make virtually no sense. In one scene, the four characters are playing cards. Jamie Foxx goes under the table to pick up a card, and the dog licks Vivica A. Fox's toes. She assumes that it's Jamie licking her. Then the dog licks Jamie's rear end, and he assumes that Vivica is licking it. Can you get a more ridiculous scenario? Not to mention the gag is poorly executed. As Jay Leno always says, This comedy thing's not so easy, is it? No, it is not, Jay. As is shown in amateurish comedies like this. Unfortunately, 99 percent of people in this world think they can do comedy, and about 10 percent of those people are right. On a non-cynical note, Jamie Foxx is a moderately talented comedian/actor. Unfortunately, his performance in this movie is all over the map. Like Albert Brooks said, when you do a movie you have to be funny as a person, not funny as a comedian. Foxx constantly spits out sly one-liners, like only a comedian can. He tries so hard to be funny that he rarely is. When I see him as Bunz in this movie, he reminds me of one of those obnoxious friends, who you constantly want to tell to shut the f**k up and/or punch in the face. It's no mystery that comedy is best when played straight, but obviously Foxx didn't solve that mystery prior to doing this movie. One person who hasn't solved that mystery 'til this day is Tommy Davidson. Outside of In Living Color, I don't think I've ever found him funny. He plays the straight man this time around, but hints of his goofy style of comedy show up here and there. I haven't met one person yet, who thinks he's a comic genius. I saw his pathetic stand-up act on an episode of The Tonight Show. Is there anything he knows how to do other than mug and make annoying voices? The third act of the film mostly centers on an utterly disgusting gag involving Davidson accidentally on his way to get castrated. First of all, if you're a guy, just hearing the word castration brings feelings of pain (women will NEVER understand!). Second of all, the gag might've worked if it were executed in a more discreet, tasteful way. There's a similar gag in the movie Sour Grapes, but it's executed in a much less disgusting and much funnier way. Then again, that movie was directed by the co-creator of Seinfeld and Booty Call is made by amateurs. If you're easily pleased by gags of any sexual nature, this should be your cup of tea. Others beware. "}]