[{"Title":"Everyday we have, is one more than we deserve","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The struggles in reporting the news are shown in such an interesting way in the 1996 movie, 'Up close and personal'. It also shows that a little bit of luck can help a person go a long way in an industry like that of TV journalism. This movie's story, which has a strong and very emotional romance within it, also has some surprising twists that I am sure people will not expect once they have watched it.Sally Atwater is fresh from a small-town trailer park when she arrives in Miami, overdressed and overeager to be the weather girl. He debut is disastrous but her boss, experienced newsman, Warren Justice, admires her spunk and takes her under his wing, making her an on air reporter. As Justice moulds Sally into one of the county's most sought after journalists, the pair fall in love, only to have their relationship threatened by the very success they have created.Here is one of the great romance movies I have seen in a longtime. I love the way that the main stars first meet and how their relationship develops. By the time that Tally is a great journalist, what is more important than her career, is the man that she loves that being Warren Justice. The screenplay for this movie was beautifully written by John Gregory Dunne and Joan Didion. I love how the two main stars are able to fall in love, but at the same time, able to do what they do as a career. Sure it might take a little while for the movie to show that this is important, but I feel that the time needed to be taken, so that both Tally and Warren fall deeply in love.The director of 'Up close and personal' was Jon Avnet, who has been a part of some great movies such as that of 'Risky Business', 'When a man loves a woman', and the 'Mighty ducks' trilogy. In this movie, I love the way that Avnet shows Tally Atwater at the start, to be someone who is a struggler, ignored and made fun of. Then to make her character be so vital and important in the whole make-up of the film, was great. This I believe is the good work of Avnet and makes the movie all the more compelling. I also like the world that Avnet has created for the film, that of the pressurised, TV journalism environment.The stars of the movie are two of Hollywood's better known actors in Robert Redford and Michelle Pfeiffer. The pair have a good chemistry in this movie, with the way that they fall in love very believable. I also like how Redford's character, Warren, refers to Tally at the start of the film, saying that 'she eats the camera'. This scene shows that Warren not only likes Tally as a journo, but as a woman as well. I also like the way that Pfeiffer appears in this film. She looks very much like a reporter does on the news and it is in her appearance that this needed to be so definite.The supporting cast of 'Up close and personal' is a pretty good one. I like Marcia McGrath (Stockard Channing), who is the tough as nails anchor girl, who is pushed out of her position by the rising career of Tally Atwater. She treats Tally pretty bad in the film, if the truth be known. I also like Joanna Kennelly (Kate Nelligan), who we find out is one of Warren's former wives. She is one of the reasons why Warren has had a turbulent journalism career. Do not discount the little role taken on by Tally's cameraman Ned Jackson (Glenn Plumber). He is an incredibly brave cameraman, who admires Tally for the work that she does. Trust me I would not have liked doing the camera work that he was doing in the prison.'Up close and personal' might not have the greatest of sound tracks, but it does have one song that I really like. That song is 'Because you loved me' sung by Celine Dion. It is a song which was used well in the film and its lyrics suit this movie beautifully. How great a song this was, made me want to watch the film all the more. By the way, there is one scene in the movie that shows Pfeiffer's character singing 'The impossible dream' at an empty football stadium in front of Warren. All I will say about this is that Pfeiffer should stick to the acting game, because she does not sing that well.This movie, is such 'a good drama love story', because it shows how tough the 'TV journalism' area can be, and does not shrug away from showing how difficult and dangerous such a career can be (the prison scene is wonderfully shot and one of the great parts of the film). I also like how this movie concludes, and I am not afraid to admit that it has gotten me upset both times I have watched it. You will notice, that I say that Sally Atwater's name is actually 'Tally'. I will not reveal how this change happens, just to say that I like it. I believe it was placed in the story for a bit of fun. But I am not so sure I would like my name changed for my chosen career. Would you?CMRS gives 'Up close and personal' 4 (Very Good Film) "},{"Title":"Good Cast, Mediocre Story","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Up Close and Personal proves again that charismatic stars and good production values can overcome a weak story.  This story of two television journalists (Redford and Pfeiffer) has few surprises, no fresh insights about the news business, and its big moments are both predictable and overblown.  Nevertheless, Redford and Pfeiffer provide enough star power to make for a reasonably entertaining couple of hours.  There is one particularly funny line, though.  When the Pfeiffer character says of a co-worker, He's so stupid! her boyfriend, the Redford character, with a quizzical expression on his face, says, He's an anchorman.  6 out of 10, marginally recommended. "},{"Title":"On the best romance drama I've ever seen","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's one the most sensible movie I have ever seen and I've seen a lot. Great...no.... excellent performance of Robert Redford and Michelle Pfeiffer creates a special romantic atmosphere. It's absoletely one of the most outstanding movie duet in the whole history of cinematografe. And some scenes make you heart stop for a moment, like in the news room during the editing or when she came to say him that she is going to Filadelphia. I recommend it to everyone who crazy about romantic movies. And be ready to feel all spectrum of feelings with positive emotions.  "},{"Title":"This is the most beautiful and romantic love story I have ever watched.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an incredibly romantic and moving film. The  movie follows the amazing and powerful love between Tally (Michelle Pfeiffer) and Warren Justice (Robert Redford.  Tally starts off as a minor and with no knowledge of the news broadcasting industry.  Justice takes her under his wing and motivates her, teaches her, helps her and supports her.  The love between these two deepens as a complete reversal of character positions occur. Justice begins to take a back seat to the rise and fame of Tally, but still their love and passion override.  Their love is the type couples can only dream of having, unrequited, loyal and free of jealousy.  This film captures attention from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Moving Story Line","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know how anyone could watch this movie and not love it. The line up of actors in the move are amazing and maybe that's why some people expected a different kind of movie. The movie moves a long perfectly, telling the story in a great time line. It doesn't drag and there is not one part of the story that doesn't fit. It's as if a friend is telling you the main highlights of a friends' love life. I gave it a ten - Redford an Pfieffer make a great, believable couple and you can tell they put their heart into this movie. They both play people who are intelligent and aren't afraid to fight for what they believe it, something we all strive for. Get a tissue, you'll need it. "},{"Title":"In the dictionary under guilty pleasure","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know how there are some movies which you know you're not supposed to like but end up liking anyway?  That perfectly describes this movie.  This umpteenth re-telling of A STAR IS BORN is sappy, unbelievable(while previous Norman Maine characters are down because of alcohol, Redford's character is down because of his integrity.  Yeah, okay), and contains an unbearable Celine Dion(of course, in my opinion, unbearable and Celine Dion is redundant, but that's my opinion).  But darn it if the romantic chemistry between Redford and Pfeiffer doesn't make this worth watching.  And say what you want about director Jon Avnet(and I'm not a fan of his), he knows how to direct actors.  Joe Mantegna, Stockard Channing, and Kate Nelligan are all excellent here.  You may not like yourself for liking it, but there you go. "},{"Title":"The Politics Of  'Up Close And Personal'","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While this is definitely a women's movie, a man can enjoy this, too. I did, but not enough to see it twice or to purchase it. Supposedly, it's the story of former television news reporters Jessica Savitch and Ron Kershaw.Robert Redford is good at playing the veteran newsman teaching Michelle Peiffer (Savitch) the business. He does more than that, of course, being her lover and then her husband. With Redford, you know you are going to get a dose of Liberal politics in the mix and in here, it's let's-feel-sorry-for-the-prison inmates. The preaching is they are in jail to be rehabilitated. Well, that sounds nice but whatever happened to jail as a form of punishment for someone committing a crime against someone else? Liberals - like Redford, who is never shy about giving us his views in movies like this - sometimes seem to have more compassion for thugs than they do victims of crime! He goes so far in here as to preach that if you don't treat prisoners with kid gloves you deserve to have a riot on your hands. Outside of all that heavy-handedness, you get a nice romance with solid acting all around, not only from the two leads but the supporting case with people like Stockarrd Channnng, Joe Mantegna, Kate Nelligan, Glen Plummer and James Rebhorn. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable film...until the ending","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For the most part, I really liked this film (more on that later), so I was surprised to see it get such low ratings. In reading up on the film, I learned it was supposed to be based on the life of Jessica Savitch, a newscaster I remember quite well, although I forgot how she died. I have a feeling the producers/director were in a damned if we do, and damned if we don't situation here. They were inspired by Savitch's life story, but wanted to make a love story, instead. If they just told the love story, and weren't open about the Savitch angle, they'd be criticized. If they made it clear the story came from the Savitch bio, but didn't make it a documentary/fiction story, they'd be criticized as well. They should have just shut up about where the inspiration for the story came from.SPOILER SPOILER SPOILERNow, as to saying that I really liked this film, there is a huge except here. I see no reason in a romantic story like this to kill of one of the two major characters. Yes, I (and apparently most people) wanted a happy ending. I was disappointed to see Redford killed at the end...and I see no good reason that was the way it ended. The film just edged down a notch for me. But, perhaps the problem with the film is that when you begin watching it you think it's one thing -- a romance story with some humor...but then it turns deadly serious.Another thing that would have helped would have been some timelines, particularly in Tally's time in Miami. It was difficult to get a sense of how long it took her to go from desk work, to weather, to reporter, etc.The acting here is superb. Redford, who was pretty much always at the top of his game, was here, also. Michelle Pfeiffer is excellent, as well. It's too bad she's not been in such wonderful roles in recent years. This is very much Redford's and Pfeiffer's film. Sure there are supporting actors, but none that have memorable roles, although their performances are all very good.It seems as if this film suffered from a bit of an identity confusion. But I still liked it...very much...except for the ending. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very disappointing. I expected much more from a film that brings this much star power. It is difficult to pinpoint exactly what is wrong with it. Robert Redford was the usual Robert Redford, which is good. Lots of very good actors in supporting roles, like Stockard Channing, Kate Nelligan, Joe Mantegna, Miguel Sandoval, and Noble Willingham. Michelle Pfeiffer just never rang true in her role. And I am a big fan of hers, and think that she is a phenomenal actress. I just never could believe in her in this one. I suppose that the writing must be at fault somehow, although I cannot say exactly how, But by the middle of the film I found it boring. "},{"Title":"See how to love each other in a complex world.","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Every couple who are serious about their relationship should sit down and watch this movie together. As the characters and storyline develop we are presented with a world full of stresses and change that many of us face in our own lives. If you sometimes wonder what should be your priority in life then let this film be an example of how to love and support the partner beside you. For those in touch with their emotions this film has many useful lessons, and for those who are not let it awaken your potential  a masterpiece to watch again and again. Just be prepared for your emotions to be taken on a roller coaster ride. Laugh, smile and cry with someone you love. Start eating your popcorn early on as you'll probably forget all about it as the movie progresses. "}{"Title":"This Film Needs to Get Up Close & Personal With a Fire.","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Up Close and Personal (1996) Dir Jon Avnet / Cast Robert Redford, Michelle Pfeiffer, Glenne Plummer, Stockard Channing, Joe Mantegna Meant to be the arrow that Cupid shot but ultimately becomes a thorn in the side of sober viewers. Title is a pun onto itself describing physical affection and two journalists. Michelle Pfeiffer lands a job as a news reporter but she falls for her boss played by Robert Redford. This all ends as a tearjerker that is enough to warrant urination on the screen. Director Jon Avnet does what he can with the routine formula. Pfeiffer and Redford are both reduced to props that do nothing more than sleep with each other. Pfeiffer begins with promise using humour to highlight her yearning to succeed but unfortunately she gets lost in the formula. Redford can only walk the familiar path before being sold out on a cheap tear jerker ending. Glenne Plummer plays Pfeiffer's cameraman who gets caught in a prison riot with her. Stockard Channing is wasted in this boring drivel. Joe Mantegna also makes an appearance but if the leads cannot strike any life into this junk, then the supporting players are hardly qualified to fix it. Fans of the genre will discover that this is nothing to get up close and personal with. On the surface it displays news and journalism but underneath it is a lame romance that deserves to get up and personal with the receiving end of a sledgehammer. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Long but amazingly worth the time spent watching!","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It has been a long time since a film has made me cry. I can't remember crying like this since Beaches and Steel Magnolias years ago. To be honest the movie seemed a little boring and overacted to start with - Pfeiffer was very much as she had been in Dangerous Minds, controversial and unique (not that that is a bad thing, just repetitive). However, once you move past the 'a star is born' bit, the developing relationship between Warren Justice (Redford) and Tally Attwater is a beautiful and believable one. It is also interesting to get a look at how the TV news may operate behind-the-scenes. Unlike so many star couplets today, Redford and Pfeiffer have true on-screen chemistry and are at their best in this film. "},{"Title":"writing about up close and personal","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i have seen this movie different times, during this year, and i must say it appears as a very good adult love-story. sometimes there are comedies you wouldn't like to remember because they're simply stupid,meanwhile, up close and personal can make reflect you about tha complicated world of media, and about a love that can simply grow working together. redford is wonderful, and michelle pfeiffer so nice. it is one of my favourite movies. everybody should see this, and remember that the word love can have a real meaning, sometimes. anna maria "},{"Title":"It shows a life.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie on TV. The song - Because you loved me - sung by Celine Dion is pretty good. I like the song. But the most important thing is that it showed me my life. I'm a male. But Michelle had a great ambition like me. Finally she ranked the first position in broadcast world. I hope to be like her. We will make our dreams as we have wished to be. I believe you make your dream, and me too. also looooove.  "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As someone who works in the news business, I cringe, laugh and cry when I watch Up Close and Personal. It bears almost no resemblance except for a broad outline of what life in local and network TV news is all about. Broadcast News is a far more apt portrayal of the real pressures of a newsroom. And yet, Up Close and Personal is more fun to watch, especially on a rainy afternoon with a big bucket of popcorn and some Kleenex nearby. Robert Redford, Stockard Channing and Kate Nelligan give good performances while Joe Mantegna has one of the most delightful character names ever in a movie Bucky Terranova. Michelle Pfeiffer is the weakest link and her prison scenes are ludicrous, but her Miami wardrobe and hair are stunning. She plays well off Robert Redford, who for once loses his wooden quality and actually seems to have some chemistry with her. It's hard to imagine that Joan Didion and John Gregory Dunne actually wrote this movie, since it's such a potboiler and nothing like their finest work. But on the other hand, it proves that they really were romantics. I put this in the same category as The Best of Everything and Designing Woman (the original, starring Lauren Bacall.) You can't call them great movies, but they have charm of their own. "},{"Title":"I love it despite...","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...the fact that the interaction between the characters at times is very stilted. A particular scene in which Warren Justice (Robert Redford) is telling Tally Atwater (Michelle Pfeiffer) how to put a news story together is particularly telling. Their dialogue is an interaction that has a noticeable pause between each line, and it made me think that perhaps it had not been well directed.The scenes don't always seems a smooth continuance.The sub-story regarding the siege at Holbrook Prison was lengthy and took a large part of the movie. Whilst it portrayed Tally's growing talent and removal from Justice's Svengali-like influence, it, for me, broke the continuancy of the movie.But despite this, the movie really struck a chord with me. It is one of the few movies I bought on DVD that I watch repeatedly. For some enigmatic reason, I love the movie despite the obvious flaws. "},{"Title":"This movie is in my top ten collection!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie years back, but unfortunately ever since my friend borrowed it I never got it back so I never saw it for many years and recently I got the DVD and this movie sure brought back memories.Sally/Tally Atwater fakes her way into a job and a TV station and has her hopes set up high in becoming a journalist when she meets Warren Justice, who begins teaching her what journalism is truly all about and slowly the two start falling in love, but all things end...This movie is about love, work and everything else in between. A woman and a man both workaholics can't stand to be away from the thrill of their work and yet can't stand to be away from each other either and then one of them goes and makes a fatal mistake.10/10 and I hated the ending just for the record, but it was the only one that would suit this film. Whoever believes in fairy tales this is a movie you should stay away from... "},{"Title":"Great romantic chemistry between Robert Redford and Michelle Pfeiffer. *** out of ****","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Jon Avnet   Running Time 124 minutes   Rated PG-13 (for some sensuality, language, and brief violence)Up Close & Personal  is one hundred percent a chick flick-but it is an effective one. With his new romantic drama director Jon Avnet has created a relevant, realistic, interesting behind-the-scenes look at news broadcasting, relationships, and journalism.The story centers on a young energetic woman, named Sally Atwater, who, in desperation to find the job of her dreams, sends an application to be a television newscaster and work with the biggest names in the business. One of them is Warren Justice, played cleverly by Robert Redford, who lives an opposite life from the clumsy, tactless, and silly Sally. Of course she gets the job, falls in love with Warren, and experiences difficulties with her occupation as well as romance.The film's first act is near perfect it introduces the characters and guidelines, exactly what a good first act is supposed to do. We initially meet an opportunity starving underdog, the external conflict, then move on the romantic complications in the second act, the internal conflict. The second act also provides the gradual increase in romantic chemistry; for once we don't have a typical love at first sight story. Both problems are eventually resolved efficiently, but getting there is what contains the original felling.What makes the characters so relateable in Up Close & Personal is the people who they are. Sally is a down-to-earth human being, blooming with cute charm and amiable qualities. She isn't presented as a glamorous, high stakes, important individual, but completely the opposite--perhaps a little too underdogish at times. Warren provides us with a stern opposite to Sally, forming tension. Their slow character development is totally appropriate, as well as effective, here.The leading characters are played delicately by Robert Redford and Michelle Pfeiffer; the right choice for each. Both pay special attention to the nitty gritty details within the characters. They are very careful not too overdue their characters and subdue the audience. This is not a deep picture, although the closing may catch a few unexpected viewers weeping, it's a light hearted, evenly presented, well-plotted romantic comedy-the filmmakers don't often pretend otherwise.Up Close & Personal  is not your typical love story.  It is not slow moving, but  full of colorful characters, interesting situations, focused point of views, and a suave atmosphere. It is a romantic comedy  worth the watch time and your money.Brought to you by Touchstone Pictures. "},{"Title":"a boring stinker","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love Michelle Pfeiffer. Robert Redford is a superstar. Which is why I shelled out for a cinema ticket in 1996 while I was working in Canberra.The first clue should have been the turnout. There were 5 other people in the theatre. 2 left about halfway through.The recent movie that jogged my mind about Up Close and Personal was Seeking a Friend for the End of the World. Steve Carell and Keira Knightly...how could you go wrong? At the end of that movie, and after I'd said is that it? I remembered 1996.2 big stars of the moment, an interesting premise, but a total turkey. What the 2 movies had in common was a couple of actors walking through their lines with as much feeling and believability as the bored woman who sold me the tickets at the counter.Absolutely no chemistry, no connection with the audience; you could almost hear Pfeiffer and Redford thinking 'is this over yet?' Contrast this with Pfeiffer's other 1996 effort One Fine Day, and you see that her heart is still in it. Whereas Redford's efforts since this stinker have been mediocre at best.Up Close & Personal was so bad that it took nearly 17 years for Carell's non-effort to knock it off my Worst Movie mantle. "},{"Title":"That's all the news that is news. Film at eleven.","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A seasoned TV journalist(Robert Redford)molds...and falls for...an engaging, ambitious news woman(Michelle Pfeiffer). A strong, romantic story that also gives a glimpse of behind the scenes TV journalism. Redford and Pfeiffer are magical together. The finale is sad, but intelligent. A charming movie with a very talented supporting cast that includes Stockard Channing, Joe Mantegna, Kate Nelligan and a small role for Pfeiffer's sister. An excellent first date movie. "}{"Title":"Gimme a break!","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow was this movie ever a stinker. I realize its a chick flick but the melodrama was laid on pretty thick. I'm so sure Redford's character would have all that time to spend with Pfeiffer's. As if he has no one or nothing else to tend to in his busy career. She just strolls in and basically becomes his pupil. He believes in her. Right! The convenient circumstances begin to pile up in the first hour making the second hour quite unbearable. Just about the entire movie is implausible. It really meanders when they have Redford's character reporting on the war. The romance is so forced that there was never a chance for any chemistry to develop naturally on screen. I realize its a movie but I didn't buy any of the happenings for a second. "},{"Title":"The life of TV journalists","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film tries to give an idea of the difficulties of TV journalists to succeed and the problems they may face during the job. The director of the film seems to be interested of what may happen in Cuba, and the film touches partially the ethic of contra group in Miami. It also shows how mass media are always behind sensation of the news, sometimes sacrificing the life of the reporters, and this is what happened to Robert Redford, one of the heros of the film. This is not an easy film to be seen, but the argument is acceptable.    "},{"Title":"Disappointing and Shallow&#x85;A Surface Rendition of an Interesting Subject","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Shallow Representation of a Shallow Industry (TV News). Robert Redford and Michelle Pfeiffer Leave Their A-Game Behind in this Soapy Weeper that Never Quite Hits the Right Notes. Nothing is Very Scathing, Although it Tries to be, About the Cut-Throat Entertainment of Television Journalism.Focus Groups and Ratings are at the Center of the Thing and Redford's Character Spends Most of the Film Telling it Like it is and of Course Nobody Wants to Hear it. But He Tries. Pfeiffer is Trying Also in a Difficult Role. She has to be Ditzy then Determined then a Pro. The Transition is Not Wholly Believable.The Production Values are Non Existent and Bland. The Middle with the Prison Riots Never Manages to be What it is Meant to be and the Political Messages in the Film are Heavy Handed and Obscure. The Muddled Story of the Racism and Incarceration Injustices are Never Convincing.Overall, a Chick-Flick that Almost but Never Quite has Enough Substance to be Anything More and the Movie is About Much More. The Premise is an Almost Always Interesting One and This One Went Softball Most of the Time and Hardly Lives Up to its Aspirations. It's Disappointing Considering the Star Power and What it Could Have Been and What it Delivers is Nothing but Average at Best. "},{"Title":"Bad 90s Tripe","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (spoilers) Director Jon Avnet has failed meshing together a clichéd mess of a supposed romance in what is a particularly unfocused, tepid, and uninventive. About three-quarters of the runtime through, the movie mutates trying in vain to become a thriller and shedding it's serious romance stance. This is about the time that the movie loses it. The dialog is cardboard-ish Days of Our Lives type 90s crud. One of the other cringeworthy flaws of this movie, is the uncomfortable age gap between Phieffer and Roberts, a dubious and noticeable 20 year difference which looks quite tasteless bringing up obvious Daddy relationship questions. Steer clear of this dud. A failing 4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Revisiting Up Close and Personal","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is an advantage when the fare on television is so bland that the box of purchased DVDs comes out of the closet some of those oldies are so good that they make the current crop of contemporary comedy/drama love stories inept. Such is the case in viewing the very popular 1996 film UP CLOSE AND PERSONAL, a film whose nidus is Alanna Nash's exposé book 'Golden Girl The Story of Jessica Savitch' adapted and remolded for the screen by no less than Joan Didion and John Gregroy Dunne, under the careful and tidy direction of Jon Avnet, and starring two of screen's most popular talents Robert Redford and Michelle Pfeiffer. The film suggests the Jessica Savitch story, the newswoman who, in the 1970's, became the First Woman Anchor. Sally/Tally Atwater (Michelle Pfeiffer) is from the other side of the tracks in Reno who is obsessed with becoming a news star. She fakes her résumé, barges into an important television studio run by the indomitable Warren Justice, fakes is and fails as a weather forecaster, yet is so refreshingly purposeful that she is taken under the wing of Warren in a Miami newsroom, given not only a makeover in appearance, but also the chance to make a difference in a news story involving the sad plight of Cuban exiles swimming to freedom in Florida, and becomes a news star on TV. There is a chemistry between the two and despite Warren's tendency to marry and divorce frequently the two fall in love. Yet despite her love for Warren, she takes the big chance and moves on to Philadelphia, where he follows to rescue her faltering career at the cost of his own - as she rises he falls. It is a love story and more - a Pygmalion reshaping of a true tale. Both Redford and Pfeiffer look and act great and they are surrounded by a fine cast of extras - Stockard Channing, Kate Nelligan, Joe Mantegna, etc. Nice to remember when love stories were not just about potty mouth derring-do, but instead were well written and well crafted little films.Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Why such a low rating?","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of the best romantic movies I've ever seen. The plot is not only endearing, but it is actually believable. Not only does Sally/Tally have to struggle to become accepted and successful, but she has to deal with having feelings for the very man who gives her a hard time. Michelle Phiffer is excellent in this movie, as is Robert Redford, as always. The supporting performances are also well executed. Of course, the song Because You Loved Me adds so much poignancy.With the death of her husband, Tally has to face a personal and professional struggle. She has to speak at his memorial. My two favorite scenes are the one in which she realizes Warren was in fact the one who died (His shoes!) and where she ignores the TelePrompter speech and speaks from her heart.Truly a great movie. "},{"Title":"what an awesome movie!!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" even after all the times i have seen this movie---i still cry every time!!!...Robert Redford too old to be the hero??!!---NEVER!!!....hes like a few other actors i know ( Sean Connery, Michael Douglas)...age seasons them well!!!...how romantic to be in his arms!!....as a little girl i wanted to be a news reporter..i have always thought they have some kind of mystique about them...& the places they get to see & things they witness.....then to fall in love through it all....i cry at the end all the time but it was a good ending because that is the exact risk you take traveling to report in some of the places they have to go...imagine the love story's reporters could tell about our past war they just went through!..oh the movies we should be seeing soon!!!!...lol "},{"Title":"Only romance (but high class)","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movie romances since Kathrine Hepburn movies.  Don't watch it as a biography (if it tried to be that at all).  Don't watch it as a movie about TV reporters and news-makers.  This could happen among professors, doctors, judges, brokers, post-office clerks - everywhere, they had to do something and it just happened to be they were TV reporters.  There are more good movies that describe (and often criticize) TV networks, TV (or newspaper) reporters etc., than good romance movies that engage both heart an brain. Pfeiffer is one of very few last two decades American actresses that can be the reason I would watch a certain movie just because of the cast (the others are Geena Davis, Mare Winningham and maybe Kathleen Turner), but Redford is at his best here and he makes this movie a real pleasure to watch.  (O.K., the entire cast did a great job.) A certain number of illogical moments really exist in movie, but films were always used to follow the paths that logic never stepped on to.  If you want a realistic story settle in such an environment, try Mad City, Network or Ace in the Hole, and keep this one for your romantic occasions.  "},{"Title":"Inspiring and truthful","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. It's one of those movies you go to see, and then you leave feeling a little changed (if not for awhile, at least for a moment or two). robert redford is, as always, wonderful, and honest. I smiled, I laughed, and I cried. This movie actually has inspired me to look into journalism. If you like robert redford, sweet romances, and truthful endings, this one's for you! "},{"Title":"Michelle Pfeiffer and Robert Redford are great.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer, Robert Redford, Stockard Channing, Joe Mantegna, and Kate Nelligan star in this wonderful love story. Academy Award nominee Michelle Pfeiffer stars as Tally Atwater who is trying to make it big in show business. She goes to Miami where she works at a news station. There she meets veteran newsman Warren Justice (Robert Redford). The two become attracted to each other. Soon the two realize that in order to stay together they have to risk everything in order to save it. If you like good love stories then this one is definitely for you. "}{"Title":"Sophorific and without substance or warmth","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It goes on, and on, and on, the same thread repeated ad nauseum will he (Robert Redford) get her (Michelle Pfeiffer)? Does Santa's lady still darn socks? Mr Redford seems to have run out of gas. He's the one who mentors the pretty news girl, but where's their personal situation going,up or down? Before long, this viewer didn't care--their characters weren't strong enough to build or deserve any empathy with the audience. Ms Pfeiffer, as all know,rose to prominence as a model, and it has been her stronger suite; she reached modest heights as an actress, and now in her 50s, still has a very busy movie schedule. Mr Redford plays much the same role in each of his (fewer and fewer) movies, that of the movie actor Robert Redford. This viewer went from disinterested to bored and then sleep before exiting. It's the worst response you can give any film, save burning down the cinema or local DVD outlet. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie ever made- Robert Redford makes this movie.","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I totally love Robert Redford in this movie. To this day I still watch this movie at least 3 times a week or if not more. I just want to eat this man alive in this movie. It is the best love story I have ever seen. I just can't say enough good things about this movie. I love the way he looks at her, and the things he said to her, and what he does for her, and the way she looks at him, and the things she said to him. I guess what I liked most about this movie were the messages they gave each other without saying a word. It is my fantasy movie. I cannot get enough of Robert Redford . I would love to meet this man. This man can say so much with his facial expressions, yet not say a word with his mouth. GREATEST MOVIE EVER MADE - ROBERT REDFORD AND MICHELLE PFEIFFER REALLY OUT DID THEMSELVES. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a typical Robert Redford movie, which is supposed to be touching. Well, I can't say I can relate to the story too much. The world of news broadcasting is beyond reach for me. The 'behind the scenes' of news broadcasting did not interest me much. Hence, Throughout the first 2/3 of the film I did not really enjoy the film. Fortunately, towards the end of the film things started to get less technical and more viewer friendly. Overall the film is OK, but don't expect too much from this. "},{"Title":"romantic story which good advice","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good story from novel. I think man that they show from novels is always same nice, very attention with his woman, have a good life. But what very make this film good is the ending, the ending is touching my heart. Because even in the story her husband is death, but she is strong and fight for her husband care.Michele and Robert, they are good actors with very natural played. And they can act to be anyone, that's what I very appreciate about actors work.CAN HOLLYWOOD MAKE THE GOOD AND TOUCHING FILM LIKE UP CLOSE AND PERSONAL again? (EVEN I DOUBT IT)  "},{"Title":"I started not liking it - ended loving it","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I switched to it more accidently on TV, and fell in love with this movie. It is not a so special film, but it really catches you. It is a small insight in the news business, hey, it even helped my write a work for school (I always tried to tell stories wrong), but foremost it is a wonderful love story with enough dramatic action to make it not to soft. "},{"Title":"Pablum for the public","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This story, and the director who envisioned it have serious flaws and misconceptions about what an audience will accept. And none of this is the fault of the actors. Pfeiffer usually rises above content (White Oleander and Frankie and Johnnie). And we expect more from Redford.I am very curious why he accepted this role.This film was based on Joan Didion's career as a TV newscaster, and was written by John Gregory Dunne. Didion always delivers (her novel Play it as it Lays was unique realism). This movie however, has the worst screenplay I have seen in some time. Joe Mantegna as Bucky Terranova a TV bigwig-enough said. Mantegna is limited in scope, and his part in this movie serves as unintentional comedy.Pfeiffer is portrayed in a misogynistic ditzy form- she wears a bright pink suit to interview for a job at a major TV station- she looks more like the Mayflower Madam. The crux of the story is, she is simply trying to make it in the big bad world of TV journalism. I doubt this topic would work today, since most educated audiences realize correspondents are talking heads, bought and paid for by slanted political interest groups.As Tally (as she is so fondly called by Redford), is helped by him to move up the ladder of success, she is miraculously transferred from Miami to Philadelphia, where people like Stockard Channing reign supreme (i.e. the audience likes to see a woman who can read and speak properly!).An amusing scene is when Tally reports Fernando Buttanda (Ray Cruz) has won a prize for the first New Year baby in Miami. Anyone who has ever lived in South Florida will be laughing at this banality. Deco Drive is the most popular TV show in South Florida right now, so a newsgirl reporting fluff would NEVER get a northeastern market unless; ah yes, she is involved with veteran Redford, who has connections.That being said, this movie proves you can have excellent actors, who cannot resurrect bad material. I have liked most of the actors in other projects, (Redford, Nelligan, Pfeiffer and Channing). They should have passed on this one. "},{"Title":"Wrong-headed, impossible concoction whipped up by too many chefs","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What began life as the turbulent story of the late newscaster Jessica Savitch was re-written and revised so many times it now resembles no one, living or dead. It's just another Star Is Born rehash, with big stars slumming in soap-ville. Pretty upstart (Michelle Pfeiffer) in the TV-news biz becomes a network anchorwoman, but her romantic relationship with a handsome colleague (Robert Redford) causes problems. Strictly on its hand-me-down terms, the film is a gusty, guilty pleasure, something to watch to kill time, and Pfeiffer works well (as always) even under the most hokey circumstances. However, the best performance is turned in by Stockard Channing as a no-nonsense hard-nose; poor Redford looks like he might be ill at any moment. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Failed to stir me.","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know what it is about this movie, it starred Redford and Pfeifer and had an interesting plot. I didn't enjoy this movie that much in spite of that. I think this was supposed to follow the life of Jessica Savage who I had an interest in knowing more. Yet this picture just had something missing.I think there were several things wrong with this movie number one being, watching it I felt the plot really seemed focused on Pfeifer's incredible wardrobe and numerous hairstyles. That seemed to be the focus of the story more then anything about a broadcaster-Jessica Savage or ANYONE. The movie's direction seemed to have as it's focal point, not the characters and their range of emotions but instead Pfeifer's numerous wardrobe changes and expensive hair, clothes and accessories. Myabe that wasn't the movie's intention but after awhile multiple outfit changes can get pretty played, especially if there's no hook to hang the outfits on.In this case there wasn't much of one. The story started out interesting but there was a spark, an edge missing ealy on and the movie never came into it's own or developed any kind of fire. The chemistry between Pfeifer and Redford which should have been intense was actually mild and the movie never picked up momentum-though Michelle's outfits continued to change...There was a TV movie which unfortunately I can't remember the title of at the current moment but it was the story of Jessica Savidge and was much better all around. But even if this had been a fictional story-Up Close and Personal just to me never went above a 5.5 maybe a 6 rating. To much focus on exteriers instead of interiers and the character development didn't go deep enough. Slightly above average(at the most). "},{"Title":"A Love Story via Satellite","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vivid love story between a new and talented reporter (Michelle) and her sometimes anger, sometimes sweet chief (Redford). This movie could be a misfire but the good cast and the witty dialogues make this a special example of how to make if not a brilliant but a reasonable romance movie.I give this a 06 (six).  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Michelle Pfeiffer is a wonderful actress who brings her characters alive. The movie was heartwarming because of her performance. The plot was realistic and well done. Robert Redford did a far better job in this flick than he has in most of his other movies. Pfeiffer and Redford seem to have great chemistry. This combination works well. I highly recommend this movie since a lot of information about what goes on behind the scenes in the news industry are highlighted. I am writing this review in 2005 and the issues we are dealing with in this era were addressed in Up Close and Personal which was made in 1996. Pfeiffer's character remarked that the news was based on what the sponsors wanted; the one major complaint about the news media today is that it is corporate-owned and corporate controlled. So, we don't get the real deal when watching the news. We need PBS and Link TV to get the real news, but mainstream media is exactly as Up Close and Personal portrayed it. Great job! Thank you, Michelle "}{"Title":"Very good","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though I feel Robert Redford is getting a bit old to play the romantic hero, I did enjoy this movie. I liked the newsroom setting. I felt Michelle Pfeiffer gave a very good performance and that she and Mr. Redford had a very likeable chemistry. I didn't care for the ending, but it was good viewing on the whole. A good love story. "},{"Title":"Out Lifetime Movie Networks LMN!!","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Technically this is a well done movie. The scenes are constructed well, the cinematography is excellent, the acting is fine. At the end of the day what one is left with is a LifeTime Movie Network movie. A pretty LMN film that is better than most of the material the network runs...but it is LMN fare.**SPOILER** The end says it all Cat Woman is at an office farewell party. She is the glory of the party. Everyone hangs on her every word describing the events that have just been witnessed. The TV is turned on and the dramatic build of the death of Jeremiah Johnson occurs where at first Mrs. Montana is the only person to realize who's sole of who's shoe laying on the ground. The dramatic build is heightened by...by...a glass of champagne falling at hitting the ground!!!!! WOW!!!!!!! Then comes the obligatory shameless acting cry and wail. Can't you just feel the tears jerking out of the audience!!!! Play it as it Lays, Michelle, Play it hard. Play it like Susan Lucci! If you think that this is life you need to get one. If you like this soapy teary weepy waily incredibly constructed climax then this is a 10 max film for you. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Up close and personal i think is a fantastic movie to watch. Celine Dion did the soundtrack to this movie Because you loved me Both the movie and the song was released in 1996. Michelle and Robert i think were great in the movie. "},{"Title":"Far Away & Bored","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this movie is based on the life of newswoman Jessica Savitch then it sort of begs the question, why make a movie of her life? She was a nice enough person but what was so special that they had to get Robert Redford and Michelle Pfeiffer to star in her life story? It wasn't even her full life story only parts of it. The song by Celine Dion makes you think that Redford's character saved Pfeiffer from a life of sin and debauchery. Which, come to think of it, would have made a more interesting movie. At least Redford doesn't have to offer Pfeiffer a check for one million to get her to sleep with him. "},{"Title":"4 out of 10","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not the insightful, smart Journalist drama in the mould of ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN you would have expected with Robert Redford in the lead, this is an adequate star vehicle with beautiful Michelle Pfeiffer being taught by Redford to be a good reporter while she's switching from one hair-do to another. Good supporting cast with James Rebhorn, Glenn Plummer, Joe Mantegna and others and solidly directed, but the central romance between Redford and Pfeiffer doesn't convince and the story is pretty empty. So forget about anything serious in this high kitsch melodrama. "},{"Title":"Romance done purely by the numbers. (Minor spoiler)","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who has read screenwriter John Gregory Dunne's book Monster Living off the Big Screen, will know that Up Close and Personal was originally written as a serious biopic of TV anchorwoman, Joan Didion. Under the high concept guidance of producer Don Simpson, it became this bland, by the numbers romantic pap that is probably best suited to young teenage girls in need of a good cry. Frankly even they deserve better. Pfeiffer plays wannabe news reporter Sally Ann `Tally' (belch!) Atwater, who lies her way into getting a job at a news station and is swiftly taken under the wing of veteran journalist Warren Justice (a dignified performance from Redford). No prizes for guessing what happens next. Tally (I really hate that nickname) steadily climbs her way up the slippery pole of the TV news reporter under the watchful eye of Warren and pretty soon romance blossoms between the two. All of, which is extremely predictable mush, so much so that a less tragic ending would have been an utter shock! Still, it might have made a three-hankie movie if the script and director Jon Avnet had woven a decent yarn. A few less obvious twists and more humour would have welcome. Instead they lazily settle for the appeal of the two leads to carry the film. Unfortunately this only works up to a point. Both stars handle their roles quite well. If her movie career goes under tomorrow, Pfeiffer would certainly not be out of place infront of a news camera. Stockard Channing is also a welcome addition as a wonderfully bitchy anchorwoman. However there's no hiding the lack of chemistry (or the age gap for that matter, even with that soft focus lens) between the leads and pretty soon sitting through the film becomes a chore. Both stars can do (and have done) so much better than this tosh. One has to wonder what they saw in the material to begin with. "},{"Title":"Michelle Pfeiffer is the greatest!","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  She is down right my favorite actress! But you see this film had some turnoffs about it! I mean the hair! The hair at the end on Pfeiffer was ugly!, and that awful perm  on Kate Nelligan, honey go back to natural! Otherwise, the film was a big success! You'll love it if you like love stories and news. Stockard Channing should have had a bigger part as the bitchy Marcia McGrath, Channing is the coolest! "},{"Title":"Isn't it ironic?","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I find it ironic, that the movie recommendations given by IMDb for other movies similar to Up Close and Personal are NONE of the other versions of it. (A Star is Born, 1937, A Star is Born, 1954, A Star is Born, 1976.And... now I have to add something else, because my short comment, though to the point, is not long enough to leave as a comment. Your comment does not contain enough lines - the minimum length for comments is 10 lines of text.How do you figure out how much to say, when you have said enough?Should I make out my Christmas wish list? Or Maybe... I can make suggestions for new couples that can be hired to remake this re-make? mmmmm... George Clooney. Yeah... Thats good... "},{"Title":"Jessica Savitch","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Usually I like to research a movie for fun before watching it. I don't like to waste time watching a movie for 2 or 3 hours. What I learned is that this movie is based on Jessica Savitch who in the 1970s became the first female American anchor on television.The movie was based on the book  Golden Girl The Story of Jessica Savitch written by Alanna Nash.The movie is said not to be as accurate in detail and also over dramatize and exaggerate events. Also emphasizing on aspects that are debatable. So the movie might be leaning more towards fiction, then of true events. But that's debatable.I didn't give the movie a rating because after 20 minutes i couldn't bare to watch anymore. The movie had nothing to draw me in at all. Nothing to captivate me into sitting there and watching it for free.I suppose if you are the type that like to judge a movie after watching it then the best thing for you to do is watch the whole thing. "},{"Title":"A long boring cliché movie","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Up Close And Personal is a love story dragged on over two hours.  The script is rather empty, usually predictable, and above all boring.  It is a sad example that even an excellent cast can't make a good movie where there isn't one.Cliché movies like this are usually forgotten within days, but for some reason, the memory of Up Close And Personal still haunts me.  It won't let me forget how I wasted time and money on it.  I give it 1/10. "}{"Title":"No, no no,...this is NOT a good film!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the overall score for this film is way too high and may be related to the fact that people like the stars. But their performance in this dreary retread was just sloppy and dull. Nothing about the film in any way made me prefer it to the original A STAR IS BORN with Janet Gaynor or the remake with Judy Garland. Both of these older films are marvelous classics, whereas this film looks like both the stars just did it for money. Additionally, while in this case it's becoming a top news anchor instead of a movie star, the films are essentially the same and any hack writer could have created the script--as there is nothing NEW or IMPORTANT to say in the film. Anyone who saw the original films KNOWS that Redford will ultimately buy the farm and Pfeiffer will be the next Barbara Walters.Ultimately, I could have summed up the film with WHO CARES?!, but IMDb doesn't allow such succinct reviews. "},{"Title":"Material not worthy of its cast","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert Redford, Michelle Pfeiffer, Kate Nelligan, Stockard Channing, James Rebhorn, Joe Mantegna and Miguel Sandoval all should have sent their agents a skunk or a dozen rotten eggs with the RETURNED script for this yawner. The fact that they all agreed to do it indicates they were paid a lot, because it can't have been for any other reason.To be fair, Nelligan and Redford have a pretty good scene together.  They were married awhile ago and their chemistry and familiarity with one another seems genuine.  When she says I was seven years and three dozen asses ago..., you get a nice sense of their history.There is also a pretty good scene in a jail - Pfeiffer is doing a story and a riot breaks out.  Since this has nothing to do with the rest of the movie, it works well.  But when a teary Michelle emerges without a smudge on her white blouse, the movie quickly returns to its sorry state.To start at the beginning..Pfeiffer gets a job at a Miami television station.  She is over-dressed, awkward and clumsy.  He is dismissive, sexist and condescending.  Naturally they are supposed to be together, its cinema law.She moves up the television chain of command, for reasons that are never spelled out.  Eventually she is a reporter, and with his infinite help and wisdom, a good one.  So good, in fact, that she is soon off to Philadelphia (and the movie doesn't even get off a good joke at that city's expense!) but since she is without her MAN, she is faltering.  He comes to Her Rescue. This is so stupid, so incredibly insulting to every woman that ever had a career and an ambition, that its amazing Redford and Pfeiffer allowed themselves to be a party to such drivel.  No one loves Michelle Pfeiffer more than I do but its getting sickening having to tolerate her awful career choices.  When she is sitting with Channing in one scene, Stockard might as well say, WHY did you agree to do 'Grease 2'?  Even I turned it down and I was Rizzo in the first one!And they all have these RIDICULOUS NAMES!  Tally Atwater?  Warren Justice? The best of all -- BUCKY TERRANOVA?  Who thought these up, Vince McMahon? Jackie Collins?Pfeiffer wins one prize for this - most makeovers in a two hour movie. Every time you turn around, she's dyed another color. No, wait..Shirley MacLaine in What a Way To Go! would win that.  Sorry, TALLY.  Ugh. 3/10.  "},{"Title":"Don't be taken in, no matter how much perfume they spray on it.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" By the time Up Close and Personal came to the screen, it was no longer the story of Jessica Savitch and Ron Kershaw from which it emanated. Writer John Gregory Dunne's book `Monster' aptly describes the years, and countless dollars involved in taking the interesting, but tragic true life story of Savitch's painful existence, and self&#150;destruction. to its transformation into a weak-kneed Disney formula concoction. Don't forget these are the same people who brought Mr. Wrong, a romantic comedy starring Ellen DeGeneres to the screen.IMDB reports $50M in US domestic box office plus all the other revenues. What this means is the studio(s) honchos who perpetrated this fraud are incented to continue. And don't they love to give us the shiv.I would have loved to see a love story with Robert Redford and Michelle Pfeiffer, but that just ain't gonna happen now. Redford's leading man days are gone, and Pfeiffer is such a big star now she is forced into poor, generic choices with the &#145;hunk-o-the-month'&#133;.Next stop, George Clooney.But  I'm left with this crap.  "},{"Title":"Pungent Bouquet from Rob and Michelle","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend told me I'd enjoy the movie and I WOULD have, had `Up Close and Personal' been a little piece of fluff, a romantic comedy in a `Broadcast News' setting. Alas, a few minutes into the film,I released, `Uh, oh, they are playing this SERIOUS,' and spent the rest of the movie enduring an utterly unconvincing piece of liberal propaganda. Michelle Pfeiffer may be a stunningly attractive lady, but she obviously lacks the skills necessary to be newscaster, much less a network superstar.  The great song `Because You Loved Me' seems out of place in the narrative, an appropriate commentary for the problems with plague the entire movie.Possible SpoilersPfeiffer is totally unprepared in manners of dress or how she should expect to be treated when she arrives at her first job.  Yet she was prepared enough to fake her demo tape and recognizes Redford as a former Washington Bureau reporter who embarrassed President Bush (Sr.) and the president's press secretary. Redford's initial condescending behavior of Pfeiffer bordered on sexual harrassment. Here it is treated as `charming.'  Redford's character appears to be an unforgiving taskmaster, yet he `forgives' any number of Pfeiffer's mistakes.  Certainly, he sees no ethical problem with Pfeiffer committing fraud to get her job.  That Redford's career could have been finished by one bad story seems ridiculous considering the howlers delivered by Dan Rather et al. almost every week. Does anyone remember the faked Chevy truck film, Tailwind, etc?Pfeiffer's `far left' takes on her stories might have been `fresh' and `trendy' in the 1960s.  Today, they should be seen as either laughably naïve or discredited.  Certainly, they are `politically correct' enough to discount Pfeiffer standing out from the competition, an absolute necessity if one expects to be the next `Katie Couric.'As usual in a Redford movie, all the political transgressions are made by Republicans. Since Pfeiffer works out of Philadelphia, one would think she might have found a story linking the Branch Davidian disaster in Waco to liberal Democrat former mayor Wilson Goode burning down an entire black neighborhood under the direction of the FBI Hostage Rescue Team during the 1980s.  No, I guess that would be too honest for liberals, who seem to believe other liberals can do no wrong, because being a good liberal means `believing' in the right things, not necessarily practicing them.Redford and Pfeiffer may have given us a pretty bouquet, but only being it is so well fertilized.  "}]