[{"Title":"A good action-adventure film with great special effects&#133;","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"53 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Marshall is the kind of President referred to a change in the U.S. foreign policy&#133; He took a great risk when he stated that America will no longer tolerate any terrorist government&#133; His policy is soon put in practice when he boards his plane on his way home&#133; Once is in the sky, 'Air Force One' is hijacked and currently controlled by Russian radicals who ask for the release of their leader or they'll execute a prisoner every half hour&#133; Harrison Ford is the action hero making his way through the plane taking out few terrorists, managing to free several hostages, trying to get to his wife and daughter who are prisoners on board&#133; Gary Oldman almost steals the show as the head terrorist Ivan Korshunov who takes over the president's plane&#133;Beautifully directed by Wolfgang Petersen who controls the action with his usual extreme intelligence, building the challenge with captivating, tense sequences from every compartment of the huge aircraft to the White House contingent in Washington&#133; "},{"Title":"It is what it is......fun","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"51 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Nonstop action, thrilling suspense, dark humor, and a brilliant concept, this flag waving over the top action adventure was a good two hours in 1997.The story Enroute back to the States from Russia, Russian Nationals hijack the President's plane and hold him and his family (as well as most of his staff) hostage aboard Air Force One in order to release a Rouge General captured earlier.Harrison Ford from his first minute to his last looks comfortable in his Presidential role. That's to say, Ford appears, acts and just plain feels like he should be President. (Come one who saw this movie and wanted him to run). Gary Oldman's performance as the main villain (Ivan) should be up there with the likes of Alan Rickman's Hans from Die Hard and John Malkovich's Leary-Booth-Carney from In the Line of Fire (coincidentally directed by Wolfgang Peterson as well). Glenn Close pulls of the Vice President role with smirks and spunk.Stars aside I think the supporting cast should get an equal if not harder pat on the back. These guys&#133;and girls&#133;. really made the movie. They're the ones that brought the chuckles and caused gasps. Wendy Crewson (The Good Son) nailed her role with more grace than a first lady has actually shown in the last recallable years. Paul Guilfoyle (CSI, The Negotiator), was the kind gentle, best buddy, chief-of-staff, who brought a small smile to your face every time he is on-screen. Xander Berkeley (24, Terminator 2), plays the chilling secret service agent Gibbs. The lovable William H. Macy plays the good-mannered Air Force Officer who puts himself in harm's way for the President more time than the Secret Service agents do. He just doesn't get enough screen time toward the beginning. And Dean Stockwell will have you cussing under your breath as the power-hungry Secretary of Defense. And it seems that Wolfgang Peterson watched every great Action/Military movie of the past 3 years and hired all those briefing room generals. For this I applaud him. As for the terrorist, they rival those of Die hard. Cold, stone-faced, funny, smooth, and just plain hateable, they did their job.The bulk of the movie takes place aboard the Air Force One no kidding eh?). And boy do you believe it. The production designer (Williams Sandell) obviously paid attention to detail, mimicking the real Presidential Aircraft. Small, claustrophobic and believable.Andrew W. Marlowe's script gets it job done as well. Nothing award winning. It's everything you would expect given the story it has to tell. Couple times it will make you cringe, but again, look what it needs to accomplish.The late Jerry Goldsmith's score for this movie is a hands down classic. Only having two weeks to score the film after Peterson rejected Randy Newman's work, Goldsmith with the help of Joel Mcneely composed one of the most bombastic, riveting, emotional, suspenseful, and patriotic scores I've heard come out of the film world. It works perfectly with the movie.A few times your mind is going to be stretch you may have to resort to the It's just a movie mindset. Overall its fun. Not a bad way to spend 2 hours. Harrison Ford for President. "},{"Title":"Holy Cremoly!","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"56 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One features Harrison Ford, Glenn Close, Gary Oldman, Dean Stockewell, and William H. Macy. A dream cast! In the freshest, friskiest, funniest, laugh-out-loudest comedy of the year! Cheer as President Harrison Ford takes on the baddies all by himself &#150; Right now, he's our only hope. Hiss as Dean Stockwell tries to get Glenn Close to sign away power and take down Air Force One. Will she sign? Like hell! Sigh with relief when the fax machine stalls, stalls a little longer, and then&#133; just when we'd given up hope&#133; stalls a little longer, and then works! Clap like a whacked-out space cadet on class-a drugs when the fax lady parachutes to safety. Scratch your head a little when you realise that the big plot device of the bad guys having a guy on the inside is of no interest or use whatsoever. Ponder for a long time just why Gary Oldman's character doesn't just shoot the wife and the kid, for crying out loud. Marvel at the advances in special effects technology that can make a plane crash in a big budget movie look like a plane crash in a primitive video game. Thrills! Spills! Drama! Action! Utter, utter, crap! "},{"Title":"Air Farce Number One","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"64 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is intriguing in that it actually presages some of the terrorism realized in the tragedy of 9/11.That said, the film is mortally flawed with stupid and ridiculous contrivances that make is more of a comic book yarn than having the sophistication of, say, a Tom Clancy novel.High on the oh come on get real! factor 1. Any White House PressSecretary would be far too astute to let a self-describe TV journalist on Air Force One (AF1). The very first thing they would do is check the reporter's credentials and publication/broadcast record.2. The spectacle of a 747 jumbo jet careering through an airport on an aborted landing is simply light-years beyond absurd.3. Why would AF1 have a stash of enough assault rifles to take over a small country? And, with all the gunplay in the passenger cabin there's not one bullet hole in the fuselage?4. I have it on good authority that Air Force One does have countermeasures, but putting the president in an escape pod &#150; though fundamental to the plot &#150; it just inane. That's the *last* thing you would do with the U.S. President at 30,000 ft.5. Equally ridiculous is the idea that AF1 conveniently has more parachutes onboard than the Titanic had life preservers. Just as silly is the image of Washington bureaucrats easily jumping off the plane at 15,000 ft.6. I've been inside an open, stripped-down 747 airframe, there isn't nearly as much room as shown on the cargo deck. There certainly isn't room for a cargo deck vending machine?! I could go on and on, but this film is another example of filmmakers believing that movies goers are gullible enough to swallow any tall tale for the sake of lots of action shots and melodrama. If you've gonna concoct an action drama tale like this, at least have one foot in reality and plausibility, or otherwise call it science fiction. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch, if you do not make a big deal out of technical accuracy.","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Very entertaining action, once you get past the believability problems, i.e., terrorists getting on the plane at all, the plane having an on-board armory, Secret Service agents' inability to shoot accurately, etc.Acting is good enough that you care about the characters.As others have noted, the CGI aerial sequences sometimes have the aircraft moving in unnatural or impossible ways, and this is visually jarring. (After the touch-and-go, Air Force One turns a 180 almost like a helicopter) I gave it a 7 out of 10 - not brilliant, but makes for an entertaining evening. "},{"Title":"America, fock yeah","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"38 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Now I admired the director Wolfgang Petersen after seeing DAS BOOT. This was a flick where I thought Can't get any better. Of course, at the time, people obviously considered Hollywood a smart career move, but if we now take a look at Petersen's Hollywood films, I really think he should have stayed in Germany. Sure, he wouldn't have the money that he's having at his disposal now, but remember DAS BOOT had a rather infinitesimal budget and nevertheless managed to thrill, enlighten and entertain millions of viewers. Now, what do we have A German director who directs patriotic and nationalistic filth that invites the average American Joe to believe in the moral and military superiority of his own country. A movie that doesn't really discuss the topics at hand and divides the cast into good and evil with no shades of grey at all. There's one scene where Gary Oldman as the terrorist aboard the plane says to the president's daughter Do you think your father is a better man because he's wearing a tie and a suit and because he uses smart bombs? I found this scene to be very interesting, however, in the film it is not dwelt upon. Instead we get Harrison Ford playing the father and leader of clean, wholesome politically America and being politically correct and charming and funny and whatnot. What's the moral of this film God bless America and no place else. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get much worse than this","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"60 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" **Warning** Possible Spoilers ** I gave this a 1 because IMDb wouldn't let me give it a zero.I also must admit that I watched only 30 minutes of this piece of garbage. The hijacking of the President's aircraft by terrorists posing as Russian media was difficult to believe. That six people would be able to carry off such a feat, given the number of secret service agents that travel with the president, is highly unlikely. That hundreds of rounds from automatic weapons and large-caliber handguns could be fired on board an aircraft without affecting any critical systems is debatable. That terrorists could blow the cockpit door open, using some sort of plastic explosive, detonating it by firing a pistol at it (hitting it on the first shot, no less!), yet not injure the pilots or cause any damage to the flight deck is astonishing. When they managed to take control of the plane during landing, perform several off-road maneuvers with the plane that would make a Jeep proud, then get a Boeing 747 airborne again without benefit of a runway, that's when I went Popeye and decided I'd had all I could stand and I could stand no more.I can suspend my disbelief as well as the next guy, but this was just asking too much.I won't even go into the cheesy script and listless acting. Shameful. "},{"Title":"When Harrison Ford is President, All Hell Breaks Loose","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"34 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford plays a president who refuses to negotiate with terrorists. But after one terrorist (Gary Oldman) hijacks the Air Force One and the president's wife and daughter, maybe he will have to rethink his position.Allegedly, Kevin Costner was supposed to be playing the president. Boy am I glad he was too busy making The Postman for this movie. Not only did he make a great Postman, but he would have made a horrible president. When you want drama, you call Costner. When you want action, you call Bruce Willis. When you want the perfect blend of drama and action, you call Harrison Ford (think The Fugitive, for example... don't think Star Wars).Ford is great as a diplomat, but equally as good with a gun and in a fight. But the real star of this is Gary Oldman, who plays an evil and soulless terrorist determined to get his old general freed from prison. Oldman plays it like he means it, killing mercilessly while still appearing cold and calculated rather than insane. The writer even had the decency to have Oldman deliver lines condemning the president for bombing villages while being against terror.Glenn Close and Dean Stockwell made great supporting stars, and even William H. Macy seemed a little less flamboyant than usual in his role as a military man.This film is especially interesting in the context of our current president, George W. Bush. Bush has also gone on record many times for not negotiating with terrorists and takes a hardline approach similar to Harrison Ford. What would Bush do if terrorists hijacked his plane or kidnapped his family? Even giving me that visual image made this film worth the viewing. "},{"Title":"Great adventure","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"58 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is one great ride.  What makes it work so well is the conviction that Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman bring to their roles.  You can see in each actor's eyes that they stand behind what they believe in.  Gary Oldman makes a perfect villian and a very complex one at that.  He is not just an average, run of the mill madman.  He has a family, he is someone's son and those facts make him that much more real.  Harrison Ford is great as the president.  He's strong, quick witted, and will do anything he can to save his family and staff from the hijackers.  A good ride that will keep you on the edge of your seat for two hours, just as long as you don't ask any questions.   "},{"Title":"Good Solid Fun","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"48 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" An Action movie is made to entertain, and should always be taken at face value. With this in mind Air Force One hits the mark, despite some minor flaws it still delivers tension, drama and action in abundance.The cast is strong and full of believable characters, the story is compelling and the traditional dose of sentiment is added sparingly and to good effect. Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman both put in solid performances and they are well supported by the likes of Glenn Close and Wendy Crewson.Overall Air Force One is an safe bet for the average movie fan and should entertain most, without ever really excelling.7/10 "}{"Title":"Will the real president please stand up?","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I know what you're thinking, What the hell is he saying? It's true that we've had so many biographies about presidents in which some of the movies told about historic incidents, why not have a fictional president that could kick ass and take names? Harrison Ford is the man for the job.Air Force One is a thriller that involves Russian terrorist Ivan Korshunov (Gary Oldman) and his gang of criminals hijacking the first plane along with the president's wife and child and his staff. Meanwhile, President James Marshall (Harrison Ford) is hiding after an attack on the ship where he must reunite with his family before they end up victims to Ivan's plan if the president doesn't release a Russian prisoner who happens to be a general and a terrorist.The film itself is a nail bitter thriller with an all star cast as Ford and Oldman play their usual good guy/villain roles with Glenn Close, Wendy Crewson, Xander Berkerly and William H. Macy in supporting roles. If there was such thing where Harrison Ford had a nomination for president, I would vote. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking compendium of clichés","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The plane is damaged, one of his engines is out, and he's leaking fuel. How can he make it? Something like that anyway. The clichés came so thick and fast I couldn't remember them all. I couldn't even GRASP them all quickly enough, piled as they were, one atop the other, like a pile of Leggos.I don't really think it's necessary to bother with the script except to say a rogue group of Russians hijacks Air Force One, is overcome by the President of the United States, and most of the good guys are saved and all of the bad guys perish, usually in some colorful fashion.Wolfgang Petersen made a gripping movie with Das Boot. It was a long flick of mostly quiet moments, a leisurely examination of life aboard a U-Boat, punctuated with shocking moments of action. In Air Force One Petersen's talents have been -- dare I say hijacked by Hollywood? There is no leisurely examination of anything. There is neither leisure nor examination. All the parts that might bore a twelve-year-old weaned on Call of Duty have been cut out of the script and nothing is left but one recycled action scene after another, some of them already parodied in Airplane, backed up by a booming score.Here's an indication of how the movie was assembled, the kind of thought that went into it. When it was released there appeared an article in the NY Times written by an actor (whose name I now forget) playing one of the characters (whose name I don't know) in innocent conversation with Harrison Ford as the President, when shots are heard from elsewhere in Air Force One as the takeover starts.As the actor described the first run-through, at the sound of the gunshots, he rose to his feet and sauntered over to the window to find out what was up. He was told he'd have to jump to his feet and run to the door. Why? he asked. The Secret Service is aboard, there are security agents all over. Nobody could possibly be expecting an armed attack. A normal reaction would be to try to find out what the noise was. He was told by the director that everyone in the scene would immediately recognize the gunshots for exactly what they were. Ford, a seasoned veteran of such attacks, told the actor tiredly, They're gunshots, period. Why waste three or four flaccid seconds having the actor stroll to the door? That kind of dedication and efficiency is in evidence throughout Air Force One. Bang, bang, whoosh, zap. The President, by the way, is practically superhuman. He speaks Russian albeit with a gloopi American accent. He cuts his bound wrists free and immediately disarms and kills two or three of his captors. I lost count. Well, okay, he was a CMH winner. But then how did he learn to fly a jumbo jet? Never mind.A more interesting question is how did they pick the villains? Kazakhistan rebels? A rogue group of Russians? This is rather retro stuff because absolutely nobody watching the movie knows or cares about Kazakhistan or its internal affairs. The simple fact is that viewers will see and hear the heavies speaking Russian and that will be enough for them. (I forget when Crimson Tide was released, using the same ploy. It's the Russkies again alright, only a splinter group.) The faces of American fighter pilots are illuminated by a comforting pale off-white light, while their opposite numbers are as green as algae. To top it off, the Russian Premier looks like Jonathan Winters coming down from battery acid while our President looks exactly like Harrison Ford. And if you STILL don't get the point, the Kazakhhomaniac rebels sing a rousing version of Die Internazionale. Nowadays, of course, nine years later, they'd all be speaking Arabic.The movie offers some fascinating tidbits in addition to its knuckle-whitening suspense. The set representing the interior of Air Force One, for instance. It's full of nooks and crannies and it seems about the size of the Dixie Hotel. Functional furniture, but comfortable and expensive. Soundproof, bulletproof, insulated against an atomic blast. A staff of well-trained servants who know when to leave the master alone to ponder weighty questions about the world's future. (In all these respects it rather resembles my place.) It also has a steam pipe, which the list of clichés calls for, just as in those factories or warehouses in which the final shootout takes place in other action movies. The steam pipe is shot up and people in pursuit of each other wisp their way through the mist. What is that steam pipe doing there? Have we been mistaken all these years about how jet engines work? Are modern airplanes really powered by the same plants that made the Stanley Steamer roll on its merry way? I half expected Ford to stumble across the gigantic elastic band that spun the engine blandes. What makes it finally so preposterous is the notion that this or any other country could organize itself with such alacrity and efficiency in the face of an unexpected emergency of these proportions. When the president finally contacts the situation room and asks who has taken over Air Force One, the reply is, A group of Russian ultra-nationalists. This is nothing more than cashing in on ancient hatreds for a buck. And we pay for that self satisfaction on the world stage, by damaging the image of America abroad. How about a Russian movie in which a group of murdering thugs tries to kidnap Vladimir Putin and they are called American ultra-nationalists? How would we respond?As propaganda it is retrograde and execrable crap. As a movie, it's just another Airport 97 with the president and his family aboard. "},{"Title":"Air Head One.","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One (1997) Dir Wolfgang Peterson / Cast Harrison Ford, Gary Oldman, Glenn Close, Wendy Crewson, Dean Stockwell At long last Harrison Ford plays the President and he believes in a country of moral fiber. Boy, does he have high hopes. Terrorist attack Air Force One and it is believed that the President escaped by pod but he refuses to leave without his family. This means that he will take on the enemy at their own game until reaching a stupid beyond stupid climax that has the President duke it out with the head terrorist. Give me a break and a bloody Tylenol to help digest the crap this film dished out! Are the makers of this film that totally ignorant or do they just lack a sense of reality? I was waiting for Wolfgang Peterson to emerge the President in tights and a cape from a phone booth. This is one of the dumbest ideas of the year, and despite Gary Oldman's efforts as the villain, the role is still predictable. That means that the President will eat his spinach and grow super powers and kick his ass. Glenn Close does her best as Vice-President but fails to make us believe that she actually gives a sh*t. Is that not the phony agenda of this bullshit? Wendy Crewson as the First lady is as flat as an A cup bra. The film is an example of overspending and good actors who should have been cast in a better film. Film's purpose is to create the biggest Americanized peep show. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Beyond All Belief","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Tried again to watch this dross again on the TV last night. Failed again. I stood twenty minutes this time, until the bullshit meter went off the clock. The ridiculous SEAL team battle at the beginning where the baddies were all bad shots was laughable. Then the assault on the 747 with rifles firing on full auto was utterly ridiculous. It would have taken only one of these rounds to have punctured the pressure hull, yet none did.Why did some rooms on the plane seem to be huge offices on dry land and nothing like plane compartments ? To get past the obvious security checks simply have a platoons worth of M16s already on the plane for them to use. Surely a dumb move by the Secret Service, an even dumber move by the scriptwriters. Why did Ford and Oldman waste their time on this? Had a big bill just come in from the IRS ? "},{"Title":"How comes W.Petersen ended up by doing...this?","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What happened? After Das Boot, after Outbreak...in brief after those two quite good movies, Wolfgang Petersen does Air Force 1! How could such a ludicrous, pompous, deliberately over-stuffed with fake patriotism, weak and annoying film be made by such a usually good director? Of course, we all make mistakes, but mistakes as vapid and yet as expensive as that? Another thing that I don't understand is how comes actors like Harrison Ford, Gary Oldman and Glenn Close could agree to play in that masterpiece? Oldman does a terrific job, as usual. At least his character doesn't look dumb, shallow and dull. Wait, wasn't he supposed to be the absolute bad guy? Then how comes he's so sympathetic? Perhaps because all the others are so irritating. Harrison Ford plays...his usual self without the sense of humor.As one of the users so accurately put it, this movie insults our intelligence. To avoid at all costs (or see it for Oldman's performance). "},{"Title":"Wretched, inane, infantile, moronic excuse for a film","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Those are probably the nicest words I can use to describe this steaming pile of excrement posing (badly) as a movie.  Ludicrous and insulting to the intelligence in almost every scene, I might be able to forgive this if it were done in a campy, just for laughs style, but this is ridiculous!Harrison Ford was once one of my favorite actors, but after this debacle I will never again have the respect I once held for this thespian.  Every performance was completely over the top and subsequently unconvincing. The physics and logistical plot holes were unforgivable.  And the utter predictability is the final nail in this movie's coffin.  I would have walked out long before the end, but I just had to stay to see if I could see if what I predicted would come true.  As soon as it did, I split. That this movie received ANY positive reviews is revealing and sad, and the attitude that the world would end if anything happened to our beloved president frankly makes me embarrassed to be an American.  One of the worst movies (if not THE worst) I have ever had the misfortune of seeing.  "},{"Title":"Good actors, bad movie...(spolers)","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Five things we learn after watching this movie 1.All Russians are either terrorists or cowards. 2.MP5, MP5K, M4 and Sig Sauer PRO are superior wonders of Western weaponary, which need no reloading ever. 3.When 6 Russian fighters attack Air Force One only one of them will fire    at a time.(Courtesy towards enemy anti-missle system, I guess)) 4.In air combat, Russian pilots never maneuver, even when targeted, guess, there is no chance to escape superior American missiles, so they don't bother anyway. 5.When a terrorist fires a gun, the bullet is stopped by body armor. When President fires the same gun, bullets go through armor like a knife through butter. 2/10 for casting Oldman. "},{"Title":"High Tension, Action, Heroism &  PC","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"39 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A very clichéd but interesting film with a two-fisted President of the United States (Harrison Ford) literally taking on terrorism himself on board his jet, Air Force One. Believable? Of course not, but it's an story that hooks you in and keeps you involved all the way. It could have been trimmed down, to be sure, but the better-than-average action scenes help make up for that. While not blatant, the film did have it's typical Hollywood Liberal slant with political correctness abounding....so be aware of that. It borders on reverse sexism and racism and there is a fair share of profanity in here if you are concerned about that. The sound on the DVD is tremendous with some excellent rear speaker action. It would be great demo model for anyone's surround sound system. It adds measurably to the enjoyment of the film. If you like action and a lot of tension, this film has it. It's one of those movies that wears you out by the end of it! "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What a movie! TROMA eat your heart out! Multi-million budget for a B class Under Siege rip-off(which was a B-movie itself). This is one of the worst movies  so far, among there with Battlefield Earth and Star Wars Episode 1. UNBELIEVABLY bad! Wooden Ford, monstrous Russians, killing in the name of MOTHER-RUSSIA, battle with MIGs - that a movie to watch! The best part is where Russians are singing INTERNATIONAL at jail and everyone in White House, on board of hijacked plane hears them through intercom.The hole thing looks and feel like a cold war movie made in 70's. SUMMARY Either 1 or 10(if you like a good kitsch film).   "},{"Title":"Terrible, absolutely terrible","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really didn't like Air Force One. The entire thing seems to be a US propaganda movie, with the bad Russians and the good Americans. The air-combat scenes are completely unrealistic. Since when did modern jet fighters come unequipped with anything but short-range cannons? And since when did US Presidents come with a built-in commando course? This movie is silly, silly, silly. A Norwegian daily had the headline Hallelujah, America! on the review, which I think suits the movie well. It's unrealistic, stupid, and pervaded by American glory and patriotism.  "}{"Title":"Air Force One, 1st among the crappiest crap","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have seen good movies, mediocre movies and bad movies. I have seen very bad European arty movies and very good U.S. ones despite being a little bit of a mass market product. But Air Force One is a movie that breaks all records of low quality and standards.What really puzzles me is why on earth respectable, decent actors agree to play such idiotic characters in unbelievable stupid and over-budgeted productions. Of course I didn't expect to find an award-winning movie with such a gringo topic, but I did expect to have good acting with a fairly decent story, nothing fantastic but at least worthy of spending two hours watching. This was not the case.Ok, most of Hollywood movies go somewhere along these lines democracy defenders and Beacons of the World (i.e. The U.S.)suffer some kind of attack by some crazy, fanatic, and perverted representative of the forces of Evil (i.e. anyone but the U.S.); although the good ones are outnumbered, outwitted and cornered by the evil ones, they always find a way to overcome the crisis and win. In summary any of George Bush's pot dreams. But, aside from the inherent comedy involved in such ideas, why spend valuable resources such as production money and top actor's salary if just a simple action hero and (good) digital special effects would do?Poor story, poor acting, non-existent continuity or factual veracity in a single movie cannot be accidental. There must be a hidden significance, a conspiracy. Bring in Mulder and Scully, fast!The only thing that made me happy after watching this piece of truly American chedar was that I didn't pay to watch it at the cinema, but only spent the equivalent of less than USD2.00 for the second-hand VCD, though I still think I spent too much. Can I have a refund? "},{"Title":"Satisfactory.","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One is not a good film. It is just an alright film. The things that were not good about Air Force One is that the special effects looked horrible, unconvincing, unbelievable and looked like they did not even belong to the picture in the first place. I felt sick looking at them. The movie also lacked in breathlessness and in being spectacular and had a poor filmmaking quality feel to it. However, the movie was arguably redeemed by impressive performances from Ford, Oldman and Close, a strong emotional side to it and a flawless, sharp direction from Wolfgang Petersen. Moreover, Gary Oldman was an attractive and cold villain and by his behavior and actions managed to make me feel cold and feel hatred toward him. Well done on all of that. My rating 6.2/10 "},{"Title":"Moments of utter cheese but also kinda awesome","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Throughout watching this movie I kept waffling between this is a piece of crap, I've got to shut it off and this is freaking awesome! So I sat through the whole thing.Yes, Air Force One has its moments of utter cheese but then there are also some surprisingly intense action scenes which mostly involved the actual plane, Air Force One or mid air refuelling or parachuting or fighter jets or Gary Oldman executing someone or Harrison Ford kicking ass.There's also some decent acting; Glen Close is really good as the Vice president as is William H Macy in what must have been an early role for him. Even Ford surprised me here with a couple of poignant scenes.The moments of flag waving patriotism and the ultimate get off my plane line upped the cheese factor but I have to admit in a fun way. 8/10/13 "},{"Title":"The A Team Gary Oldman and FAX Lady!","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Who does not worship at the altar of the evil incarnate Gary Oldman? OK given his Immortal Beloved venture, went against type but he represents the zenith of scare tactics even with the most insipid of actors, Harrison Ford. You can tell he did not know what hit him when his eyes realllly bugged out in all of the strangleholds by Oldman. Ford was in real pain and fear and I was cheering, FINALLY a real emotion from this one noter.The only dialogue worth mentioning was the reference to killing 100K Iraqis to affect pump price reductions. This sentimental USA All the Way notion would fall on deaf ears today given the lowest ratings for leadership. I am confident we would be overjoyed with a huge military base from China near Los Angeles. There are approximately 800 'known' bases around the world, that is some kinda democracy imho.Where did they discover the FAX Lady? She was awarded PostMaster General for sending a 3line FAX, and she LOVES Skydiving! I believe that honor would be best bestowed to the President's daughter, she had it all under control. Another astute observation is the Russian actors sure were good looking and hard to view as enemies, they even work out! However, not enough for that savage cunning 53YO President who kicked a$$ in 'Nam 30+ years prior.I respect the director for his other projects, i.e. Das Boot, unclear how he would accept this dirge of gratuitous.... you name it, they had it. Consequently, hilarity ensues with this many hits and more misses than is conceivable. Congrats Hollywood!PS - Could not believe how President's wife looked and sounded like Sharon Stone. "},{"Title":"Really Solid Movie","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I don't know why this movie is rated so low. I think it is MUCH better then what other reviewers have said. Somewhat cliché plot but very exciting and suspenseful. Great acting from Gary Oldman and Harrison Ford. The Cast - really solid all around, a bunch of recognizable faces that you cant quite put your finger on, and some big names. Harrison Ford leads the way, along with Gary Oldman as the Russian Terrorist. Both do a really great job. Xander Berkeley and Jurgen Prochnow both are other recognizable names. Berkeley does a really good job. Glenn Close.....where to begin. I did not like her at all in this movie. Really annoying and doesn't show much emotion.The Plot - James Marshall(Ford) decides that the United States wont negotiate with terrorists at a big conference. Later that evening aboard Air Force One terrorists take over the plane with help from an inside source. Everyone thinks Marshall is off the plane because Secret Service evacuated him, but he's ready to fight. Marshall starts attacking from the shadows, and Korshunov(Oldman) is slowly losing his patience. Marshall eventually is caught, and confronts Korshunov for the first time. Comments - Reminds me strongly of Passenger 57 (with Marshall sneaking around) + Executive Decision + Cliffhanger (plane rescue at the end). But the mix works well, as it is as tense and exciting as any movie! Recommended "},{"Title":"More Trouble On t'Plane.","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Crikey, them terrorists never let up. Only the previous year they hijacked a jumbo jet, somehow managed to smuggle a fork-lift-pallet sized bomb on board, and a small arsenal of handguns and machine guns.That was 'Executive Decision', starring Steven Segal and Kurt Russell. This time, they manage to hijack the American president's own private jet, Airforce One. Harrison Ford plays the President-with-attitude, and it takes an actor of his gravitas to make such hokum watchable. I stress 'watchable' not believable. Ford heads an excellent cast in what is a classic Hollywood thriller. There's twists and tension all the way as an apparently missing president does the Steven Segal/Bruce Willis thing on the plane. Once again the baddies want some imprisoned bloke (played by Jurgen Procknow) set free. They're eastern Europeans this time.Eventually, the president is caught and it becomes one of those tiresome, mawkish 'family' issues. Like 'Executive Decision' it grows increasingly implausible towards the end. It has its moments, but is not as good. And it is never believable.It's so ironic that with so much carefully-crafted aerial espionage in the movies, no alarm-bells were set ringing elsewhere. Why wasn't 9/11 ever anticipated? Did Hollywood have to make a movie about hijacked jets being crashed into building before pentagon pen-pushers and Langley loafers finally took their feet off the desks and did what they were paid to do?And can anybody imagine any president or political leader doing the heroic thing? I don't think so. In fact that's about the most unbelievable element of all! 'Executive decision' has the edge over this movie. It is as tense, as well made, as well acted, scripted, and has as stellar a cast. Where it scores over this one is in sheer believability. But if you can get your head round the hokum, this is still a very adequate thriller. "},{"Title":"Not a classic but enjoyable","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One is what you would expect, a trash action-thriller which borders almost on propaganda, but that does not make it a poor film. Obviously there is a constant barrage of American patriotism (how more patriotic can you get than the American President retaking a terrorist controlled air force one), but this does not make it a film which most people would vomit over. It is rather surprisingly quite entertaining.Despite the fact that the film is 2 hours long (a time which could have been easily shortened with the cutting of a few meaningless scenes at the end) but the film doesn't let up on the action or the excitement. Predominantly the film is a) watching Gary Oldman taunt the white house or executing passengers and b) watching Harrison Ford walking around looking confused in the baggage area, however there are quite a few gun fights and up-close-and-personal fight scenes which punctuate the banter and keep the audience gripped. None of this is particularly new but nevertheless is entertaining.The acting is surprisingly adequate. Most of the characters in the film haven't got particularly challenging roles, only Gary Oldman, Glenn Close and Harrison Ford who have to stretch their ability, which the best is of course Gary Oldman who it seems has to support almost the entire film with his menacing image, which he pulls off rather well. Although his accent isn't brilliant (see 5th element) he is still by far and away the most menacing of the baddies and the most interesting character. It is particularly satisfying to see him humiliate some of the bureaucratic and arrogant politicians in the white house no one does this to America... All in all Air Force One is obviously not a masterpiece and does not make any pretense to be so. What it is is a largely entertaining pretty well done action-thriller with the right amount of dialogue, action and suspense which keeps the audience thrilled. "},{"Title":"overrated crap","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If you are not one of US patriots, without brain, with high blood alcohol content and no idea about reality, this is for you.For the other people, don't waste your time. In first minutes (during that speech), you can see what level of hypocrisy this movie reached.This is not some cult movie, this is just stupid movie with H.Ford as main character - unfortunately, very stupid and ridiculous character. You can also laugh many times, but that was not true intention of film makers, that is just sad laughing at another stupidity, you just saw.I would like to know what would be the true rating of this movie if it would be the same story about any other president.. "},{"Title":"Too many climaxes, too many slow parts","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" President James Marshall (Harrison Ford) is a no non-sense leader who just gave a zero tolerance on terrorism speech. Ironically, terrorists hijackers take over Air Force One. Ivan Korshunov (Gary Oldman) the leader of the terrorists is a Russian nationalist looking to free General Radek (Jürgen Prochnow) and replace the Russian government.Wolfgang Petersen directs this action movie. Forget about any realism problems, this is strictly a popcorn movie. There is no need to turn on your brain. Harrison Ford is a credible president, and more importantly, he is a credible action hero. The vice president (Glenn Close) is running things from the White House.There is just too much talking, negotiating, and too much international politics seriousness. At over 2 hours, there are too many slow parts. And the ending has way too many climaxes. They should think about who needs to be killed last. They should kill the big bad last because that should be the one big climax. "},{"Title":"Now HERE is a president I can get behind!","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford portrays the true American ideal. He is brave. He is loyal. He is true. Aside from the way Andrew Marlowe wrote the character of James Marshall, Harrison Ford portrays this president with a level of honor and dignity this country has not seen in many, many years. It moves me and touches my patriot heart in ways most other flag-waving flicks can only hope to do.This story is riveting and action-filled, while retaining its quality of a story-driven work with honest and believable dialog. Wolfgang Peterson is a talented director, and his gift shows herein. The element of humanity one finds in the overall execution of the work is inspiring, to say the least. The overall style is not slick, it is gritty. The sentiment is not polished, it is raw. The humanity is not made for public viewing, it is meant for personal consumption...for we are people. Do I sound dramatic? Perhaps because this movie affects me in a way that IS dramatic. I want a James Marshallesque president. Oh yes. I do.This is not for casual viewing...at least not for people like me. But regardless of your patriotism, location, or citizenship, this is an excellent action film, even if it does not invoke the same response from everyone that it does from me. I think this is one of Ford's finest movies, that Gary Oldman is a fine antagonist, and that I can actually watch William H. Macy now without groaning...as much.It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend. "}{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable throw away fodder","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Thoroughly enjoyable throw away fodder that doesn't stand up to intense scrutiny after the fact.Director Wolfgang Petersen does very well with what is a flawed flick of predictable outcomes and highly unlikely scenarios. Mister Petersen milks every tense scene for all the nerve jangling it can deliver, and turns each action sequence into an exciting, edge of the seat thriller. Visual and sound effects teams back the director up well, and Jerry Goldsmith's rousing, heroic score is a real plus. Editing is also a big positive.Although the theme of the good old Americans versus the bad old Russians is getting tired, the cast all do well to involve the audience in this high adrenalin pic. Ford is convincing as tough President James Marshall, and Gary Oldman comfortably adds another villain to his list. While the pair are consummate professionals, some fresh faces might have been good. Glenn Close gets little to do as Madam Vice President and William H. Macy's talents are largely wasted on his meagre role. Also stars Dean Stockwell.Cast, crew and director make Air Force One a flight not to be missed.Saturday, November 15, 1997 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"So bad i think it gave me cancer","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Quick recap Well without revealing it for everyone, lets just say the President is so bad-ass he saves the day, single-handedly killing all the bad guys a la Rambo (but with bare hands), then making love to all the women on board, before going on to land the plane blindfolded & gagged on an airstrip the size of a Brazilian, (no-one gets hurt) all the while jingoistic music is playing in the score and all the cast are chanting USA, USA, USA. I can't remember who, where, how or indeed why this was recommended to me but whoever it was (i assume you know who you are) should be thoroughly ashamed of themselves, as should Ford, Oldman, Close & Macy. I hope the green was worth it. "},{"Title":"Good action flick","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  'Air Force One' is a slick, fast-paced, exciting thriller &#150; not very innovative or ground-breaking in any respect, but solidly made and well executed. Harrison Ford gives a commanding performance as the President (wouldn't we all like to have someone like him in the White House?), and Gary Oldman is &#150; as always &#150; an excellent choice as the villain, snarling and delivering his punch lines with fierce conviction. Glenn Close, Dean Stockwell and William H. Macy add to a convincing supporting cast.There are a few scenes where credibility is stretched far beyond the limit &#150; for instance a sequence where the plane lands, skids around the airport at several hundred mph and then takes off again (not to mention all the shooting going on inside the plane, miraculously avoiding any damage to the fuselage or windows). But if you're willing to swallow this (and loads and loads of American patriotism as well), 'Air Force One' is two hours of solid, well-made entertainment. I'll give it a 4 out of 6 on my dice, and recommend it if you want to watch an exciting movie without having to apply your brain too heavily.  "},{"Title":"a terrific action-thriller","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" From director Wolfgang Petersen comes this tense, high-energy thriller centering around the hijacking of Air Force One. Having just told the world that he will not negotiate with terrorists, steadfast U.S. President Ford has his policy&#x97;but more importantly the lives of his family and entire administration&#x97;put to the test when his plane is taken over in mid-air by merciless Russian radicals. While the White House and his Cabinet try to resolve the conflict from the ground, he decides to take matters into his own hands and fight back. Explosive action scenes, credible performances, and intense, adrenaline-pumping drama take viewers on a wild ride that makes an implausible situation seem completely believable! Ford is perfectly cast as a renegade president, Close an added bonus as his second-in-command, Oldman powerful and frightening as the brutal terrorist leader. A must for action fans. *** "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford for President! A real stand-up-and-cheer film!","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the best I've seen in a long time.  It offers continuous action like in The Fugitive (coincidentally another wonderful Ford performance) and Ashley Judd's Double Jeopardy; great performances from supporting cast members William H. Macy, Gary Oldman, and Glenn Close; and stirring, incredible special effects like from Robin Williams' What Dreams May Come.     But what I think I like the most about the film is the slam-bang writing that is not only dramatic and inspiring, but also delivers a little comedy (If this works, you get to be Postmaster-General.)  When some of those lines are delivered, you'll want to stand up and cheer (Get off my plane.).  I saw the film three times and every time the audience cheered at at least point. Finally, I've never seen a better portrayal of the President.  I'll say it again HARRISON FORD FOR PRESIDENT!!! "},{"Title":",,, and instead of that you got","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" An imbecile, a liar and a coward for president. Someone who was so fetching afraid of his ally (Bulgaria) that Secret Service agents ORDERED the soldiers from President's escort company to remove the bayonets from their riffles which of course were empty of bullets too. He was so fetching afraid that even the police who were supposed to protect him were disarmed. This movie is so blatant propaganda it is shame for everyone that has created it. Apart from that, the enemies since long time ago are not the Russians. We all know who exactly they are and who exactly they were before becoming an US enemies. Right - they were friends and protected and working with CIA help and American taxpayers money. So don't give us bullshits for breakfast with this, excuse me, movie. 0 points from me. "},{"Title":"Did they hand flags out for this one?","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Insipid. Run screaming from this rubbish. Can't help but think of the theme song to Team America - America, **** Yeah.Overall, its die hard on a plane (that is obviously made by the same people who made the Tardis, as it seems infinitely large). Lots of people sacrificing themselves for the Pres, lots of saluting followed by heroic deaths. Would obviously mean more to American audiences, but to everyone else, pass the bucket. "},{"Title":"One is right, but only because there is no zero!","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  STUPID!  I think when they rank the worst 100, it should be done relative to the film's budget.  If so, Air Force One should qualify.  The story is completely asinine.  The characters all behave recklessly and ridiculously.  Only the redoubtable Jurgen Prochnow manages to come out of this mess with his dignity intact.  Harrison Ford is the least Presidential-acting US President ever to appear on film -- and that includes the likes of Polly Bergen, John Ritter, and Donald Pleasance.  Gary Oldham is every cold-war caricature mixed together, then run amok, all wrapped up in a preposterous accent, overblown mannerisms, and a maniacal laugh.  Xander Berkeley's stunt was almost as impossible as his wooden performance.  Paul Guilifoyle is the most disloyal and ignorant Chief-of-Staff ever depicted.  Wendy Crewson is doing a nothing job, and does less with it.  The pacing is so painstakingly slow, it was hard to believe this was an action movie.  The special effects were labored and cumbersome, and the score was a near-perfect parody of action movie scores.I had to write all this because IMDB no longer accepts four-line reviews.  If they did, I simply would have written STUPID STUPID STUPID STUPID STUPID STUPID STUPID, etc.  "},{"Title":"The way America wishes they were","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  During a flight, Air Force One is taken over by terrorists.  The security forces rush the president to the escape pod but he stays to help his family.  However with the terrorists making great demands and starting to kill hostages on the plane the President has to make contact with the ground but also take on the terrorists.It's not an original idea &#150; Die Hard on a plane.  But hang on we've done Die Hard on a plane at least a few times in Passenger 57 and Executive Decision so how can we do it again?  By putting it on air force one of course.  So the President becomes John McClane and Gary Oldman is the usual Brit playing Euro-trash terrorist.  The difference between this and Die Hard is that here the action is a lot more stilted and underplayed &#150; which is a surprise for an action movie.  However it does manage to have a good tension so it's still good.It adds interest by having the action in the ground along with the political fighting in the White House over control of the situation.  It isn't an earth shattering script but it is good enough to get you carried away easily.  The only downside is that you can nearly always see where the formula is going at any one time.The cast is good and is deep.  Ford has the age to play a President but the action status to give him that fighting edge.  Oldman is no stranger to hamming up his bad guys and doing iffy accents and here turns in a so-so performance as a cartoon terrorist.  The support cast is good &#150; even if they have little to do.  Glenn Close, Dean Stcokwell et al don't have much to do but talk loud but do it well.  Macy, Berkeley, Prochnow and other big names add weight but have few lines.Overall this is a big Hollywood blockbuster that no doubt helped America feel good about itself.  It sticks close to the formula but the action is slick and quite tense and makes for an enjoyable, if unoriginal, 2 hours. "},{"Title":"NeoCon masturbation fantasy","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" OK, the action sequences kick ass, and Gary Oldman is always a great bad guy, so those two things elevated it above one star. The whole thing has the creepy flavor of one big right wing circle-jerk. Principally has the effect of making me embarrassed for the many great actors who are so much better than this material.Particularly as we wind down the disastrous Bush years, this nonsense is not going to wear well historically. But then, the movie isn't meant to be taken very seriously. At least I hope it isn't, because it would be impossible. I imagine this kind of thing goes over great with the McCain-Palin rally crowd; anyone else will choke on the schmaltzy sugar-coated fascism. You want a real action movie? Watch Die Hard. Greatest action movie ever. You want a right wing masturbation fantasy? This is your flick. "}{"Title":"This movie is a joke","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have not yet seen movie as bad as this when it comes to military operations. Without even going into how bad the plot and special effects are, one thing is worse then anything else.6 MIG29s are behind Air Force One for over two minutes. Only two of them fire missiles. Each MIG29 is equipped with 4 air-to-air RR77 missiles that have a minimum range of 30 miles. They could have fired all those missiles from farther ahead long time before they got to the plane. So first question is why didn't they fire more missiles? Why only one missile and then wait 5 more minutes to fire another one so F15 could get in a way and die for it? And then we have 6 F15 that fire their missiles all at the same time toward MIGs. Anyone who knows anything about these jets would now that MIGs SPO system (system that tells pilot he has been locked on by enemy fighter) would have picked up those missiles from F15 long time before. Actually, everything that I wrote doesn't even have to be said because at such small distance between fighters, it is Impossible to use missiles. Only guns would be able to be used. Missiles are absolutely useless at such small distances. This is Top Gun kind of crap.Not to mention that over the years, many real-life simulations in air have showed that MIG29 has unmatchable maneuverability over F15 in a close air to air combat. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable action flick","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford, Gary Oldman, and Glenn Close are the main stars in director Wolfgang Petersen's action thriller 'Air Force One', a film about the scenario of the famous presidential jet being taken over by a group of terrorists. The terrorists, led by Ivan Korshunov (Oldman) want one thing, the release of one of their comrades named General Redek. However, little do they know the President is a very intelligent and lethal man, and the film becomes a cat and mouse game onboard the air liner between the terrorists and the president. The suspense works out well, there are some good moments of surprise and plenty of good action sequences. The film keeps its momentum and pace going, despite some lame moments through out (e.g. the 'parachuting' scene). Harrison Ford is enjoyable in the role of the tough- as- nails president, but it's not particularly anything new for the actor. Gary Oldman is spectacular as the cold blooded terrorist, he is very commanding and daunting in the role. Close also her role well, making the character live, also worth nothing is William H. Macy as a major on board the flight. The script has some nice lines to it, and some strongly written scenes of action, though there are still notable clichés. Petersen's direction is almost furious in style, he tries his hardest to not let the film fall apart, and in some way he succeeds. All in all, 'Air Force One' is worth watching, it's not necessarily one of the top action films of all time, but it has plenty of moments  and is definitely entertaining. Oldman is also a very nice treat. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Et tu, Wolfgang?","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Normally, I never bother going to the movies to see flicks of this type; hell, why should I as it is obvious that they'll appear on TV sooner or later. Come to think of it, I had to wait 6 years to see this...What we have here is a Petersen movie. Das Boot, In The Line Of Fire, anybody? Piloted by a heavyweight cast of Hollywood stars including Ford, Close, Oldman, etc., etc. I mean, you cannot go wrong with that lineup? ...or can you?Yes! After having watched ~30 minutes of this, I was struck by the sinister urge of writing the most abusive review ever. Folks - this is a movie from the year 1997, A.D. Anachronism of this sort belongs to the 70s/80s, not to the nineties; the worst kind of clichés and stereotypes displayed here instantly force you to recall flicks such as Red Heat, Rocky IV, the Bond movies that dealt with the Soviet regime, you name it. OK, so these had the excuse of being spawned to an era of political tensions. But how about this? A script that pits the US President (WTF?) against a gang of vicious Russian terrorists (Christ!)?Remarkably enough, none of the actors manages to deliver a good performance. I felt sorry for Ford, he looked like Leslie Nielsen. Was _this_character_ really what he discussed about with Bill Clinton at the dinner table? Oldman is even worse and that really made me sad, as I have always considered him one of the best actors around. My condolences to the people who sat at any of the movie theaters in Russia, forced to watch (and listen) Oldman reading out his manifesto (nonsense supposed to be ultranationalist`) with one of the most horrendous Russian accents heard since Dolph Lundgren opened his trap in Rocky IV. (Yoo vill ceess yoor military eskort...) Worse still, due to the thick English accent, the Russian that Gary and his henchmen speak does not even remotely sound Russian. Do NOT tell me that there weren't any real Russian actors available for the job. (And what's with that bloke who played the silly Soviet scientist in MacGyver running around and suddenly being a hardcore terrorist?) Heavy miscastings/performances and blatantly stereotypical characters sum up  the worst silver screen ridiculing of Russians I've ever witnessed )Glenn Close is truly annoying (yet another unpleasant surprise), she really could have dropped that metallic, aggressive voice of hers. Oh, and every scene that involves the West Wing following the President's progress deserves extra credit for the worst overdramatization EVER. The feeling that someone would suddenly spring up and gasp the He's a MADMAN! line from Spy Hard was constantly almost palpable.The plot has nothing to it, really. There is no tension, no entertainment value, nothing. Hijackers shooting hostages - for heaven's sake, by now we have probably all seen Die Hard or Under Siege, why repeat all that? The rest consists mainly of the underperforming Oldman, ranting in his Anglorussian and the overperforming Ford, sneaking about and nailing one dead-stupid baddie after another, spouting daft Stallonean one-liners here and there(I'm counting on you, red, white and blue or Get off my plane!). The movie gradually gets cornier towards the end and the plot acquires even more laughable dimensions. (My favourite being the dreadful Parachuting Scene that probably defies every law of physics available and provides the viewer with some hearty laughs as the happily smiling staff people float across the blue screen). I lost count on how many brave US patriots (including the effete William H. Macy) willingly took a bullet for the superhuman President Ford in this movie. Why, God, why? And if there actually was any political message concealed here, one more complex than Do NOT mess with the US - yes, especially you, reds then I surrender, it was beyond me.Gah, I could rant and rave on forever, but what's the point? What I can say is that if you have somehow managed to miss the overacted, atrocious uberpatriotic piece of garbage that is Air Force One, consider yourself lucky. Clearly, this is THE stupidest picture given the green light to. Well done, Hollywood, congrats, Wolfgang. 1/10 (1 point for the unparalleled amusement value). "},{"Title":"Lousy script and special effects","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is another one of those simplistic, over-patriotic movies where the script could fit on two pages. Another All-American hero/ handsome guy/brilliant/good father/excellent fighter/president/ everything a man can be/and more, saves the entire world again-type movie. This is backed by lousy special effects where, once again, all the laws of physics are broken. Awful movie.  "},{"Title":"Sell Out City","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  How much were this fantastic cast paid to take part in this thoroughly wretched piece of cinematic rubbish.I enjoy action movies, but there has to be some basis of realism to an action film. In Air Force One it would seem that a group of people sat around a table and, for laugh, thought up the most far fetched scenario they possibly could. Then ,just to make it totally unwatchable, they decide they would have the corny American Patriotism delivered in dump trucks.The bad guy is Russian so that means we hate him and that he is evil. The good guy is none other than the President of the United States and even though he sits behind a desk, attends meetings and functions, he is actually better at fighting and shooting than trained soldiers that are just out of war.Has this guy ever thought of writing for Soap Operas. He is natural.The look of the film is good but the special effects were a good bit shy of what I expected from this kind of film.Cast struggle with the script. Even Gary Oldman, great actor that he is, had problems with the President's daughter scene. Oh, oh dear!!!!If you want to see how not to make action movie, look no further than this one. "},{"Title":"Pure propaganda disguised in some passable action","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The villain is of the interesting and sort-of-believable kind. There, I said something good about this total waste of time. Apart from that, it's unabashed, blatant run-of-the-mill US flag-waving junk, sprinkled with total contempt about pretty much every law of nature, whether concerning aircrafts, guns, parachutes, missiles, let alone the insults to the viewer's intelligence and common sense (fight tactics anyone?). I wonder why any TV program director in any country but the US would stoop as low as to show this brainwashing session - but obviously they've lost all self-respect, otherwise I would NEVER have seen this movie.I keep reading these yeah, it's stupid, but so much fun comments. How on earth can you enjoy something that is this inane? I just can't understand how anyone could effectively disable that part of the brain that makes you cringe at stupidity and enjoy what's left. Even if the action was top-notch (which is isn't) or the special effects were gorgeous (which they weren't, not by a long shot), the script would still ruin everything. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Pass The Sick Bag","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Oh dear, oh deary me indeed. The fact that I did not stagger directly from the cinema in a suitably nauseated fashion, before the end credits of this jingoistic, back-slappy nonsense is in itself a testament to human willpower and endurance. Harrison Ford (in an unfortunate blemish on his career), plays the President of the good ol' US of A. His plane (the aforementioned Air Force One), is hijacked by a bunch of no-good villains, stereotyped to the hilt. Thus ensues a battle of wits and so on, between the 'goodies' and the 'baddies', until you-know-who wins through in the end. The sickening antics of Ford's servants, bodyguards, CIA members etc, as they dive heroically in front of bullets meant for the 'Pres', really are cringe-worthy, to say the least. The only noteworthy moment of genuine tension in the entire movie involves the hijackers ultimatum to kill an air hostess unless President Ford surrenders to them. Even then, Ford bravely cowers and skulks in the shadows until the poor girl is shot dead. All sympathy with the lead character is now as dead as the stewardess. The subsequent 'Brave' actions of Ford's servants are notably nauseating, as men hurl themselves in harms way, for 'freedoms sake' in melodramatic fashion. I like a 'Feelgood' movie, just like everyone else, but not one with such a banal, self-congratulatory tone as this. Yawn! "},{"Title":"Good acting","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"       Ford and Oldman have strong performances, and the script is incredible.  Unlike most action movies this film is fresh, and the Russian villains act as believable terrorists.  Too bad Ford is not the US President, I would vote for him any day.  The director, who did Das Boat, directs this film mechanically, and it is a pleasure to watch the mechanics of this film unravel.   "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I find too underrated AIR FORCE ONE on this site. Here I got all in one breathtaking, gripping, nail-biting, edge-of-your-seat entertainment and some good jokes from Harrison Ford. He was very cool and also Gary Oldman delivered perhaps one of his best performances in his career. What I liked the most was the cat and mouse play on the president's air plane. Then also the special effects were not bad and the soundtrack was well synchronized to each scene. Last but not least I thank very much the director Wolfgang Petersen for this great work. Don't miss it. If you liked this one you should watch also UNITED 93. 7,5/10. "},{"Title":"The Best Victory Against Terrorists !","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie shows with total realism the heroism of a band of American people when their plane is high-jacked by terrorists. Harrison Ford plays the US President and he is not going to make things easy for terrorists- that's for sure. In my country we see Harrison Ford as a true American hero. He rocks in every movie.The great storyline and wonderful acting of a great cast full of amazing American actors will make you enjoy this superb production that has everything.Good drama and spontaneous signs of patriotism, together with a powerful script and unexpected ending. This movie shows a lot of good things about how Americans deal successfully against terrorists. They have got what it takes and know how to lead.All in all it is a must see and you will always remember some good quotes along the whole movie. Specially people from Europe and Asia will love this excellent movie which has everything. "}{"Title":"awful","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"19 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Normally, people do their registration and first comment on IMDb to praise some great film they really liked and felt a need to share their impressions. Regrettably, I had to do opposite. This evening I tried to watch this movie, but what the heck... I really don't understand you guys, who give it seven or more stars. I probably didn't get the point of this film?? It is full of clichés, full of flaws and often I felt just embarrassed. President of the US fights professional killers and outsmart them all alone... ha ha. I have to admit that I was not able to watch this till the end.Maybe I wasn't in the mood for that kind of movie. But it is definitely not for someone who wants to use his brain. Sorry. "},{"Title":"Exciting! Exciting! Exciting!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"22 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is an action picture so full of excitement that it had me on the edge of my seat when I first saw it on the big screen back in 1997. This movie is one heck of a ride. Harrison Ford gives one of the best performances of his career as one U.S. President not to mess with. There are also terrific performances turned in by Glenn Close as the Vice President who deals with the terrorist's demands, and Gary Oldman in a scary piece of acting as the lead terrorist. The other actors in the movie do a good job also. In addition to the performances, there are two other big elements that make Air Force One a great movie the special effects and action scenes; and the presence of the plane itself. The action scenes are some of the best I've ever seen. And when we first see the plane from the inside, it looks as if were on a tour of the actual Air Force One itself and it's fascinating.  Suspenseful, thrilling, and just downright exciting, Air Force One is a definite must-see.**** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Very nice action flick!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"23 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    Although it is very unrealistic, AIR FORCE ONE is just pure, 100% fun at the movies. Anyone who takes this serious has a problem. It's not meant to be, it's just supposed to be an entertaining, fun, action packed thrill ride. Action haters beware!     The acting was great-as usual with any Harrison Ford film- the directing was good, and it's like I said before, just good plain fun! So take my advice, see Air Force One, and don't take it too seriously. Just have fun watching it! 3.5/5 stars!JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Brilliant comedy, crappiest action movie","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"53 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The times of the cold war have gone a long time ago, so why chew on this subject in the very end of the 20th century? Some people seem to be unaware of this fact. What surprises us is that among these people are actors that are famous and respected in the whole world, and also that this horrible movie has eaten so much money and it's being sold as an action movie. This movie is the reincarnation of Rocky III (& alike movies from the cold war era) idea, where Rocky (Stallone) was chasing enemy tanks on a horse )Harrison Ford is a good actor, but they forgot to warn him that this movie is a joke, and he took it too seriously - which makes him look ridiculous. (Maybe it would have been a good idea to invite Eddie Murphy instead?). It's understood that some Americans would like to see Indiana Jones (or Swarzenegger, or Stallone) as their president ) Even though Gary Oldman is known for playing bad guys, this time he did a bad job - he has nothing in common with Russians. Sorry Gary, we know you have very good brains and lots of decent offers, guess your agent didn't read the script carefully and when you realized how bad it was, there was no turning back.....We laughed our asses off hearing those presumably Russian characters and trying to understand what they were saying. Actually the only Russian actor who spoke perfect Russian (he said two words!) was killed in the very beginning ) Big mistake ) And during the rest of the movie we were reading the English translation being unable to get through horrible American accents of the Russians.President Petrov is as funny as if the American president was called John Smith )From our Russian point of view, it's a surprise that this movie wasn't prohibited here in Russia. Well, looks like our country has more freedom and sense of humour ) We are happy that we watched this movie on the TV and didn't spend a single ruble on buying or renting it (just lost 2 hours of our time), otherwise we would have been sorry. Actually we don't really regret spending our time, it's been a long time since we laughed that much on a movie that wasn't meant to be a comedy )P.S. No offense meant towards America and Americans, we've read other people's comments and it's obvious that most of them share our point of view. Friendship forever )Oleg & Olga, Moscow, former USSR "},{"Title":"Ford makes for a great president","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One comes packed with some considerable talent; not just the leads, but a wide array of well qualified supporting actors (and Jerry Goldsmith for good measure). That all of this talent is nearly blown on a story riddled with clichés is more than a little disappointing. This is a stock mid-'90s Die Hard clone (I mean, it's almost note-for-note), and it speaks volumes that Gary Oldman is wasted on an ill-defined character.But it's no secret that the movie's selling point is Harrison Ford kicking ass and turning the tables on the bad guys. And why wouldn't it be? Ford's got the believable ruggedness and it's always cool to see a take-charge commander-in-chief on the big screen. If this movie works, it's because of some of the action (the initial siege is pretty gripping) and because of its star. And some good flag-waving patriotism fits right in here, but as a whole, the movie also has a knack for overstaying its welcome. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Jumbo sized laughs","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of the 'greatest' unintended comedies of all time. Holy Jheezhus! Not to be taken seriously. As Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman are my two favs actors, I expected a good movie, if not trite 'action' fare, but man o man, it is ridiculous. 1970's era special effects, terribly obvious green screens, stunts that violate the laws of physics....Should have been sponsored by Velveeta, the cheese factor is off the scale... from caricature bad guys to control panel display messages for the visually impaired, to the corny as hell 'narrative' radio messages, it is just a huge farce from beginning to end... lols-a-plenty for all!. Leslie Neilson would have been proud. "},{"Title":"Air Force One - the toughest plane in the world!!!","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Following a 'zero tolerance' speech, President James Marshall (Harrison Ford) boards Air Force One with his family and security team. However, a group of terrorists led by Ivor Korshunov (Gary Oldman) manage to gain access to Air Force One under the guise of being a group of news reporters. Shortly after the plane takes off the terrorists reveal themselves and threaten to kill one hostage every 30 minutes unless their general is released from prison. The terrorists believe that the President has escaped from the plane in his pod, but Marshall is still on board the plane and is determined to stop the terrorists.My gut instinct was telling me that Air Force One was going to be one of those films that was ridiculous, but very entertaining. To its credit that is exactly what it is so in some ways I feel like I'm being a little bit harsh criticising it. However, in order to properly evaluate the film I'll give you some examples of some of the issues that I had with this film....Air Force One is definitely a film that requires lots of suspension of disbelief. The scene where a missile hits the back of Air Force One and puts a nice little circular hole in it was particularly unrealistic - considering missiles are used to shoot planes down you would have expected there to be more damage to the plane than what is show here. In the real world, I'm almost certain this would have caused the plane to crash. However, not only does this not cause Air Force One to crash, but a hit at the back also fails to damage the rear ramp and tail fin and the plane is also able to maintain the same course as a result of a hit from a missile??? Come on!!!! There is an additional continuity error later in the film where you can see that there is no hole or damage to the rear of the plane after the missile has hit, unless Air Force One is capable of repairing itself mid-flight.I got the impression that director Wolfgang Peterson was hoping that the fast-paced action and the frantic set-pieces would cover up any of these mistakes, but anyone paying any sort of attention will see these examples of incompetency. The CGI crash-landing at the end was beyond embarrassing - I'm pretty sure a plane wouldn't cartwheel after hitting the ocean??? Some of the plot elements themselves are also a little far-fetched; we learn that terrorists have managed to get a load of weapons on board Air Force One and we learn that someone has helped them, but even with someone helping the terrorists I still found it hard to comprehend how all the weaponry was moved on to the plane without anyone noticing?? it's an issue that's addressed in the film, but one that is never really clarified.The political angle employed in Air Force One made it quite an interesting film. I got the impression that the writers were trying to give the film some depth so that it doesn't appear to be just another dumb action film. That's all well and good, but the politics in Air Force One are a tad heavy-handed - how many times do we have to hear 'America does NOT negotiate with terrorists'. Rather than merely making this point, it felt like this point was being bashed round my head.I've given Air Force One a lot of stick, but to its credit it is very entertaining and I must admit 2 hours passed by very quickly. Peterson directs the film with a sense of urgency and the film does have quite a claustrophobic feel to it. I also liked the cat and mouse antics that are employed throughout the film. The writers also paint the President as a Vietnam war hero medal of honour and all so it's very easy to get behind him and when watching it you do hope that he will save the day which inevitably he does. Air Force One is definitely worth watching as it is very entertaining and for the most part it moves along at a fair old lick - although the final 30 minutes are a little drawn out. If you switch your brain off and just go along for the ride then there is plenty to enjoy here. "},{"Title":"Another presidential thriller!","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is another presidential thriller, this time starring Harrison Ford as U.S. President James Marshall, who gives a speech in Moscow about the USA's new Zero-tolerance policy against terrorism. While flying back home on Air Force One, terrorists take over the plane and hold the passengers hostage, and plan to execute a hostage every half hour unless their demands are met. What follows is a heart-pounding game of hide-and-seek as President Marshall uses his military skills to defeat the terrorists and save the hostages, as Ford brilliantly portrays.As with most if not all movies set on a plane, this is a thrilling nonstop ride - with the tense stand-off on the plane to the nail-biting and scrambling observers in the White House. Glenn Close plays Vice President Kathryn Bennett, who gives a commanding performance as she takes charge of the White House and give orders to save the President and the hostages at all costs. Gary Oldman plays head terrorist Ivan Korshunov, who gave a love-to-root-against performance.With the nice acting mixed in with some intense drama and action, this is another great, entertaining action movie.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A very exiting movie...But very ridiculous!","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" OBS spoilers. The movie start of very good, some terrorist hijacks the airplane and takes hostages... Harrison Ford is hiding himself somewhere in the airplanes bottom... and then he kick some of the terrorists asses...,so far the movie is very good and very exiting. BUT in the last 20 minutes to movie just freaks out get VERY ridiculous, and that destroyed the hole movies. Everything was Very great except the last 20 minutes. But overall this is a really good movie that you should watch and the casting is very good also. Well the only bad thing with this movies is the last 20 minutes and the CGI is not very good it looks like some crappy video game especially when it crashes to the water at the end of movie. "},{"Title":"Cheezy cheesefest.","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Planes are not the ideal place to set a movie. There are a finite amount of angles you can use and not many locations, but that hasn't stopped directors yet. Air Force One (the plane) is probably the best choice for a filmmaker to pick just because it's both famous and gigantic. Combine that with greats such as Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman and you would expect to have a kick-ass movie to follow. And maybe you're a little bit right. It's hardly the worst action movie to come out of the 90s, but as its own film it's pretty uncreative and dry. The plot is not that good, and it has some simply embarrassing special effects. But I really liked Oldman as a Russian because his character was so rich. I wish more movies could have such good villains. "}{"Title":"What arrogance to think you could ever understand my intentions.","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One is directed by Wolfgang Petersen and written by Andrew W. Marlowe. It stars Harrison Ford, Gary Oldman, Glenn Close, Dean Stockwell, Xander Berkeley, William H. Macey and Paul Guilfoyle. Music is scored by Jerry Goldsmith and cinematography by Michael Ballhaus.Russian terrorists have taken over Air Force One. The President, an ex-soldier, doesn't take the easy option of the escape pod and sets about saving his wife, daughter and reclaiming the plane.It made over $230 million in profit, it was, by definition, a typical action blockbuster, headed by one of the biggest stars of the day. Its reputation isn't great, those who look down their noses at the action genre, or summer blockbusters in general, gleefully do all they can to insist these are bad films for bad people! My response to that is simple, stay away then! I mean why would you watch this sort of film in the first place if you don't expect a ridiculous premise? It's Harrison Ford playing the Prez of the USA, dialling into Die Hard on a plane and kicking arse for God's sake. And boy is it fun.It's unashamedly American. An impassioned President speech about no negotiation with terrorists leads off the picture, and Jerry Goldsmith layers a big boom military influenced score over proceedings. Come the finale, where the inevitable happens and we throw every punch with Prez Harrison, feel his every emotion as the big decisions have to be made, you feel like standing to your feet and singing Star Spangled Banner And I'm British! Quite an achievement considering it's directed by a German! Ultimately it's a great action film, with a bravado laden story at the core, even if the Cold War has been over for some time.......Ford is ace, always comfortable doing action, and here is no different even at age 55, and he's still one of the best punch throwers of his generation. Around him it's a roll call of professionalism, from the stoic Close as the Vice President on the ground, to Macey and Guilfoyle on the plane, it's all a bit by the numbers melodrama, but it's effective in letting Ford and a hopped up Oldman to take centre stage. Petersen's action sequences are not found wanting, they are real crowd pleasers, and the suspense and tension passages of play are well oiled by the wily director.Flaws? Loads, as there almost always in the big box office actioners, but that doesn't mean you can't enjoy it. I mean the world's safest plane gets hijacked by terrorists, after that I would be disappointed if there wasn't daft stuff to follow! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Making the US President into an Action Hero","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is basically an action movie where somebody has hijacked Airforce One, the plane of the President of the United States of America, and a gung-ho hero, namely the president, must get it back. As a plot line it is quite basic, as an action movie it is good and I enjoyed it, as a piece of literature it is propaganda. This movie seems to give the point that America is strong and that they are the good guys. Capitalism is right and communism is wrong. The antagonists, led by Gary Oldman, are communists and they seek to reestablish Russia as a communist state. These communists are portrayed as blood thirsty terrorists that will not hesitate to bring women and children into the war. The Americans are portrayed as those who wish to stand up for peace and security and that everything they do is right. This movie also seems to be a message to the terrorists to remind them that there is no point in trying to hold American's hostage because they will not give in to their demands, nor will they win if they even try to. This movie also seems to reassure the American people that their government is strong and that if a hostage situation arises then they will be saved. Democracy is also given a boost in this movie. Basically they are also reassuring us that Democracy works and those whom we elect are actually calling the shots. There are numerous times that we are reminded that the President is the boss and that if he says something, even if his advisers do not like it, it will happen anyway. Independence Day is another movie where the President was a major character. Both times the President was an ex-combat veteran and both times he was a top notch fighter. We are left with the impression that the President of the United States is our hero and that with him holding the reins, everything is going to be fine. "},{"Title":"What would happen if Indiana Jones became the President of America.","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After watching Air Force One, I felt as I thought I would feel before watching (if that makes sense). I knew before I put it on that it was a Hollywood action film about the Presidential aircraft and that Harrison Ford played the President, so going from there I guessed what the plot of the film would be and pretty much got it right. I watched expecting to feel an adrenaline rush in the fight scenes, be shocked by lots of guns firing and explosions; whilst still being able to laugh at the occasional moment, I was not disappointed.It begins with an action scene and a big explosion, then the action goes away to give the characters some characterization and the terrorists a motive, then once the plane is hijacked its all guns blazing in what is basically a standard action film and exactly what is expected, except for one thing, being a massive Indiana Jones fan; I found it hard to take Harrison Ford seriously as the President, especially when he was getting in fights that where at times filmed in a very Indiana style, for example when he is falling from the parachute ramp is something straight from one of the Indie movies. The other slight problem I had with this film was its failure to explain little details... like the President is shoved in an escape hatch which is deployed (presumably with the President in), yet somehow he manages to get out and we see him crawling out from the top of a door, which I found very confusing. As an audience member in Hollywood films I find I have to turn off my film brain to watch them, but moments like this turn my film brain back on and this annoys me as I then can't enjoy the film for a while.So another Hollywood action blockbuster which is exactly what's expected ; if you like the sound of watching Indiana Jones as President with more explosions and less one-on-one combat this film is for you. If you want a film that makes you think and will change your life then perhaps not.7/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining Thriller","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I calculated that Harrison Ford must have been in his mid fifties when he made this film, which made some of his action-man heroics displayed here pretty hard to believe. But then, Wolfgang Petersen's film isn't the sort of movie which is built for analysing its reality or logic. It's a reasonably well made thriller, a plane hostage drama with seasoned ingredients one has seen many times before - there's nothing really new here. Gary Oldman comes on board to demonstrate how well we Brits can play ze ruthless killerz with ze foreign accent and Glenn Close pleases in a role which doesn't offer her much to work with. The Get off my plane line is a (literal) killer though, and made me laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Great 90s action flick","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The 1990s were something of a golden age of action flicks, when the directors took the suspenseful pacing techniques and crowd-pleasing Good guys, bad guys motifs perfected in the 70s and 80s and fused those tactics with the robust budgets and maturing computer graphics suddenly available. By the 2000s many directors were forgetting (or not even learning) that special effects alone can't make a movie, and future generations might remember the big-budget action flicks of the 1990s, which remember to work on the script and the more traditional elements of direction in addition to the special effects, more fondly than the many 2000s actions films where the directer dwells almost entirely on getting the effects right.Air Force One is one such 1990s film where the elements of the film without special effects are more than just hackneyed filler in between CGI sequences. Okay, so the film's story is still shallow, it always is, but you don't ask the summer blockbuster to rival George Orwell or anything in terms of depth of political thought. The main thing is that it entertains you and keeps it at least vaguely believable as you munch your popcorn and sip your soda. There's a certain sequence of suspense, heroics, setbacks, triumphs, evil ploys, noble sacrifices... a good action flick is constantly moving from one element to the next, sequencing them in just the right order so as to keep the audience riveted. It's more art than science, but watch a film like Jurassic Park or Apollo 13 to see it being done right. Others, like Terminator 2 or the original three Star Wars, of course, rise above the formula to thrill on their own terms, but there's nothing wrong with a formula action flick, as far as I'm concerned.Air Force One does a better job than most of the 1990s flicks of following the formula. In the post-9/11 world, a lot of Air Force One seems a bit silly and overly Hollywood, but once you get past the introduction the film has aged quite well and is still very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Gripping, for all the wrong reasons","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One is a film that really makes me wonder whether the true intentions of the director are as transparent as they seem.It is strange enough in itself that a director who is himself not an American would produce a piece of thinly disguised US propaganda (who am I kidding? Not disguised at all! Naked, shaven and equipped with big flashing arrows pointing at it!). Not that Germans are immune to the grandiose nature of the nationalism (excuse me, I mean *patriotism* of course) that inspires many American films, and after all, films that portray German nationalism positively are not that well received, so what is a German director who likes trite militaristic show-offs and personality cults revolving around the local alpha male to do? But if you pay attention to the way the characters and the storyline are presented, it makes you wonder who is the real hero here. Sure, the president saves the day. Sure, the terrorists all die in the end and so does the man they were trying to free. I don't know if that's even a spoiler because most people probably guessed the ending from looking at the way the DVD cover was designed.But just compare the way James Marshall, the president, is presented and the way the top terrorist, Ivan Korshunov, is presented. Who would you say is the more intelligent man? Who is willing to take more risks for his country? Who follows his morals - however much you may agree or disagree with them - more consequently? The US government in this film is actually very openly hypocritical. First they order the abduction of the president of Kazakhstan, then they are outraged when the same is done to them in return. First the president is willing to sacrifice all the hostages on board of the plane because ah don negotiate wit terroris', then he is willing to give in to all demands to save his wife and child - when before he did not care at all about other people's wives, children or husbands being killed.And the character of the president himself is so stereotypical it hurts. Every one of his actions is predictable. Same goes for his wife (I don't know what you want! But you won't get it! Hellooo?). It is very difficult to be on their side, especially when on the other side the top terrorist makes statements that in 2009, after 8 years of Bush junior, countless proxy wars, several more US-backed coups and in the middle of another Iraq war, are probably much more popular than in the 90s. Maybe it's just Gary Oldman stealing the show, but maybe it's a subversive director who is way ahead of his time leading the embarrassing clichées of a genre ad absurdum (red white and blue, I count on you - good thing the person who installed the cables was just as much into nationalistic kitsch as you are, Mister President).And then there's the scene where General Radek is released from prison and all the poor, downtrodden prisoners sing the Internationale from their small, dirty cells. It doesn't get much more epic than that. Way more striking than the long-winded rescue mission at the end of the film.So I thoroughly enjoyed watching the film but I watched it the other way round. Watched as it seems to be (and, in all seriousness, probably is) the film is of course, apart from the usual racist and sexist undercurrents that the director probably didn't even notice he catered to, also a piece of embarrassingly shallow kitsch. But at the very least, it gave the bad guys a fair chance to make their point (before getting their asses kicked of course).(P.S. Drinking game Drink one sip of beer - nothing stronger - every time a character says Jesus, Christ or God. After the film, check yourself into a hospital for your alcohol poisoning) "},{"Title":"Badfly dated","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If it weren't for Harrison Ford, I can't imagine anyone wanting to look at this ultra-expensive cheesoid epic about (white) terrorists taking over Air Force One. This DIE HARD in the sky has the added gimmick of the Bruce Willis character being a two-fisted U.S. president. Gary Oldmanb is the laughable and unconvincing head bad guy. Glen Close plays the vice president (!) as if she were appearing on Saturday NIGHT LIVE or MADTV. The dialogue is atrocious throughout. There are certainly some exciting special effects scenes, including a runaway jetliner, but looking at this 1997 movie today should make any serious movie lover wince. "},{"Title":"Do you believe it ?!","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I admit that I've recently watched the movie (After more than 10 years from its release) .. I've heard about it, read its criticism and knew its plot in general at its time long ago but never seen it until recently ... Oh my god !! Apart from politics and direction of the incidents .. apart from the (Good guys) and (Bad guys) theme .. I want just to impress some concerns ..The Mr president which was performed by Harrison Ford is really an action star more than a political president as in the movie .. I want to know how could an old president (May be in the middle 50s of 60s years old) alone defeats a group of professional and highly trained and skilled terrorists??!! It was mentioned in the movie that this supreme president was a soldier and served in Vietnam .. but Vietnam was over in the 70th .. now after more than 30 years .. the skills and styles of fighting and one to one combats are now much different than in the time of Vietnam .. also the awesome president should be a retired soldier as he had entered the political track .. and even if he trains daily (If we suppose that he has enough time in his congested presidential schedule) he'll logically still not able to fight against the terrorists in a face to face combat ..Please take in mind that we are talking about a normal human being and not a super human .. This human was put in a situation in a plane with a bunch of youth merciless terrorists .. a highly skilled plane hijackers .. How can he stand a chance?! ..The gun fire, Uzis and automatic weapons were shot all over the plane's storage area and even in the plane it self .. and the bullets didn't damage any part of the plane's equipments or or at least hit a wall of the plane and pass throw it and destroying the plane which is the logical case .. So could any one tell me what is the super material the plane made of ?! Also, the super president could at last fly the plane even after it was hit by a missile from a Meg fighter !! and how ?! by applying the instructions from the plane Radio !! Is it possible to fly such a complex plane from an audio instructions ??!! I think it was better for this incredible president to play Microsoft Flight simulation !! Do anyone believe that it's possible for any human being to be suddenly pulled by a rope from a very fast plane in about a height (It was mentioned that the height was 15,000 miles) !! without breaking his rips and to be able to breath although of the height and the speed of flooding air with very thin Oxygin !! Please consider this movie of the adventures of the (Amazing president) to be a SCI-FI movie for underage children .. they may believe it !! Sorry Harry !! *** Lo'ay "},{"Title":"Damn good thriller","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" You know that old dramatic principle of suspension of disbelief? You'll have to rely on it for this box-office smash, but you won't be disappointed. Harrison Ford plays a U.S. president who single-handedly employs his rigid anti terrorism policy when a band of Russian thugs hatch a mid-flight takeover of Air Force One. Gary Oldman, who chews the scenery as the lead terrorist, will shoot a hostage at the slightest provocation. Glenn Close plays the sternly pragmatic vice president who negotiates with Oldman from her Washington seat of power. If you can believe that the aircraft's pressurized cabin can sustain hundreds of rounds of machine-gun fire, you'll buy anything in this entertaining potboiler, especially thanks to Ford's stalwart heroics and some nifty special effects. Director Wolfgang Petersen (Das Boot) keeps the action moving so fast you won't be sweating the details. Don't forget your parachute! "},{"Title":"fine action flick & The Scene","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Air Force One' is a movie with one terrific scene, one of the all-time great action scenes I think in film history, and it's so good, it tends to overshadow the rest of the film, which isn't bad either. But before getting to it, a quick overview. Harrison Ford plays President James Marshall, en route back to the U.S. from Russia with his wife and daughter and various government officials. The crux of the movie, that Air Force One could be hijacked, calls for an almost complete suspension of disbelief that few other movies require. The scenario as played out is about as plausible as possible, which is, the head of the president's Secret Service detail is a traitor. If you can get past that without summoning all your critical faculties and walking out of the room, 'Air Force One' is a hell of a lot of fun and a real roller-coaster ride. And there are moments, too, that are painful to watch, such as when a young press secretary is murdered by terrorists. The director, Wolfgang Petersen, knows how to hold on to the audience's collective neck by the jugular, keeping the suspense high and the tension tight. For the most part, it's very convincing, particularly the scenes on board the plane (though the special effects are variable). The parts in the situation room at the White House are, oddly enough, not quite as believable. Glenn Close and Dean Stockwell are the VP and Secretary of Defense, respectively; they and the various generals don't really do much except sweat the crisis out. There are a number of neat little touches throughout; the hostages sending a fax from Air Force One, the dumping of fuel and then the subsequent re-fueling 'scam.' All very clever. But then there is The Scene. When the group of terrorists led by Gary Oldman's character get the go-ahead signal from the corrupt Secret Service agent, what follows is several minutes of superbly-orchestrated mayhem as passengers are shot, the cockpit crew locks themselves in to land the plane, and the rest of the Secret Service detail tries desperately to save the president. It's all frantically and furiously convincing, right down to the last two agents getting the president downstairs and into the ubiquitous 'escape pod' (you know, that's the one-man capsule the White House is forever denying exists), protecting him with their lives until the pod can be ejected and sent parachuting to earth. Movies just don't get any more exciting than this. There is so much going on at once, one doesn't dare blink for fear of missing something. 'Air Force One' would be worth seeing for this scene alone; the good news is the rest of the movie is very entertaining as well. "}{"Title":"Decent 90's action flick.","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One starts in Russia three months after General Ivan Radek (Jürgen Prochnow) the self proclaimed military leader of Kashakstan has been captured by American & Russian forces, the president of the United States James Marshall (Harrison Ford) & the Russian president Petrov (Alan Woolf) speak to the worlds media & affirm their tough stance on terrorism & terrorists. Afterwards Marshall & his people head back to his plane Air Force One & take off. Shortly into the flight General Radek loyalist & terrorist Ivan Korshunov (Gary Oldman) & his men hijack Air Force One & take complete control of it, Marshall makes it down to the baggage compartment & the escape pod which he ejects. Korshunov thinks he has lost the president but Marshall is still on board & is determined to save his family, the other passengers & not give in to Korshunov or his demands...This American German co-production was co-produced & directed by Wolfgang Petersen & while it's not up there in the higher echelons of the big budget action film genre alongside the likes of Die Hard (1988), Terminator 2 Judgment Day (1991) or Speed (1994) for instance it's an entertaining enough big budget action spectacle with which to pass a couple of hours. The script by Andrew W. Marlowe really rams home the all American hero plot with the president of the United States turning into an action star as he single handedly takes on a bunch of terrorists, it's all very patriotic & a bit sentimental as it tries to makes all you Americans out there feel a little bit better about your foreign policies & stance on terrorism. Air Force One repeatedly states that America & it's stance is right & everyone else is wrong. However take away some of the more questionable political aspects of Air Force One & we are left we a action packed thriller with a familiar hijacking plot but plenty of fights, shoot-outs, explosions & action to pass a couple of hours with the minimum of fuss. The character's are your usual cardboard cut-outs & clichés, the dialogue is functional & the pace does drag at times but if you like big budget Hollywood action flicks then I am sure you will like Air Force One.Director Petersen does alright, there are maybe a couple of plot holes like how did known terrorist Korshunov & his men get through the fingerprint security check at the start? There's some stuff about inside help but it's never really explained to any satisfactory degree & then there's setting all those explosives off on the plane which in reality would be a really bad idea. Then there's the secret service traitor, why does he just stand by while the terrorists plans go down the toilet? Why does he not try to rectify them? Why remain anonymous? It just seems weird that he would stand by & let all the plans that he was involved with go to waste, I just don't really get it. The action scenes are well handled but a little repetitive. There's a fair amount of violence & blood splatter. The final plane to plane mid air rescue is apparently an almost shot-for-shot copy of the same type of rescue in Airport 1975 (1974).With a supposed budget of about $85,000,000 Air Force One is well made with big budget Hollywood production values, some of the CGI computer effects look a little dated these days but they still suffice. The lead role was originally written for Kevin Costner but he did The Postman (1997) instead, big mistake Kevin big mistake. The acting is good, Harrison Ford makes for a decent all American hero, British actor Gary Oldman playing a Russian terrorist turned down the bad guy role in Speed 2 Cruise Control (1997) to do this (good choice) & makes for a good villain while the likes of Glenn Close, Dean Stockwell, William H. Macy & Tom Everett having supporting roles.Air Force One (if they ever made a sequel would they call it Air Force One Two?) is a entertaining if ultimately somewhat shallow big budget action film set aboard a plane, to be honest I think Con Air (1997) is still the best hijacked plane action flick out there but this isn't too far behind. "},{"Title":"Mr. President Action Star","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One. A film about a president kicking some serious Russian ass...30,000 feet high up in the air. That pretty much sums up the films premise but lemme elaborate it further The President of the United States has captured a renegade General, he goes on and speaks about it in a summit in Russia. Upon his way home aboard his big metallic cylinder with wings also called the Air Force One, some loyalist Russian insurgents hijacks the plane and demands the General to be freed. Mr. President Action Star jumps into action ala Chuck Norris and starts owning the Russian fools and eventually kills Loyalist Leader with the Kickass Beard. Mr. President Action Star saves the day, prevents Renegade General from being freed and lives another day to rule USA.Mr. President Action Star is portrayed by Harrison Ford. The everyman's protagonist. Be it CIA Operative Jack Ryan, archaeologist/treasure hunter Indiana Jones and the feisty Millennium pilot Han Solo, he is your guy. To be honest, I have never seen Ford in an antagonist role and I wonder how he will play it out, since he's so used at being the everyman's protagonist. In this one though, I can say that he was an effective hero. Putting his family first, not backing down in a fight and never gives up. Great acting.The Loyalist Leader with the Kickass Beard is portrayed by the equally menacing Gary Oldman. He was awesome in Fifth Element and I can say the same thing here. That thick Russian accent did it for him and of course, the evil factor He killed an unarmed lady, shot a bald guy point blank in the head and terrorizes the childhood of a young little girl. So eeeeevil.The director Wolfgang Petersen did an incredibly good job in entertaining the audience for 120 minutes. He approached the audience with his unique style of storytelling with a lot of action and he ended it quite nicely. Now, if only they didn't kill Poor Hapless William H. Macy.7 stars. "},{"Title":"Get off my plane.","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not the best movie of the year, but good enough to get a 7 out of 10. Some music was in the worng places. Sometimes it was too dramatic for the scene. Most of the acting was great, but some people I would have picked different. This movie was just like Die Hard, but he was ON the plane. Overall, this movie was at the point of satisfaction. It was entertaining enough to watch for fun. I would have changed some things in the screenplay, and I would've liked it better. It was just a bit slow. But the action was pretty good, acting pretty good, suspense was OK, and the realisticness strangely was detailed enough. Overall, this movie was good. "},{"Title":"Structural Integrity","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" President James Marhsall of the USA gives an impromptu speech that the recently captured dictator is to serve as an example to all men like him wherever they are in the world and that the United States doesn't negotiate with terrorists. Marhshall's pledge is put to the test when on the way to the USA, Air Force One is hijacked by a group Radek's loyalists.This film is not cliché. Well not fully cliché, as some claim it to be. It is, on the other hand, structural. Predictable to a large degree like clichéd movies, but there is a key difference in that AFO isn't action movie junk. It's a solid action movie. Are there logic lapses? Yes. Is the realism not fully real? Yes. But is the film tense and entertaining? Yes.Many action films with politics in their plot tend to preach uber-patriotic junk - just watch The Delta Force with Chuck Norris. But here, due to well staged action scenes and more importantly characterization, namely of the villain which is where most films of this type fall on their face. Gary Oldman is a very good actor and many roles demonstrate this fact and AFO is no exception. He plays a Hollywood textbook villain, but he plays him like a villain should be played - villainously! He readily kills innocent people to get what he wants yet, interestingly, he isn't just shown as a monster. There is a scene where we find out that he is a father himself. Maybe it is not deep character study, but at least it is 3-D. Same goes with the hero of the movie, President of the United States James Marhsall. I am sure the right wing people in Washington had near orgasmic experiences when they saw a movie about a US president kicking terrorist butts, but there is more to it. Just a little more to make the film not cliché, but structured. There many familiar elements and themes, but they are shown well and it remains largely consistent throughout the film. And that's what this is - an action movie. Not political commentary. There are no painfully staged shots of the hero standing in front of the American flag and no long winded speeches about the greatness of America, though there is a Mother Russia speech, but hey the villain is a fanatic and that speech which reveals the villain's motivations is consistent with his action during the movie.With good tension and build up along with the intriguing premise and setting it has all that a good thriller movie should. --- 8/10Rated R for violence. Ages 13+. "},{"Title":"Theatrically interesting...but in reality????","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film some time ago, and the idea of the President's plane being taken over is a nice plot, but the reality of it is a little bizarre, even before the incidents of 9-1-1.On a diplomatic trip overseas, President Ford is informed a terrorist leader has been taken forcibly from the leader's home in the dead of night from the US Navy Seals. Upon hearing this, he goes to great efforts (against his Cabinet's wishes) to make known the US's stand on terrorism and his plane is taken hostage en route home in an effort to release the terrorist.A good sub-plot takes place back on US soil, where Dean Stockwell's character attempts to make a power play by taking advantage of the situation (he should have been thrown in jail next to the captured terrorist.This film reminds me of the movie catch phrase from about twenty years ago where the end of the trailer kept telling whoever was watching it to keep telling themselves, It's only a movie! It's only a movie! I feel anyone wanting to let foreigners ride aboard Air Force One should be forced to watch this film, as I feel that would be the only other good it would serve.Cinematic value is good...9 out of 10 stars. But the reality of it brings it down a bit (8). "},{"Title":"typical action movie elevated by great supporting performances","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" this is a typical action movie.obviously it has lots of action,but there isn't much originality to the story.we've seen this movie before.the only difference is that some details are different and the title isn't the same.otherwise,there's no difference.OK,the actors are different.Harrison Ford plays the American president who becomes the reluctant action hero.he's OK,i suppose,but he seems to play every character he portrays in the same manner.they all sound and look alike to me.i liked Wendy Crewson as the president's wife.i thought she was credible in the part.i was also impressed with Glenn Close in her role as the vice president.but it's Gary Oldman,as the villain, who steals the show,in my mind.when you add everything up,the movie is entertaining,although less so than others of the genre.if it weren't for Wendy Crewson,Glenn Close and especially Gary Oldman,i would give this film a lower rating.as it is,i give Air Force One a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Awful Movie, Would have given 0 if there was a chance","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Total crap...Shame on Harrison Ford.....for choosing such a script....I gave this a 1 because IMDb wouldn't let me give it a zero.I also must admit that I watched only 30 minutes of this piece of garbage. The hijacking of the President's aircraft by terrorists posing as Russian media was difficult to believe. That six people would be able to carry off such a feat, given the number of secret service agents that travel with the president, is highly unlikely. That hundreds of rounds from automatic weapons and large-caliber handguns could be fired on board an aircraft without affecting any critical systems is debatable. That terrorists could blow the cockpit door open, using some sort of plastic explosive, detonating it by firing a pistol at it (hitting it on the first shot, no less!), yet not injure the pilots or cause any damage to the flight deck is astonishing. When they managed to take control of the plane during landing, perform several off-road maneuvers with the plane that would make a Jeep proud, then get a Boeing 747 airborne again without benefit of a runway, that's when I went Popeye and decided I'd had all I could stand and I could stand no more.I can suspend my disbelief as well as the next guy, but this was just asking too much.I won't even go into the cheesy script and listless acting. Shameful. "},{"Title":"Air Force One A Great Ride Of An Action Thriller","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In this action thriller,Air Force One,Harrison Ford plays James Marshall, a onetime combat hero in the Vietnam War who is now President of the United States. While visiting the former Soviet Union, Marshall gives a speech in which he supports a get-tough attitude against both terrorists and a right-wing general and war criminal from Kazakhstan imprisoned in Moscow, earning him few friends in the Eastern Bloc. While flying back to the United States aboard Air Force One, Marshall and his staff discover that one of the journalists returning with them is actually Ivan Korshunov, a Kazakhstani terrorist, who hijacks the plane with three associates and holds the president hostage -- with his wife and daughter on board. Marshall must use his strength and intelligence to keep the terrorists at bay and devise a plan to allow his family to escape to safety, while on the ground the vice-president, the secretary of defense, and the attorney general grapple over what to do and how much control to take in this crisis. Air Force One was characterized by a slam-bang action sequences and a story that is full of plot twists fly fast and furious in this nail- biter that provides great thrill and excitement as well as entertainment to the viewer. Aside from that,it also had brilliant performances from its lead star Harrison Ford,together with his supporting cast,Gary Oldman, and Glenn Close, together with Xander Berkeley, William H. Macy, Dean Stockwell and Paul Guilfoyle.This action thriller,written by Andrew W. Marlowe and directed by Wolfgang Petersen,is surely to provide great pleasure and satisfaction to a viewer who loves action thrillers. "},{"Title":"Hurts to watch","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ouch, this one was really a pain to watch to the end. Hadn't I browsed the internet in parallel, I would've died of severe brain convulsions. Okay, I might not be the perfect audience for action movies like AF1, because I believe that even action movies should still follow some rudimentary logic at least some of the time. Just because you're making an action movie doesn't mean you are obliged to throwing all logic and sense for reality overboard. Wolfgang Petersen certainly doesn't share that opinion. Add some horrible visual effects (King Kong in the 30s looked more realistic - was CGI really that primitive in 1997??) and several scenes that just don't lead to anything, and you get an action movie that scrapes at the bottom of its genre. "},{"Title":"It's A Bit Over The Top But It Has Lots Of Good Action","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" To state the obvious right off the top, I find it very hard to accept the basic premise of this movie that Air Force One could be hijacked. However, it's an action movie, and how many of those are really believable anyway? So one has to judge this for its ability to excite and to entertain and every now and then to get your heart pumping. It manages to do all three of those things generally pretty well.Harrison Ford was an obvious choice to play the lead in this. As James Marshall, he's the President of the United States, who recently committed the US to ousting a brutal dictator in Kazakhstan and having him thrown into prison, whose followers commit themselves to getting him released by taking the President hostage. Ford portrays the action parts of this movie pretty well; somehow, when he was functioning as President away from the action scenes, I found him less convincing. Back in Washington there's uncertainty about whether the Vice President or the Secretary of Defense are in command of US troops given the president's incapacity - shades perhaps of Bush-Haig after the Reagan shooting of 1981. Glenn Close put on a solid performance as the Vice President.There's good excitement all the way through this. The setting of the plane is used to good effect. Air Force One being - well - Air Force One, it's not your typical plane. It has lots of office space and various other areas where one can hide, making the cat and mouse game the president plays with the hijackers pretty suspenseful. There was a very effective portrayal of the emotional turmoil the other hostages must have felt after the president was finally captured and was having the tar beaten out of him as they watched in growing discomfort. It perhaps went a bit too over the top at the end, with the rescue mission trying to get the president and others off the plane before it crashed. Perhaps the movie should have ended with the defeat of the hijackers and the movie shortened by 15 minutes or so. Still, it's pretty entertaining, and a wild high altitude ride. "}{"Title":"If your right about this I'll appoint you Postmaster General","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILER ALERT*** Harrison Ford as US Prsident James Marshall lays it all on the line in the movie Air Force One. His political career his family and his very life in Mrashall's hard-rock determination never to negotiate with or give into terrorists demands.After having taken renegade Kazakhstan dictator Gen. Ivor Radek, Jurgun Prochnow, into custody in a joint US/Russian commando operation his fanatical followers lead by Ivan Kroshunov, Gary Oldman, hijack the United States' presidential aircraft Air Force One. Ivan's plans is to capture Pres. Marshall and hold him, and his staff and family on board, hostage in return for his beloved and respected leader Gen. Radek. As things turn out Pres. Marshall is nowhere to be found on board! This has Ivan and his boys search the plane in order to find the elusive US President Marshall who, unknown to Ivan & Co, has his own plans for the hijackers. A one man guerrilla war where the Geneva Accords, to the treatment of prisoners of war, aren't strictly enforced!Non-stop and wall to wall action on board Air Force One with the no BS Pres. Mrashall doing the job that his own Army Navy Marine and Airforce are unable to do and doing it with pizazz! Picking off Ivan's men one by one Pres. Marshall turns a simple hijacking on Ivan & Co. part into a life and death struggle for them. As we learned earlier in the film Ivan wasn't alone in taking over Air Force One. He had help from Pres. Mrashall's top secret service agent Gibbs, Xander Berleley. Gibbs obviously suffering from some kind mental aberration, possibly a brain tumor, did this not that he was in favor of what the terrorists were doing! Gibbs somehow felt that by having his boss Pres. Marshall murdered it would guarantee him lifetime job security in the US Government Secret Sevices!***SPOILERS*** Just when things started to turn in both the USA and Pres.Marshall favor the crazed Agent Gibbs showed his true colors or intentions which lead, with him battling it out with Pres. Marshall, to the most exciting and death defying scene in the entire film that up until then seemed to have just about ran out of them!Harrison Ford did his usual heroics in the movie as the fearless President James Marshall but it was Gray Oldman as the murderous Ivan Korshubov who in many cases even outdid him. Ivan was far more determined in his efforts in saving his hero Gen. Radek then Pres. Mrashall was in saving those on board Air Force One. In that Ivan was more then willing to get himself and those terrorists with him killed for what he believed in which Pres. Marshall wasn't! In his trying to save his staff and wife and daughter by even going so far as negotiating with the terrorists on board the plane! As for the hard as a rock Gen. Radek he, or actor Jurgen Prochnow, played his part of the strong and silent type to the absolute tee. I can't remember one scene in the film that Gen. Radek was in where he as much as uttered one single word! "},{"Title":"Ipecac","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" To paraphrase an often-used line by Judith Crist, lovers of rotten movies will merrily wallow in Air Force One, a bloated and bloody mess that will make you--if you have any taste at all--thank your lucky stars that Hollywood doesn't pick our leaders.From the wooden performances to the overblown special effects, from the dreary, never-ending length of the movie to the fact that both Harrison Ford and Glenn Close were criminally negligent and derelict in their duties, this is a dreadful piece of garbage. My contempt for this type of movie, perfected by Jerry Bruckheimer, and attempted here by Wolfgang Petersen (who apparently decided that after Das Boot, he didn't need to do anything good again) is enormous.The next time I have stomach flu, and I want to barf to feel better, I'll have my wife run out to rent a copy of this trash. Watch a few moments--spew! Just like syrup of Ipecac. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, If a Tad Implausible, Die-Hard-On-a-Plane Film","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I literally just finished watching this movie on DVD, and I have to say, it was everything it should have been. Seeing as how the movie involved the President of the United States, I'm almost certain that the IMDb boards are filled with heated political discussions (likely including Europeans chastising Americans for being so stupid). While those arguments may have a place on the Internet, that place is not here. Because this is not a political film - all it is is an entertaining Die Hard knockoff starring Harrison Ford. If you go in thinking about it that way, you'll enjoy this movie a lot.While the premise (and some other parts of the film) range from a bit out-of-the-ordinary to out-and-out implausible, the action sequences and the taut pacing make up for these issues by making the movie a lot of fun to watch, which is what every action movie should strive for. Gary Oldman is damn good as the main antagonist, and I must say that I found his grievances against the United States (and admiration for the despotic general that he wants freed) to be quite believable.On a lighter note, there should be more films where we get to see the President of the United States shooting at people. That would be awesome. Escape from New York has nothing on this movie in the Presidents carrying guns department. (Plus, I'd like Harrison Ford to be president more than I would Donald Pleasance, if for no other reason than the fact that Donald Pleasance is dead).(In case you're too stupid to tell, that last paragraph was a joke).7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers you will ever see","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" President James Marshall (Ford) is in danger when a group of Russian terrorists take control of Air Force One.Wolfgang Peterson (In the line of fire) delivers a fast and tense action thriller in which Harrison Ford (Star Wars) gives a good performance as President Marshall alongside a terrific act by Gary Oldman (Dracula) as the lead terrorist Ivan Korshunov.Ford and Oldman give good performances but the star of the show is Peterson whose action style of direction maintains the tension and delivers excitement and claustrophobia on all the right levels, as does the writing by Andrew Marlowe.The film gets off to the right start with a group of agents parachuting into General Radek's mansion and kidnapping him, laying down the tone for the plot to take full swing and after an inspirational speech by the President, the real action and intensity begin.Though perhaps predictable as to what will happen on the plane, there is still an intensity so high and exciting that you can't tear your eyes away as the stakes rise and the drama reaches boiling point.The narrative flows consistently and creates its own realism and conforms well to the action thriller genre. What is impressive is that the action and intensity never let up and the stakes just keep getting higher and higher until the ultimate climax, and even then it keeps going. Thankfully hardly any clichés get in the way to spoil it.Peterson's direction helps bring the action to life, but also the characters, and none more so than Oldman's Korshunov, who is a true joy to watch. Like Alan Rickman in Die Hard, Oldman masters the foreign accent and creates that essence of control and evil, matched well by Ford who delivers another exciting action character.Without these characters, the plot would not have been as exciting or intriguing, and is a credit to Ford and Oldman. Glenn Close (Dangerous Liaisons) also delivers a good character as the Vice President.If you find the thriller genre hard to digest in terms of realism, you can take comfort in the acting and the characters but ultimately, this is a top notch exciting thriller. "},{"Title":"A brilliant action flick with plenty of passion from the lead actors making it a stone cold must see classic!!","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing Air Force One for the first time in the theater. It was packed, so packed that I had to sit on the floor in the front of the theater and when Ford belts out his famous GET OFF MY PLANE the audience stood and applauded and cheered!! Kinda lame I think BUT it's pretty amazing when a film can reach an audience like that and literally make them jump out of their feet and although Air Force One has a lot going for it making it hands down one of my favorite action films the thing that gets through to the audience and to me is the amazing Harrison Ford. Still the entire film builds off of him and does so remarkably well. Director Wolfgang Petersen has had some definite hits and misses in his career but he knows how to tell a story with action and he proves it with this classic action packed thriller. Nearly the entire film takes place aboard Air Force One but you never feel like it's not enough scenery or action. It's actually non stop and the characters are so well developed in such a short time and the cast is so incredible both on their own merits and together that you are riveted to your seat the entire time. Still I think a huge chunk of the film like so many of his films rest entirely on the talent of Mr. Ford.Admittedly I am an enormous Harrison Ford fan as is most of the world considering he is one of, if not the, top money making actor in Hollywood. Ford plays beloved, too good to be true, strong willed (and therefore clearly democratic) President James Marshall (small joke.) Ford is just mind blowingly pure as the President although he makes some very controversial decisions in the course of the film (the cusp of them being letting a woman die to save and protect everyone else.) Still he is the kind of man you'd want in office but never get. On top of that he is strong and determined and a kick ass fighter. No one else could have played this role as well or as brilliantly. Equally as impressive is his nemesis in the film played by Gary Oldman. Oldman plays a brilliant madman determined to have his countries former leader released from Russian captivity. The two of them against each other is just mind blowingly perfect. Ford's character is one of the best action heroes in Hollywood history and Oldman's villain is right up there with him. Glenn Close gives a terrific performance as the Vice President who stands firmly beside the President at every turn. The rest of the cast don't get a lot of screen time but they are so important because the supporting cast is beyond impressive including Wendy Crewson and Liesel Matthews as the first lady and their daughter. William H. Macy (amazing as always), Dean Stockwell (also very impressive role for a small one), and Xander Berkeley as the Secret Service agent secretly turned rogue.From the moment the film begins to the moment the plane leaves the ground the action is non stop. The characters are all ones you come to care about and become involved in completely making the action all the more riveting and edge of your seat. Ford and Oldman give such passion to their performances as they almost always do and it draws you right in. If you love action films, if you love nail biters and thrillers and you haven't seen Air Force One you don't even know what the genre is!! I think one of the things that makes this so incredible is because this is the kind of President and the kind of staff and devotion and Government we could only dream of and the kind of respect for a President we haven't seen since the days of Roosevelt and Kennedy. Regardless this is one movie that anybody can enjoy for every reason imaginable and is a must have in your collection and a must see for everyone!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"How Not To Make An Action Film","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This has got to be one of the worst action type films made....All the women's roles were pathetic and demeaning....It's pretty bad when Glenn Close can't make it believable.... Ugh, ugh, ugh......Harrison Ford looked like he was sleep walking through the film, and poor Gary Oldman had some of the most ridiculous lines...And what a copycat this screenwriter is (or was it the director?) when you know that the Oldman character is gonna blow off the national security adviser when he speaks up....That is straight out of Executive Decision (Kurt Russell and Halle Berry)...Just substitute the senator for the NSA guy.....The good points were few and far between.....some of the action was fast paced and worked; seeing an actual copy Airforce One was also pretty cool.... "},{"Title":"One-dimensional masochism","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The U.S. Presidential plane is hijacked by despicable Russians, who attempt to terrorize granite-jawed leader Harrison Ford along with his family and government aides; they want the Pres to demand the release of a Russian neo-nationalist, but he has other ideas and plots to turn the tables. Well-made but overly-familiar thriller is rather like Die Hard in the sky, though Ford is certainly adept and convincing as the President; Glenn Close commanding as the Vice President; Gary Oldman scary but typecast (and one-dimensional) as the terrorist leader--what kind of movie would this have been if Oldman and Ford had switched roles? Excellent special effects and a rousing finale compensate for a general air of gloom and a depressingly high mortality rate. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Brilliant, disengage brain and enjoy.","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air force one is by no means the best written, the best acted or most original film I have ever seen. At times it's corny to the point of embarrassment, and it's soaked in the type of stars and stripes patriotism us Brits love to hate.But despite these flaws, this is one of my favourite films. Why, because it's so exciting, it doesn't require a Harvard diploma to enjoy and it's the classic 'good vs evil' that we all enjoy. Gary Oldmans terrorist ticks all the cliché boxes, and yet manages to be one of the most effective bad guys ever. He's such an evil character, and the series of brutal, cold-blooded executions means that every time I watch the film I really, really hate this guy, and when he gets his inevitable comeuppance, it's a great moment. There have been many brilliant pieces of dialogue in cinematic history, but few can make 'Get off my plane' for 'back of the net' elation. Of course it's cheesy, but that's the fun of it. The story bounces along at a good pace, with plenty of action and tense moments to keep the audience interested. The storyline is basic but functional, the struggle between the President and the Terrorists on board linked with Radek's release gives a really dramatic climax to the film.This film is not perfect, but it's an uncomplicated and exciting picture which asks nothing of it's audience. Just sit back and the nonsense wash over you and enjoy this film for what it is, a great story with a fantastic 'feel good factor' at the finale. Call me a Phillistine, but that's entertainment. "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Action! Terrific!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great! Harrison Ford delivers a great performance as well as Gary Oldman. You really love to hate Oldman in this movie, which is desirable for every actor playing the bad guy. This movie keeps you on the edge of your seat the whole time. It's a great action movie, as well as a great story. It's more than just action, which most films of this type lack. If only we had Fords character as our President! Make sure to see it! "},{"Title":"Good-to-great action film","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   I liked this movie. I would give it ****1/2 out of *****. It's like Die Hard. It's about terrorists who take over  Air Force One. The president is the hero, unlike Die Hard  Which it is a cop and terrorists take over a building. Watch  it and enjoy yourself. "}{"Title":"terrible, jingoistic nonsense","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** How the director of perhaps the greatest film ever made (Das Boot) could bring himself down to this level is beyond me.As many before me have commented, the cliches are particularly gruesome. You have a US President who basically takes on an entire squad of hardened and professional terrorists!! I mean what are the chances of an all male group of RUSSIAN JOURNALISTS making it on to 'the most important plane in the world' in the first place. And the President is himself betrayed by a bodyguard!! Ludicrous. Those secret service agents would be the most fanatically loyal, die hard spooks you could ever imagine!!Petersen must have done it for the exposure, the money or both. It's the usual storyline that makes non-Americans cringe The 1 'cowboy' takes on ALL the bad, dirty 'injuns' and wins. As always, he just happens to be a former Vietnam helicopter pilot. Oh, and he's also got a loving wife and daughter that adore him. Bill Clinton must have laughed even more than me when he saw this movie. The acting overall is so cliched and melodramatic (someone mentioned Glenn Close) it was as if they were ORDERED to behave like jingoistic morons by the producers. Good to see that a lot of American viewers also found it extremely distasteful and insulting.To cap it all off, (spoiler ahead)....when AF1 crashes into the sea at the end, the special effects almost made me laugh out loud. It looked like something from early 80s science fiction TV!!Also, the wonderful U-boat captain played by Jurgen Prochnow in 'Das Boot' is relegated to a minor role playing an ultra nationalist General. What a shame. Instead the major roles are taken by wooden actors who should know better, namely Close and Ford. I thought the best performance was given by Oldman, who's venom as the zealous terrorist is credible. The reviewer before me pointed out the major flaws and I'd agree with him/her, especially the part when the staff parachute blindly into the sky over E.Europe. The secretary has the most idiotic smile on her face as she drifts down towards probable death/capture/torture/drowning/etc. This film is practically another Delta Force or Rambo with better special effects and marginally better acting but overall it is still a pitiful effort. Passenger 57 and Die Hard 2 are much better 'aircraft related action movies'. "},{"Title":"Good Plot Idea","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Directed By the talented Wolfgang Peterson who Directed the Perfect Storm Air Force One is a fun ride with good acting nice special effects and solid action. The idea of the President not being a totally helpless character is a good one. If you are a fan of other Peterson films you should see it.  "},{"Title":"Liberal Hollywood Strikes Again","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I turned this movie off after the first five minutes. I can't stand the liberal elites in Hollywood who blast viewers with their political talking points within the first few minutes of what is suppose to be a thrilling action film. To further describe my outrage, the filmmakers have Harrison Ford's president character denounce the US for its failure to intervene in countries undergoing humanitarian crises. It's as if the benevolent elites in Hollywood want Americans who don't want to police the world and solve every single domestic problem facing less fortunate and successful countries to feel guilty about wanting the US to mind its own business and demand that American political authorities work for the interest of those who pay the damn bills in the first place. The filmmakers could've at least waited until the end of the film to sermonize viewers with their liberal propaganda. "},{"Title":"Die Hard goes airborne!","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Terrorists, hostages, guns&#x85;all the elements needed for an entertaining action movie. In the case of Air Force One however, the situation moves to the Air Force One aircraft, immediately presenting a unique setting and upping the stakes tremendously. The story's a little similar to Die Hard, in the sense that both movies feature one hero picking off bad guys with a number of clever tactics. But while Die Hard showed things going from bad to worse, Air Force One seems comprised of a number of minor victories that build up to a brilliant climax. The film overall feels like a victory as we watch the President retaking his own airplane; this in itself could be a hint at the American spirit of rebelling against tyranny.The movie is thoroughly entertaining as, like any good action movie, it presents one sequence of thrilling events after another, with each action causing a significant reaction. Combined with a number of shoot-outs and incredible dog-fighting scenes, the film is very tense and exciting all at once.The story is a simple one, almost no different than Die Hard or any similar action movie, but it is well-told with fairly well-developed characters. The political drama and the portrayal of the Air Force One plane seems realistic enough.Photography is very good and solid, the production value is good, the special effects are awesome and still great to look at. Harrison Ford makes for an awesome President, and Gary Oldman puts on a brilliant performance as the primary antagonist. The supporting cast is quite brilliant as well. Writing seems good throughout.Altogether, Air Force One remains one of my top favorite action films. Recommended to everybody.4.5/5 (entertainment 5/5, story 4/5, film 4/5) "},{"Title":"Who thought this movie up?","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Who decided to write this plot? Its boring! Although I am not expert, wouldn't the President's plane just have a bit more security? I mean, this is the president where talking about. Everything in this movie just seems so pat and set, there's always going to be an out, and surprise! Guess who's going to do it! Yes! Harrison Ford! Our president is going to kick (...)! Doesn't that bother anyone? This movie screams Hollywood and follows it so faithfully its scary. In real life, for that is what we are trying to portray, would the president jump out of a falling plane, try to save his rogue commander or any of the other numerous things that never stop happening? Maybe...maybe not. Obviously on Air Force One he's a superman, because he is able to do all these things. Air Force One needs to come down out of the clouds and have some reality shot into it. Other than that, this movie is a rather decent action thriller. Just for action mind you. That, and fans of Harrison Ford should appreciate his superhuman role. I didn't, but there's no saying you won't. "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time !!!","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I decided to write it as soon as I saw that movie on TV to warn you !!! It is one of the worst movies I have ever seen!! Absolutely poor dialogues with no sense whatsoever (in some moments), poor special effects and a plot. A story about that fantastic American president who can shoot, fight, fly a plane and who knows what else. It's a COMPLETE waste of time. I haven't heard such stupid dialogues for a long time. I seriously don't know how they got so many well known actors in that film. Don't watch it. You will waste your precious time on something that is absolutely not worth it. I wouldn't even give it that one star but there's no option of giving 0 !!!! How unfortunate. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, shallow patriotic action","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Unless you like unrealistic action movies where brain needs to be turned off - don't even bother watching this one. Bullets are flying around, planes are exploding, people are fighting in the opened cargo area on 30,000 feet...The flag is waving in every scene. Every. Even if it is not visible, it is there somewhere - in a dialog, in an American missile destroying a MIG, in the way the president orders everyone else to leave the doomed plane before himself... people are jumping to take the bullet for the president, even pilots placing their fighters to take the missile for the AF1 (oh, gosh, that was something)! It is extremely unrealistic, but hey - it's an action movie. That's the only reason I gave it two instead of one star - I guess it has all the elements an action movie is expected to have.So to summarize - this movie has a clear distinction between the good and the bad guys, ridiculous plot, cheesy music, the kind of patriotism and propaganda that makes you laugh... It is so shallow that it makes your brain hurt. "},{"Title":"Vote Harrison Ford for President!","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I didn't see this one till Spring 2006. But after seeing it, I consider it a classic action pack film.It's been 3 weeks since the U.S. troops captured a communist general of the former Soviet Union. President Jim Marshall of the U.S. went to visit Moscow Russia for his speech on his view of terrorism and the prevention of another Cold War. After an applause from the Russians, the President was guided to his private air craft, Air Force One.The plane itself is one of a kind for the Nation's greatest leader. With highly advance additions and access to D.C. can make it an alternate control on the nation.Jim Marshall is looking forward to getting back to Washington along with his Family who came with him on the trip. After take off, all seem peaceful on the plane. Until a group of terrorists hijacked the plane. With an outbreak of terror and panic. The hijackers hold all the passengers as hostages and took control of the aircraft as they demand that the president will give the Russian government permission to free their general. But the president isn't going to give up with out a fight.It's action, thrilling, and breathe taking all in one plane. I liked the way this film was made, designed, and believable. Harrison Ford gave a great performance as the President. Having him as the Nation's leader would be awesome, especially when he has a better way of dealing terrorists than George W. Bush does. Gary Oldman was also great as the lead of the terrorists, he should get a round of applause for portraying as an S.O.B.The special effects are super for only being 9 years old. And it's a highly recommended movie for all the die-hard Ford fans. "},{"Title":"Tense action thriller features a magnetic and heroic President","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While not particularly believable, this is certainly an entertaining and suspenseful action thriller. The improbable tale revolves around the fictional U.S. President Marshall who is returning via Air Force One to the States after giving a speech in Moscow. After Russian hijackers seize the plane, they threaten to execute one hostage every half hour until their demands are met for release of a Russian terrorist, General Raddack. They believe the President himself has left the plane on an escape pod. However, he has stayed behind, hiding and employing various tactics to rescue his wife and daughter who are still aboard. A former soldier himself and Medal of Honour winner from the Vietnam War, he proves himself an adversary to be reckoned with.For me, this movie is all about two factors. First its setting aboard the Presidential jet Air Force One naturally engrosses the viewer. Everyone is captivated by the details of the Presidential airplane and the horrific prospect of a hijacking.Second, the magnetic Harrison Ford is perfect in the role of President Marshall, a compelling figure who is outraged at the seizure of his plane. This devoted family man is faced with the wrenching choice of giving in to terrorist demands or endangering the lives of his wife and daughter. He refuses to compromise but proves himself willing to undergo any risks involved in order to protect his family. Other stars include Gary Odman as the head Russian terrorist and Glenn Close as the Vice President.This exciting movie features suitably dramatic and patriotic musical scoring by the wonderfully talented late Jerry Goldsmith. My only complaints are the considerable violence as well as some profanity. However, it certainly has non stop action and tense drama to keep you on the edge of your seat. There are truly evil villains but also a compelling hero who's dedicated to both his country and his family. Overall this movie is simply a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"It's fun and isn't that kind of the point?","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" OK, if you're looking for something like The Godfather or Citizen Kane you've probably come to the wrong place. But you knew that going in. Air Force One is what it is, a typical big-budget Hollywood action thriller where the plot (such as it is) gets put on the back burner while a bunch of people get shot and a lot of things get blown up. This is not meant to be thought-provoking serious cinema. It's meant to be fun and in that it succeeds.As the movie begins President James Marshall, played by Harrison Ford, is flying home from Russia where he has just given a speech outlining America's policy of not negotiating with terrorists. And, oh sweet irony, his plane is immediately hijacked by terrorists. The hijackers, whose leader is played by the wonderfully sinister Gary Oldman, are Russians angling for the release of a political prisoner. So now President Marshall's no-negotiations policy will be put to the test. Does he stand firm or give in to the terrorists' demands to save himself and his family? Oh yes, his family. Because we simply must have a terrified wife and child on board to ratchet up the drama, no? Anyhow while other politicians (including Vice President...Glenn Close? Hey look, a female Vice President, aren't we progressive say the filmmakers) consider giving in to the terrorists' demands, President Marshall takes matters into his own hands. While he might be getting a little old for this, Ford is a reliable action hero and he does what he does best. And Oldman is a worthy foil for him although his over the top accent gets a little tiresome. Putting the accent aside, Oldman does an otherwise perfect job of playing the villain. Such a role could be quite clichéd but he pulls it off brilliantly. But it's really Ford's movie and he is up to the task. Air Force One is not meant to be taken all that seriously. Just sit back, enjoy the action, appreciate the fine performances of the two leads and this one will be worth your while. "}{"Title":"Good enough","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that is nothing original or anything, but its easy enough to sit through.  Harrison Ford is still in top form here as the butt-kicking president.  Some great action sequences are the key element to this film's success which makes up for the rather dumb script and unoriginal story.  I think this is the best action thriller Ford has had since Frantic(1988).  Nice supporting performance by Glenn Close as the vice president as well.  Overall not a bad night at the movies.  *** out of *****.   "},{"Title":"Did the budget run out?","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having read through a few comments on this movie, I'm amazed that there are no comments on the final scene. Without wishing to spoil the film for anyone who has not seen it yet, it involves possibly the worst CGI I have ever seen. The movie preceding it was a bland piece of candyfloss, but that finale really was a sit up in disbelief moment. My first thought was that it was an outtake from the Resident Evil on the Playstation! "},{"Title":"Just watch the movie","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a very entertaining movie.  For the begining to the end.  The acting was superb.  Also, they had real life russian actors.  Not some cheesey actors, trying to be russian.  This is one of the best movies for gary oldman, glenn close, and harrison ford.  Bar none.  Whoever says people in action movies can't act, need to watch this movie.  This movie is electrifying. "},{"Title":"Good for the American spirit","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While I have watched this video film for not countable times, I have again today.  It was not only a dramatic show in the air or of Harrison Ford himself.  I think it best illustrates the braveness of the mankind, and what a great leader of a great nation should be.And I also agree with what the President (played by Ford) has said in the movie.  Terrorism has always been nightmare to the world peace.  We all know that there might be some mistreatment from the core powers to the periphery countries, but terror should never been a way to counter the mistreatment.  We have to stand straight and say no to those who might be interested to stir terrorist behavior. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest junk movies ever made!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Of course AF1 has more plot holes than a Jerry Bruckheimer film, but watching this movie back in 1997 was one of the biggest cinema joys in recent years!  AF1 is a MUST for all Ford fans, as well as fans of action.  Wolf Petersen is one of my favorite directors, he makes this movie 'take off' and really 'fly' with excitement.  I also should say, Gary Oldman is probably the greatest working film actor today who has never been nominated for an Oscar, (as far as I know).  I'm not saying AF1 is 'Oscar material' but I'd rather watch this than something like The Last Emperor.  AF1 may go down in my book as Harrison Ford's last great action role, so what if it's unbelievable?  Final rating 8/10 Almost a classic.  It has it's flaws but is an otherwise very memorable film.  "},{"Title":"Its a movie.","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One was the movie in which two of my favourite actors, Gary Oldman (The Contender) and Harrison Ford (Star Wars), got to duke it out.Many people seem to bash this movie as it is 'too unrealistic' or 'not deep enough'. Lighten up, this is supposed to be a light hearted action thriller, not another Shawshank Redemption. My only problem is with Glen Close, she sucks. For its entertainment value and the fact it had Gary Oldman in it I would give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Really bad, beware","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ok, there is no excuses for this film. The director made Das Boot which is brilliant. Harrison Ford has been in film classics like Star wars and Indiana Jones, and add a lot of good actors to that. And despite this the film is so bad that it's offensive to the viewer. The effects are not good and look like an average flight simulation game, the script is really stupid and it even have evil commie Russians lol, I hoped that we should get rid of them with the collapse of the Soviet Union. This film does not even deserve a 1/10. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly done action","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's easy to understand why Airforce One was such a big hit. The President saves the country. America has an honorable man as their leader and he's saving them from those no good filthy Reds again. Audiences walked out with pride in their hearts (fuelled by Jerry Goldsmith's rousing score) and they forgot about the LewinskyGate scandal that was going down with the REAL President.But the film is very good in it's own right too. Wolfgang Peterson creates a heavy feeling of tension, Ford a likable hero and Oldman a hissable villain who was actually quite scary. The film is also very well put together technically. The editing and sound is top-notch.But there are flaws. And one BIG flaw. Some of the dialogue really sucks. And Wendy Crewson is VERY bad as the First Lady. The only reason her character is even in it is because every President has a First Lady. Her role is totally useless. I predicted her EVERY line of dialogue before she even said it. I am not kidding. Even Oldman at one point tells her to 'SHUT UP!' I never thought I would find myself agreeing with a Russian terrorist but now I have.If you can overlook this minor, although highly irritating, glitch you will totally enjoy a high-octane action film with many, increasingly exciting, set-pieces. Very cool. "},{"Title":"A Riveting, exciting thriller.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A riveting, exciting, edge of your seat thriller that never lets up.  Buoyed by a good cast, script, special effects and directing, this movie is tops in its genre, in my opinion.  The only thing I wonder about is Harrison Ford's range of facial expression - he never seems to be able to get that baffled look off his face.  Gary Oldman is top-notch as usual, and Glenn Close has ample opportunity to demonstrate her acting talent.  If you're looking for a movie that will keep you on the edge of your seat from the first moment, Air Force One is it.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford At His Best!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is by far the most gripping movie of all time! I am a great fan of Mr. Ford and his acting in the movie is spectacular! The graphics alone will shock you and the music by Jerry Goldsmith is very delightful. Anybody who knows Jerry Goldsmith's work will note a Star Trek feel to the music! To sum it up this is a total movie and very watchable over and over again! 10/10 "}{"Title":"What's Wrong with Me? I Watch It Repeatedly (but not often)!","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is not a great film, not even what I'd call good. Try, Well... It's OK... I guess. But somehow, the good acting, and acceptably good score, make it watchable, and even fun.Randy Newman's score was rejected? Wow, Randy, that was a close call... Be careful what you offer to score from now on. Jerry Goldsmith's score was fine... Just what they needed for a pot-boiler like this. I really like Randy Newman's music, but his effort would have been wasted on this so-typically-Hollywood flick, I think.Wolfgang Petersen says, in the DVD Extra Features, that Harrison Ford performs all his stunts; I'm sure he meant the fistfights, but not the shots of him dangling on an Air Force-provided cable a thousand feet in the air! (Could have been a digital double I suppose...) But, still, the rest was pretty impressive stuff.I do like the premise. The President of the United States of America (hooray) gets really angry at terrorists and the misery they are causing... and then publicly declares it's their turn to sweat. Whew, they answer him immediately. It's just that when Harrison Ford does it, it sounds so much more laudable than in real life. Ha ha. Really.Anyway, I own the DVD (one of nine total). For me that's praise right there. I even watch it once every two or three months.If you rent the DVD, you'll enjoy it. If you buy the DVD, pay no more than $5.00 in a cut-out bin. Free Advice, worth what you paid for it. "},{"Title":"..I liked it - but I'm laughing now..","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Gee, you guys really DIDN'T like this movie, did you? I was really buzzing with it - I wasn't really familiar with the plot, so I didn't know that Harrison Ford was our feisty Prez. If you had read the trivia, you'd know the role was written for Kevin Kostner, who - thank heavens! - was obligated for some other role. Can you see him in all that action? I suspect Ford insisted they stick to his established rep, and all that fighting was added to whatever the script said. Yeah, it could have just stated The Prez. does a lot of fighting, and that would be just about all it needed. I would have been saying that while I was watching - I'm sure I would have had another opinion AFTER watching Air Force One. I was so busy trying to keep-up with the action and what The Prez. was saying - does he EVER speak in normal tones? - I missed his whole speech and then switched-on the subtitles. Even though I wasn't truly understanding the plot till then, I knew it had to be something pretty serious after all that red-dot stuff. Clevvvvvvvver.Weren't you suspicious when the baddies had to be checked again before getting on the Force that something wasn't right about them? Ivan and his gang surely would be as smart as and prepared as our Secret Service guys were, don't you think? I also agree with those who mentioned Executive Decision's way of getting on-and-off the plane was much cleverer (liked that movie, too). I also wondered howcome that guy who opened the door didn't sucked-away, but I was waiting with eyes open-wide to see what was coming-up next. I also spotted there was something not quite right about him, too. You know how the camera pauses on those guys and you gotta think fast.........when I REALLY started enjoying the movie was while I was reading all the stuff you guys threw at it. I mean, like those were pretty heavy weapons they were firing inside the fuselage; and, The Prez. was a pretty-good shot, because Vietnam was a pretty serious spat; do you think the REAL Air Force One has been fitted with an escape-pod?, and how quickly they were looking for it; yeah, I loved the laughing secretary, just waiting to be snatched-up; and all that political competition in DC; doesn't every one in the country know the Vice-Prez. is next in command, always ?; was so proud that Glenn Close had the gumption not to sign the petition (sweet woman!); I really was concerned for The Prez.'s family; my dad is a great man gave me a twitch, then, but I really didn't know that Oldman is always the bad-guy; I was unaware his Russian-accent was so bad till you guys told me, and I agree it's time to get off that bad-mouthing the Russians (I mean, Bush and Putin are friends, aren't they?); that salute between the fighter-plane pilot and The Prez. was sharp ! get off my plane was something surely The Prez. would have said, huh? I saw Firewall first and now am pleased to see that Ford was still feisty after 1997. Lots of stuntmen, don't you think? I saw a long list.....So, now I've had a very good laugh reading your trashy comments, and must admit I STILL like the movie. No doubt, I'll watch it again and get all the guffaws in the right place, I promise. All you folk who thought it was one of the best ever, you were awfully brave - hope you have the DVD to get-in some more patriotism.I got the DVD for some PR stuff, so I'm really ahead that I got a good movie, intentionally a comedy or not. I didn't compare it to Das Boot, even though Peterson and Marlowe got it together for a fine 2-hour watch. I'm sure all those people from foreign countries who were P.O.ed about braggy American's have seen some home-grown stuff they can crow about, too - if they haven't, then they should get busy. Maybe a little development of Radek's character could've given the Russians something to shout about - looked like a pretty nasty grunt to me.10, indeed !!! I thought the plane was gorgeous and all the other actors-actresses did a swell job. Whether you think the price to see the movie was an insult, they all made money. Give them a break! We all need an easy job some time or other....... P.S. 8/9/06Just watched again, with subtitles press-agent tells the Russies the fuselage is totally bullet-proof...... "},{"Title":"Blasterrific!!!!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Some movies are bad. Some are good. And some are more that amazing, that it's a shame movies are fantasies and not real life. The first time I watched AFO was way back, in 2002. Since then, I saw the movie other four times, but I didn't get bored, not even for a second. This film is so entertaining, that I'm sure I'll watch it over and over again. (And so should you!)Released in July,1997, AFO flew high, rapidly becoming a summer blockbuster, earning some 315 million dollars. And it's surely worth this money despite some minor flaws here and there, the movie is superbly crafted. It has all the ingredients for a blockbuster popular cast, great director,cool story and amazing special effects.Director Wolfgang Petersen did a great job, mixing action and suspense in ideal quantities and adding just a bit of drama to make the story more convincing.The plot line is great, absolutely breathtaking. It goes like this a commando team, formed out of American and Russian soldiers, capture General Ivan Radek. Three weeks later, the American President goes to Russia and holds an outstanding speech against international terrorism. On the way home, Russian terrorists devoted to Radek hijack Air Force One in order to demand the release of the general. Bodyguards try to save the President; they take him to the escape pod and jettison him. So they think. In fact, the President is still on board, angrier and meaner than ever, ready to fight against international terrorism. Many say this story is improbable,even more,impossible. Hello people! Because the presidential plane hasn't been hijacked yet, you can't blame the entire movie that it's impossible. And because we can't imagine Bush fighting with his bare hands with some (spoiler) bad-ass terrorists doesn't mean that the President should be a chicken. But why do some humans care so much about reality, as long as we're talking about movies? Movies are fantasies, they're unreal, that's why people call them movies. Their purpose is not to show reality, it's to transmit us messages or to show us what's good, and what's bad.Leading actor, Harrison Ford, does a great job playing the (spoiler) ass-kicker President, James Marshall. I'm sure if Kevin Costner had accepted the leading role, this movie wouldn't have been as good as we know it. Ford does an outstanding performance being a father, a husband, a world leader and a Medal of Honour winner from the Vietnam war. When terrorists seize the presidential plane, the Commander-in-Chief proves to be one heck of an adversary, killing the bad guys one by one. But don't get me wrong he's not a Dolph Lundgren-like killing machine; he's just trying to save his family and his employees from imminent death. Also, is it me or Ford looked as cool as ever in AFO? He was such a charismatic leader, and such a loving family man (although in real life, he left his kids and his wife, Mellisa Mathison, after 17 years of marriage)that it's a shame he's not the Commander-in-Chief. Also, I found out that Ford was really interested in this movie. He went with director Petersen and some other men to Andrews AF Base, to take a look inside one of the planes. But Clinton, who was with them, almost fined them, because they would have liked to see the jet's undercarriage.The other actors also did a great job. Gary Oldman is one mean, ruthless, Communist terrorist. He threatens the White House that he will kill a hostage at every half an hour, until his demands are made real. And he also lends his character, Egor Korshunov, a part of his intriguing insanity. You should surely be out of your minds, in order to hijack the plane carrying the American Prez, risking the outbreak of World War III. Glenn Close also does a cool performance, depicting the Vice President. Although she's at the White House, far away from the mid-air combat, she has to make some crucial decisions-like firing a heat-seeking missile towards Air Force One, which will not hit the plane, but shake it strongly, all this in order to help Prez Marshall defeat one of the terrorists. I could also detect a slight care towards the President (attention, First Lady!). Convincing roles are also those of Wendy Crewson and Liesel Matthews, a.k.a the wife and daughter of the President, William H. Macy-Major Cadwell, and Dean Stockwell-Defense Secretary Walter Dean. Here are 2 thumbs downthe film's casting took people into lots of confusion. Egor Korshunov became Ivan Korshunov and Ivan Radek became Alexander Radek. Another complaint is a plot hole left unsolvedwe do not find out why Agent Gibbs turned against Washington and allied with the terrorists. Maybe it was money, maybe it was brainwash.But the special effects are really good Extender 1-0 exploding in mid air, the President hanging out of Air Force One etc. all these scenes are simply breathtaking and nail-biting. Air Force One crashing into the Caspian Sea is also a well-made scene, even though the plane seems to cruise a bit slow and the water looks like concrete. You might take into consideration that way back,in 1997, Pentium II computers had just arrived.The soundtrack made by Jerry Goldsmith is awesome and helps you feel the intense suspense throughout the movie. It's an incredible job, if you think that the music had to be composed in just 2 weeks.And a major thumbs up for somethingthe nuclear code issue is solved in a fine way. In the end, I tell you all if you like good action movies,if you're H.F. fans or if you can take the credit that films are fantasy and not real life, go and watch AFO. And if you've already watched it, watch it again. I give it a 10 out of 10 for outstanding performance and for the incredible entertainment it offers to the public. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film painted an exceptional portrait of the American spirit, pitching Harrison Ford as the president of the United States and Gary Oldman as a Russian terrorist hijacking Air Force One. Harrison Ford played his part excellently and Gary Oldman was a very convincingly evil villain.The whole premise of refusing to negotiate with terrorists is one that I personally believe fully in, and agree with. The love that President Marshall holds for his family is refreshing, as well as his loyalty and commitment to his country.This movie is an emotional roller coaster, to say the least. There were several times during the movie that nearly bring you to tears showing the heartlessness and cruelness that the terrorists possess, but during the final half hour of the film, it uplifts the heart of any who watch it with it's picture of the American spirit. Jerry Goldsmith's score helped director Wolfgang Peterson realize that. If you say, as I have heard many say before, that the ending to this movie stinks, I have to question whether or not you really love your country. Personally, I thought the ending was the most uplifting movie ending I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a great thriller, i admit it, it had me biting my nails throughout half of the movie, but it was great. Not reall that original but still a great thriller for anyone who likes that type of movies and Harrison Ford, who is a great actor by the way "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a propaganda film Leni Riefenstahl, Mao and Stalin would be proud of. Senseless, waste of time, starring wooden Harrison Ford who has been playing the same role, since Han Solo and Deckard of Blade Runner, now for 20 years. He is certainly one of the worst professional actors in the world. "},{"Title":"Great actor Harrison Ford, not credible as the President","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I did not like this movie, because the plot is weak, almost innocent. Trying to portrait a President-hero, they showed a weak acting Harrison Ford. I never saw in him a President, not even a Senator or a speaker of a President. And as his acting was weak, the weaker plot fell down.I really love the other movies of Ford, but this... absolutely not. "},{"Title":"Pure Adrenaline Rush!","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Granted, the premise is not even remotely plausible, but then again, can you name an action movie that is realistic? I can't. By nature, action movies are over-the-top, but it's the director's job to make sure that the audience believes what is happening on screen is real. Peter Jackson did it for Lord of the Rings, and Wolfgang Peterson does it for Air Force One. President James Marshall (Harrison Ford) has just announced that the United States will not negotiate with terrorists after capturing a renegade Kazakhstani general. He's soon going to find out just how far he is willing to go to keep his word after Air Force One is hijacked by a group of terrorists (led by Gary Oldman in a frightening performance) who want the general released.Harrison Ford has been hailed as one of the all-time favorite movie presidents, and rightly so. He makes Marshall into both a powerful man who does the right thing but also a family man. In what is arguably the film's most tense scene, he hides in horror while upstairs there is a tragedy going on that he cannot (logically) stop.While Ford is excellent as the heroic president-turned-action hero, the film is stolen from him by Gary Oldman. Ivan Korushnov, the lead terrorist is a dangerous, intelligent radical who has no moral boundaries. There is no line to be crossed; there is nothing he won't do to get what he wants. Oldman plays him with such intensity and villainy that he's absolutely terrifying. This is a villain you won't soon forget.In an action movie, the action sequences are the stars of the show, and Air Force One doesn't disappoint. They aren't merely impressive, they're spectacular. The film opens with a scene like something straight out of Rainbow Six, and after calming down for about twenty minutes, it goes full force into all-out action. The visuals are top-notch, including a mid-air battle that puts True Lies to shame.Credit must go to Wolfgang Peterson for crafting such a wild thrill ride. He works best in claustrophobic situations, and he makes good use out of the inside (and out) of a plane. The pacing is relentless; once the film starts it doesn't stop until the end. There's a lot going on, but by limiting his focus to the plane and the White House (where a helpless Vice President Glenn Close tries to avoid doing the inevitable), Peterson avoids confusion.Air Force One isn't flawless, however. There's one spot where a cut was clearly made, and some of the dialogue could have been rewritten. As it is, Air Force One is a flight you won't want to miss (forgive the cliché).Interesting note The studio (and Harrison Ford) tried to get a PG-13 rating for the film. After seeing it, I don't know who in the right mind could think that was even possible. The film is hyper-violent, and even the MPAA wouldn't sink THAT low (yet)...My rating Rated R for Strong Violence and Language. "},{"Title":"Come back, Jack Ryan!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Below average hostage/hijacking/political thriller.Looking at the cast, one would expect this movie to be worthy of one's time. Harrison Ford, Gary Oldham, William H. Macy, Dean Stockwell, Glenn Close - names that should amount to a watch-worthy experience. However, the movie falls short on all accounts.Warning This comment contains minor spoilers.A poor man's version of the Jack Ryan series. Harrison Ford plays the role of president Marshall, on board the USAF1 which gets hijacked by Kazakh terrorists. Having recently given a speech on his new Just Say No-politics towards terrorists, negotiations appear to be out of the question. Not all of his government and staff agree on this, however.This could have made an interesting movie. The tension in the White House, when faced with the fact that it is the country's leader who is taken hostage, combined with the political intrigues that arise in such a situation, should have been exploited further. Instead, we are treated with the traditional gung-ho blazing guns solutions where one man saves the day. We've seen it a million times before, and a hundred times better.Even the special effects are highly ordinary. A lot of them are clearly computer generated, and it is a let-down when it becomes this visible. Better airplane fighting scenes were filmed 40 years ago.Every cliché appears, even the amazing fighting inside an airplane with a big hole in its side, without being sucked out into thin air scene.Some enjoyment can be had from trying to find the most stupid scene. My favorite Look for the parachuting secretary with a happy smile on her face, 15000 feet above sea level, wearing only a thin blouse.From the acting, it seems that the actors are aware that this is not the movie they will be rememvered by. Particularly disappointing is Gary Oldham on autopilot, as the one-dimensional villain. Ford ditto, as the good guy.While it is reassuring to see that the American president saves the day yet again, not even the casting crew stars can save this film. In the computer world, GIGO means Garbage In, Garbage Out. It applies here as well. Spend more money on the manuscript next time, Mr. Petersen.Avoid 4/10 "},{"Title":"Nonsense","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The premise is utter nonsense. No one, especially the Secret Service could be that stupid. If you can't figure out what's going to happen before it happens, you're either brain-dead or flirting with alzheimers. Even if this rents for $1, don't bother. Drivel.  Not worth the time it takes to watch it. "}{"Title":"Combat in the sky...on Air Force One no less...","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As action thrillers, go, AIR FORCE ONE has enough of a plot to keep you watching closely as terrorists take over the presidential plane, a sleek beauty of a craft that makes a gleaming set piece for this kind of adventure in the sky. And who is better qualified to take care of things than HARRISON FORD, somewhat less impressive without that hat and familiar stubble as Indiana Jones. (Well, maybe KEVIN COSTNER who was originally slated for the role).GLENN CLOSE makes a very commanding presence as the Vice President, seemingly never at a loss in moments of distress, and GARY OLDMAN handles his Russian accent and menacing villainy with his usual aplomb. It's just that if you stop long enough to take a breath while all the action is going on, you might see that underneath all the fancy pinnings this is regulation stuff that's been time countless times before--and sometimes with better results.The cast is impressive with WILLIAM H. MACY and DEAN STOCKWELL on the prez's team and Jerry Goldsmith providing another one of his dependable, if unmemorable, action scores.And although Wolfgang Petersen does a nifty job of directing, turning the president of the U.S. into an action hero performing stunts that seasoned stuntmen must have been hired for, does stretch credibility a good deal for the climactic moments when airborne peril is at the max for a cliffhanger ending.Not bad as an action thriller, but just don't expect it to be any more substantial than a sleek new video game. "},{"Title":"A Turkey if there ever was one","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is essentially a double episode of Walker Texas Ranger with Cordell as president, and played by Han Solo. Sounds good? Well, if you're a fan of formulaic cliches and unrealistic action, maybe. Harrison Ford is on the brink of parody, but he hasn't got much to work on, though. The movie is just an excuse for mindless action and actors delivering over-macho lines to each other. It reminds me somewhat of True Lies...but that was a comedy, right? Also Dr. Stranglove springs to mind, which Kubrick ingeniously changed into a hilarious satire because a straight treatment probably would have ended up, well, as bad as this. One can only start to wonder what poor ol' Gary Oldman is doing in this movie.  "},{"Title":"Disgustingly bad","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What can I say? That this movie is BAD? No. It's WORSE. Totally unrealistic for both situations and characters (even though I admit that only USA could have an ex combatant as President and be proud of it!), completely ridiculous, senseless and most of all unrespectful and impudent towards Russia and the rest of the world. Actors are ridiculously bad, dialogues are ridiculously bad... I thought Independece Day was the worst, but that at least was funny in its idiocy! This movie really disgusted me deeply inside. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford is THE movie President of the United States in this movie. Action packed heroism keeps you on the edge of your seat the whole movie. Although the mid-air rescue sequence is a little improbable, the remainder of the movie is extremely believable.  This is one of the ten most enjoyable movies I've ever seen - and I've watched it at least six times. "},{"Title":"Air Force Dumb...","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ...It is so sad when actors on the level as the cast here must take a dumb action movie just to cash a paycheck.  Yes, Wolfgang, we know you directed Das Boot, now stop bothering Jurgen and sending your cameras zooming down long hallways.  Stockwell should have worn a sign reading Alexander Haig.  Really sad, shame on those involved for this mindlessly violent effort.  Is it entertaining to watch the first lady and daughter have a gun shoved into their faces every two minutes?  "},{"Title":"Horrible, just horrible","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Terrorists take over Air Force One. The president (Harrison Ford) turns out to be the most action-packed president ever. Come on, what's going on here?I finally got around to seeing this movie today, after failing to watch it the last five or six times it's been on. I wasn't expecting too much, knowing what it was about, but to, in the end, realize that the only good thing about the movie was Gary Oldman was something I hadn't imagined.Glenn Close as the Vice President could just as well have been replaced by a cardboard. Her facial expressions were in no way believable, and the delivering of her lines was the worst I've ever seen from her.Harrison Ford is a great actor, no doubt about that, but the whole concept of the movie made sure I couldn't enjoy it. He wasn't playing the role of a president. He was playing the role of an actionhero (first thing that comes to mind is Bruce Willis in Die Hard - not exactly the guy you'd think of as your president).Gary Oldman however made a great villain, which is just about the only good thing there is to say about this movie.Avoid at all costs!2/10 "},{"Title":"The Worst Film of Harrison Ford's Career","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It was the most annoying and stupidest film that I saw in 1997.  I remember reading somewhere where Harrison Ford had stated about his dislike for the film, Blade Runner(1982).  Well, Air Force One(1997) is a lousy feature compared to that scifi classic.  Gary Oldman is average as the main villain.  One reason I hate this movie is its Hollywood by the numbers approach and lack of any compelling characters.It seems that Harrison Ford is trying to be John Wayne in his actions and this is the film's fatal mistake.  The role of the President was originally written for Kevin Costner who instead choose to do The Postman(1997).  I depised Air Force One(1997) so much that I was rooting for the villains to succeed.  Air Force One is a disgrace from a compatent director like Wolfgang Petersen who did better things like Das Boot(1981), The Neverending Story(1984), and In the Line of Fire(1993).  Glenn Close is the only actor who gives an interesting performance in the movie. "},{"Title":"Why do they make these, why do people watch them.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you saw Airport '77, Passenger 57, and The Peacemaker then you have seen this movie.  The good guys are good and the bad guys are bad.  And surprise surprise good wins.  Oh, sorry I gave away the ending. "},{"Title":"The good guys are here!","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" LOL, that just summed up the whole movie, didn't it? So last night I was looking for a movie to watch and in my mom's collection I found Air Force One and I noticed that Harrison Ford was in it, so I figured I would give it a look. So I watched it and all I can say is American Propaganda much? Now I'm all American, don't get me wrong, I love my country, but this was a bit much and incredibly insulting. If we really had a president like James Marshall, played by Ford, I'd say America would be a very exciting place of nothing but none-stop action. The whole movie either took itself too seriously or then would get into an Arnold Schwartzenegger type of action movie where Ford would say that little one liner before the big climax. Oh, I loved the 25 endings of how they could keep the action going. Now I love action movies, don't get me wrong, but this story was just silly and unnecessary.President James Marshell is on the fight of stopping terrorism, Russian terrorism to be more specific. Well he boards his flight back to the states, Air Force One starts off well, but is quickly hijacked by Ivan Korshunov and his men, terrorists who want their General Radek released from prison in return for the passengers on board, which isn't good since I guess he was hard to capture and is a deadly terrorist. Ivan makes threats to kill of the passengers every half hour if the vice president does not meet his demands. But the President does not chicken out, he stays on board and will fight these terrorists and win back the plane.Air Force One is non-stop action with a mixture of the hit TV show West Wing. Like I said, I don't mind an action movie, sometimes I love the most cliché'd one's, but not when it comes to serious stuff like terrorism, but I think I'm speaking from a post 9/11 view, so maybe if I saw this movie a before then, I wouldn't have mind it that much, but even then, there were moments that were terribly over acted and for me, it just didn't work for having a president like James Marshall, please, I wish. I can't wait to see President Bush on top of a tanker sporting a look like Rambo, but I guess I shouldn't hold my breath.4/10 "},{"Title":"secret service agent disloyalty never explained","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched the whole movie waiting to find out why the secret service agent who allowed the terrorist access to the weapons was disloyal, but it was never disclosed. Why was the secret service agent disloyal?The disloyal secret service agent seems to be critial to the plot, yet it is never reveled.It seems to be a goof, or planned because they could not figure out how it could happen, but it left me feeling that a great movie became a fair movie simply because it didn't make sense.does anyone know why the secret service agent was disloyal? was he a loyal to Russia, did he sell out for money? it's never disclosed "}{"Title":"Patriotic rubbish","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  How can you consider a film thrilling when you know from the beginning what is going to happen? I wish they make one day a film where the baddies win, that would be kind of original. "},{"Title":"The most ridiculous movie in history","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It is so absurd, so ridiculous, so funny. There are many slapstick movies, but this one beats them all. I have been slipping from my seat, laying on the floor, grasping for breath, nearly dying from laughter. Stan Laurel, Jerry Lewis, Ronald Reagan, Bob Hope, even Carry - they all can't do what Harrison Ford did in this movie. Outrageous! I would rate it 10++ in the Comedy Category, but as an action movie, this rubbish just gets a 1--. "},{"Title":"Typically stupid Hollywood action film","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Gary Oldham's brilliant acting as the terrorist and Xander Berkeley and William H. Macy as Secret Service agents are the only reasons to see this contrived mess.  The president of the United States as an action hero??? Give me a break, please.  Glenn Close is laughable as the concerned Vice President, and Ford's fighting scenes are ludicrous.  Will someone tell this man that 1) he is too old for these roles,; and 2) the Cold War is over. "},{"Title":"A Great Thriller!","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One is a very good thriller. The action and suspense will be nothing to forget. This movie is about the President's plane, Air Force One being hijacked by Russian nationalists with the President on board. Now it's up to the President and the Vice-President to negotiate with the terrorists or the hostages will die. The acting in this film is pretty good. Harrison Ford did justice with his outstanding performance as the President. Gary Oldman is good as the evil terrorist. The music in this film is fabulous and patriotic considering that the score took two weeks by Jerry Goldmith to compose. I liked the effects in this film. There is nothing special, but for a film from 1997, this has good effects even though there are few. Overall, this is a good movie for everybody except for kids. This film is a moving picture with outstanding courage. My rating is 10/10. "},{"Title":"American propaganda at its best","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is by far the worst movie I have ever seen in my life! Once you watch movies like this, you finally understand why American people are so dumb. Don't watch it!!! Its goes to show you that anyone with the money can make whatever movie they want, only in America! Do they even think about other people, other countries? Why don't they make a movie that shows the truth for a change? How about all the people killed around the world because of politics that American presidents dictate. This Top Gun special effects crap can only work on uneducated public (which is almost 75% of America), and thats where movie companies get the money to make even more movies like this. This is absolutely by far the biggest piece of garbage that could ever come to the big screen!!! "},{"Title":"I saw this for the first time last night......","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I can't believe anybody, and I mean anybody could make a film as BAD as this (of course I'm excluding Armageddon as that pretty much sets the standard).A 747 evading 6 migs for over 2 mins, people para-sliding down a wire at over 500 mph and not having their clothes ripped off or even showing the effects of wind. Some dumb gung ho pilot sacrificing himself to save the president from the 2nd missile that was fired in the 2 minute window. The bad guy at the end shooting everybody but giving Harrison Ford like 10 minutes to rescue himself....and not forgetting the ridiculous plane crash at the end.This film is just awful. I actually had to turn over before the end.Honestly there should be a law against films like this. Somebody should have done time over this. I would gladly have thrown away the key. "},{"Title":"Right wing propaganda","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Oh no. Having just seen this film I feel like I've been watching something evil and sick, like Nazi propaganda and need to have a shower. This is Hollywood at its absolute nadir. Here are the lessons we are supposed to learn from the filmThe USA is the greatest country in the world. All other nations are at the very least dodgy and not to be trusted because they don't have the pure family values of good old Uncle Sam.Anyone who might have a problem with US foreign policy must be a terrorist and/or twisted and heartless.Might is right, and violence is the only answer to violence.What in the name of all that is clean and decent were good actors like Glenn Close, Gary Oldman and William H. Macy doing making this deeply upsetting piece of mindless fascistic filth? Awful, just awful, and an insult to the intelligence on so many levels. Still, by the looks of the majority of reviews I've read so far, it looks like a lot of you disagree. Sad. "},{"Title":"Excellently acted & portrayed.  Slightly futuristic but believable.","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A1 acting and casting.  Story-line excellent but slightly unbelievable as to the special effects, such as the escape capsule.  Highly rated, nonetheless.  Harrison Ford, as per his norm, does a magnificent and highly believable job in his portrayal of the President - Some day we might have a president that is so action-oriented - but I doubt if we would in my lifetime. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford is the president of the United States, and a mighty bad ass, one man army he is","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford is the president of the United States, and mighty bad ass one man army he is. I wonder if Petersen ment this film to be a parody? the evil Soviet Union threatens to come back! the president of USA is kidnapped by a bunch communist terrorists! but be afraid no more! Harrison Ford steps up and teaches the bad ivans a lesson.This has got to be the worst movie I have ever seen. Full of cliches, laughably typical red neck patriotism and equally laughable plot!I was rooting for the terrorists for the whole film. "},{"Title":"An Edge Of Your Seat Thriller","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is an edge of your seat thriller, it hits cruising speed with its first scene and never slows down. Though this type of action film has been done before, it makes up for it's unoriginality by being clever, tense, and well acted. Harrison Ford gives one of his better performances in this film, the characters that Harrison Ford plays are always believeable and so is this one. This is a very well made and very entertaining movie. "}{"Title":"Air Farce One","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Is this a film or a comic strip?  If hijacking Air Force One was so easy - why hasn't it happened already?This film is a veritable colander of plot holes more easily shot to pieces than - well - a terrorist in this film. I've nothing against a straight forward disengage-brain action film, but Harrison Ford is better than this - and he should know it. So is Wolfgang Peterson.In summation, this is one film that only scored big with Americans who use phrases such as Proud homeland and Warm-blooded patriot in reviewing it.Oh dear. "},{"Title":"Air Farce One","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My god, I can't honestly believe there's someone who actually thinks this movie is to be taken seriously.I've been forced to give this movie a 1 because IMDb doesn't let me use a zero. This atrocious thing can be described with three words insult to intelligence. Want me to be more specific? Here we go 1) the whole premise is stupid enough to make those who love this movie appear even dumber in comparison. The President, trapped inside the AFO with a bunch of Russian terrorists, grabs a gun and kills everyone, saving the day. If this doesn't make you smile, you must be some really mentally challenged person 2) the patriotism. I will never understand how a German director ends up being more patriotic than the most patriotic republican hillbilly, but this really sets a new standard The President single handedly decimating an entire platoon of uber-trained Russian soldiers. The red, white, blue wires line. The teenage daughter smack-talking the Russian leader My father is a great man, the American general The president will use his glove to send that Russian.. etc. I could go on and on. It's a huge turn off when there's a large amount of US patriotism in some movies, but this one is actually built around that premise. Vomit inducing is the only way I can use to describe my feelings.3) action. Action is professionally directed, but dull. Photography is so bland and soft it looks like a TV movie, thus making everything look as if it were filmed in your living room.4) characters. Cardboard characters all around. The Russian dude is a joke, the VP is bland as hell, the President is so strong and invincible you'd actually think he was created in a lab, daughter is annoying, everyone else is totally shallow 5) inconsistencies. besides the already mentioned joke hijacking, we also have thousands of bullets shot and not one hitting the fuselage; people parachuting off the plane at insane height and speed with their hair barely moving; two Harriers unable to hit a plane unless they're 20 feet from it, and on, and on..final comment if insane patriotism doesn't bother you; if uninteresting and insipid characters are your favourite meal; if dull and unexciting action is your game; if anti-climatic and ridiculously bad CGI ridden endings are your league; if you can go on with a list of inconsistencies, mistakes, crappy lines and horrible special effects and if you can't choose between this crap and a moltitude of GOOD and DECENT action movies then AFO is the movie for you. But let me tell you something I'm not envious "},{"Title":"A great comedy!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yessss... I heard that some American expiats watching this erm... movie at Warsaw cinemas were offended by people laughing continuously. I have also heard that two people fainted (because they could not stop laughing) at the moment when Indy... ooops president says that he was in Vietnam. If you love comedies, this movie (?) is a must! "},{"Title":"Hollywood Trash - This Movie Should Be Outlawed","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wow! This was bad. This type of movie really puts me through a lot of pain yet somehow I keep hoping that maybe the next one I see will be different or better. The money spent on this absolute trash is amazing, sad, and so disturbing. As for Harrison Ford, he must be a little lost. Presumably he can pick and choose his roles, and either no longer cares or has been lucky to have made a few good choices earlier on in his career.The couple of interesting facts (although the writers probably made them up) in the movie should have been told to the audience at the start of the movie. This would have enabled us all to go home with the possibility of having a little bit of respect left for the Hollywood Circus. "},{"Title":"Air Force One is pure 90s action","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One is one of the biggest films of the 1990s and for good reason. It features everything that made the 90s a great decade for motion pictures. Air Force One would be one of those films that help made the 90s something special in terms of how a action movie is suppose to be. With a strong cast that stars Harrison Ford as the film protagonist President James Marshall. It's easy to stand that James Marshall is the best fictional president and with Harrison's performance it is easy to see why because he play such a strong character in this film and gives new meaning to the term Man of action and that's exactly what this president does. While his family, played by Wendy Crewson as Grace Marshall and their daughter is played by Liesel MarshallGlenn Close plays Vice President Kathryn Bennett she shows to be just the woman for the job and Glenn brings this character to life with her performance. Gary Oldman plays Ivan Korshunov the film main antagonist, Gary's performance is one of the most bone chilling and powerful performances of any villain in a film Gary turn it up high.The music in Air Force One is so well balance and it help move the story to bring it to life Jerry Goldsmith made a very good musical score in the film as each piece helps the filmThe plot is one of the most intense stories you can ever see in a movie and with the cast's Performance it helps make it convince as the thrill ride goes on.Do yourself a favor and watch this 1990s classic it is one of the best films of the decade I give Air Force One An 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This presidential ride aboard Air Force One leaves viewers on the edge of their seats","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One starts out with the president of the United States in Moscow signing a no nonsense pact with the Russian premier in regards to dealing with terrorists. Harrison Ford, portraying the role of the president, has to soon wonder about his dealings as a group of Russian neo-nationalists have managed to hijack the presidential plane with him, his family, and other members of the government aboard. These hijackers desire the release from a Russian prison one of their central leaders in a coup against the current Russian premier and his government. With some discharge of weapons aboard the plane, and a few hostages killed, the suspense builds to a tension-filled ride. Finally, the president manages to turn the tide in his favor, but the plane, which was severely crippled in various systems, now has to piloted for a possible landing. And then, a traitor on board plays what could be a final card in this suspenseful game.Harrison Ford plays the president, Gary Oldman the leader of the terrorists, and other members of the cast include Glenn Close as the Vice President on the ground, William H. Macy as staff, Wendy Crewson as the president's wife, and Dean Stockwell as Secretary of Defense. All in all, a very good movie to view. "},{"Title":"On the Edge of My Seat","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" No matter how many times I see this film, I am always on the edge of my seat. The tension of wondering if the president will be rescued is just a small part of it. It's hard to believe that my emotions are always the same; I guess this is what makes a good film.Every actor in this film makes me believe they are who they are portraying from the military officers to the future postmaster general. The scenes between the president and his daughter -- well they are priceless! And the President and First Lady moments just make me want to put these two in the White House. I also like Glenn Close's version of the Vice President Bennet and her faith in President Marshall. "},{"Title":"The greatest (fictional) President of all time","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford plays... well, basically Harrison Ford, only he's President of America. And that's pretty believable. He's at his most charming all the way through the film &#x96; basically Han Solo crossed with Indiana Jones. It doesn't take much imagination to see how easily he was 'elected' into the White House. But of course the cons of being the most powerful man in the world means that people like Gary Oldman will try and slip on board your plane, take your family hostage and threaten to murder them unless he gets what he wants. In this case... some rogue dictator general needs freeing from prison, but that's by the by. All that matters is that President Ford (no, that's not his name, but I can't remember what it was) is on the loose aboard the presidential plane, Air Force One, and not too happy about the unwanted guests.When I first went to see Air Force One in the cinema, the film 'Die Hard' was at the back of my mind. In Die Hard, Bruce Willis had an entire skyscraper to hide in while he picked off the terrorists one by one. I did wonder whether a film about a man trying to hide in a plane (even Air Force One) would actually be believable. I was wrong. Don't think that just because the action centres on one (slightly smaller) location that it isn't brilliantly tense.It's an action film, so if you're into your tense stand-offs and shooting bad-guys, you should love this. There are plenty of decent enough characters, but it's Harrison Ford who carries the film on his own. Like I say, he's at his most charming and you can't help but root for him. And it's worth mentioning Gary Oldman, who, whereas Ford is at his most charming, Oldman revels in his evil-doings. There's no mistaking 'good' and 'bad' in this film.It's nearly two hours long, but it doesn't seem that way. Just like its simple setting, it has an equally simple plot and you don't really need to use too much brainpower to understand anything. But then that's its major selling point &#x96; it doesn't try to be anything other than a rocking action film. And, based on that, it succeeds.And, when Barrack Obama steps down, I really think Harrison Ford should take up the mantle. "},{"Title":"Excellent action-thriller about terrorism hits close to home","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One is among the best and one of my favorite action-thriller films. Harrison Ford fits to a tee the image of a modern-day Errol Flynn. Of course the plots for these types of terrorist-criminal-action films are quite far-fetched. So to make them at all believable, the script writers have to find ingenious ways that such capers might be pulled off. And that makes for a lot of mystery and fun entertainment in the movie. The plot and script for this film are excellent, and all the cast play their roles very well. The cinematography, CGI and special effects are tops. Jurassic Park was the first film to gross more than $1 billion worldwide in 1993, and Titanic in 1997 was the first film to gross more than $2 billion in worldwide box office receipts. Only four other films that year grossed more $300 million, and Air Force One came in fifth at just over $300 million. I don't know if it was intended or not, but one aspect of the film clearly harkened back to a recent global event that was the shame of world leaders, including the U.S. and United Nations. This was a poignant scene in this film. Ford, as U.S. President James Marshall, attends a celebration banquet in Moscow. It is honoring him for his efforts to capture a former Soviet general who was now a tyrant dictator of a former satellite country, Kazakhstan. General Alexander Radek was a threat to freedom and world peace. Ford said he visited refugee camps that day, and he departed from his prepared speech. We were too late, he said. The Radek regime murdered over 200,000 men, women and children as we watched it on TV. We let it happen. People were being slaughtered for a year. We issued economic sanctions and hid behind the rhetoric of diplomacy. How dare we! The dead remember. Real peace is not just the absence of conflict, it's the presence of justice. Tonight I come to you with a pledge to change America's policy. Never again will I allow our political self- interest to deter us from doing what we know to be morally right.The description in this scene had an uncanny resemblance to an actual event just three years earlier. The Rwanda genocide took place in 1994. Some 800,000 men, women and children were slaughtered by a majority ethnic group in that nation while the U.S. and United Nations looked on. The movie, Hotel Rwanda in 2004 is about that genocide. It portrays UN peace-keeping troops who are standing by as the carnage takes place in front of them. They were not permitted to use force to stop the killing. In one poignant scene in that film, we hear a radio broadcast in the background with U.S. President Bill Clinton talking about diplomatic efforts to try to stop the genocide. But the killing continued for nearly three months. The White House had known about the uprising before it started, but kept quiet about it to justify its inaction. Clinton later said that the failure of the U.S. to intervene in the genocide was one of his main foreign policy failures. In 2000, the UN explicitly stated that its reaction to the situation in Rwanda was a failure. Former UN secretary general Kofi Annan said The international community failed Rwanda and that must leave us always with a sense of bitter regret.One must wonder about the state of terrorist activities in the world today. Will force be necessary to stop the killing and carnage? Will the U.S. president and other world leaders have the gumption to use force to stop the tyranny, to save thousands of lives, and to protect innocent people? As a world super power, does the U.S. have a moral duty to help protect our brother human beings in the Middle East, Asia, Africa and elsewhere? Today, whole cultures and ethnic groups are under attack and being killed in several nations around the world. But, so far, there seems to be little humanitarian interest among world leaders to use force if necessary to stop the carnage. So, we impose economic sanctions, and use diplomatic gestures while thousands of innocent children, women and men are being murdered or driven from their homes. Ford's talk in Air Force One was an inspiring moment that would make any American and most other people proud of being human. I'm glad that Hollywood at times can come up with social dialog that's so fitting for our times. It's too bad when the film industry sees the reality of the world, but our political leaders don't &#x96; or they don't have the courage and strength to act for the protection of the innocent. Will we learn from our past or not? "},{"Title":"Even with this being just a movie, a couple scenes floored me!","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie in theaters for the first time, and I had seen other terrorist movies beforehand. But Gary Oldman as the leading terrorist, somehow, he both angered and surprised me...twice! Two hostages he shot so coldly, I wanted him shot dead after the second one, but then, the movie would be over too soon. Director Wolfgang Petersen, I've known and liked ever since the Neverending Story from 1984, up to the present. I finally reconciled with the two executions, but I still don't agree with them needing to be there, even though, I respect WP's decision to not show the actual shooting of the second, being that it was intense enough already just implying it. I haven't seen Das Boot yet, but I am interested after seeing some of his other work. "}{"Title":"What A President!","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wolfgang Petersen directed this exciting action-adventure tale that stars Harrison Ford as American President James Marshall, who has just given an historic speech in Moscow about terrorism when, en route home, terrorists led by Ivan Korshunov(played by Gary Oldman) hijack Air Force One(the President's plane) and threaten to kill the passengers one at a time until their demands are met. What they didn't count on was the resilience of the President, who takes up arms himself and battles the terrorists, determined to retake his plane. Thrilling, rousing film may have an unlikely premise that resembles Die Hard, but is still handled with intelligence and skill, with fine performances and direction. We need more leaders like James Marshall! "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford gets my vote for President!","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One has all the makings of an unforgettable thrill ride one that you won't soon forget!Air Force One is a good, well-liked and appreciated action-packed thriller with one great cast! Harrison Ford, Gary Oldman, and Glenn Close are the leads. Harrison Ford is the best in one of his most memorable roles playing as the President of the United States. Gary Oldman is fierce and superb as the lead Russian terrorist. Glenn Close is very fine as the Vice President as she acts so within her character consistently throughout. These star performances of Ford, Oldman and Close, elevate Air Force One into far greater heights than imaginable. Air Force One's a special film, as it delivers simplistic entertainment to a tee. It's not a thinker. They took out all the thinker parts for the better. Air Force One has an outstanding all-around production value as the effects are great. The directing lens is fairly poor, however, being too closely framed throughout. There's a significant deal of inauthenticity attached to the story line, largely in part how easily the terrorists infiltrate Air Force One and then precede to execute and carry out their evil plans without any real resistance, but it all works for the good as it allows for a really fine and I think fun, family adventure.Air Force One soars all the way up to a 7! "},{"Title":"Critical Policy and a Portrait of Terrorism","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One have a USA president idealized (but we all wish it were so), a harsh critique of American politics (though we can also expand the model of world politics) and portrays terrorism in way convincingly and realistic. The production begins with USA President James Marshall (Harrison Ford) on a visit to Russia to be honored by the arrest of the dictator of Kazakhstan, Radek (Jürgen Prochnow), however, during his speech, he criticizes the behavior of your country, because of bureaucracy and diplomacy, watched passively the dictator of Kazakhstan explore and kill his own people. When the president and his family get in the Air Force One to return to the USA, a Radek supporter group of the terrorist led by cruel Ivan Korshunov (Gary Oldman) takes control of the presidential plane and demanded the release of dictator. Otherwise, he will kill the wife and daughter of the president, who is in a terrible dilemma, because if cede negotiate with terrorists and deny what he preached, while deciding not to negotiate may see your family being murdered. With a beautiful and exquisite soundtrack in the first minutes of the film, which exalts American patriotism and reflects the hope and freedom, Air Force One introduces us - after the operation of prison of Radek - a discourse against terrorism and the promise of radical change in politics, made by USA President James Marshall. But it is after boarding the President and his family to the Air Force One that the action and the story starts to develop. Minutes after takeoff, the Russian terrorist Ivan Korshunov and his group take control of the plane and make everyone on board hostage. However, those loyal to Radek not know is that James Marshall did not leave Air Force One through the escape pod, but remained on the aircraft to save his family. Filled with ironic and critical dialogs regarding the current political and mode of action of rulers on terrorism, the film strikes hard the bureaucratic model before a dangerous situation and even day-to-day lives of citizens. Besides the clash between Marshall and Korshunov, representing radicalism for democracy and the struggle to establish peace, respectively. Air Force One also highlights the power struggle between Vice President Kathryn Bennett (Glenn Close) and the Defense Secretary Walter Dean (Dean Stockwell), wondering if Marshall is still able to perform his job, Walter tries to convince Kathryn sign a petition declaring Marshall unable to govern, thus dismissing the USA presidency. Attached to it, there criticism of the press and media in discrete scenes and intelligent dialogs. Of course, I can't forget of leave a comment for the talented cast with Harrison Ford, Gary Oldman, Glenn Close and William H. Macy that give brightness to the screen with its clean and elegant performances. Harrison Ford is fabulous as the USA president, pose with peaceful and diplomatic, but at the same time willing to fight for what he believes, the actor conveys the sense of justice and commitment. Gary Oldman no comments... The British is magnificent in his portrayal of a fanatic and cynical terrorist, his mere presence causes chills and their violent actions leave the viewer tense and not knowing your next step. Glenn Close is beautiful and elegant as the vice president and faithful to Marshall who seeks tranquility to the people. After watching Air Force One you can be sure that Harrison Ford should be the USA president.I BELIEVE IN HARRISON FORD! "},{"Title":"Captivating! Ford & Oldman are Excellent!","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wolfgang Petersen's 'Air Force One' is a Captivating Action-Thriller, that ranks amongst the finest films from 1997. Its an extremely gripping film with Harrison Ford & Gary Oldman delivering Excellent Performances!'Air Force One' Synopsis Hijackers seize the plane carrying the President of the United States and his family, but he (an ex-soldier) works from hiding to defeat them.'Air Force One' is attention-grabbing & marvelously gripping, from start to end. The narrative gets better with each-passing scene & the overall result, is top-notch! Andrew W. Marlowe's Screenplay is power-packed & captivating. Wolfgang Petersen's is stunning. Cinematography is picture-perfect. Editing is crisp. Art Design is satisfactory.Performance-Wise Ford & Oldman are Excellent. Ford plays the heroic President with effortless ease, while Oldman plays the despicable & loathsome villain with flourish. Glenn Close, as always, does a good job. Wendy Crewson & Liesel Matthews are impressive. William H. Macy is dependable, while Dean Stockwell is first-rate. Philip Baker Hall is his usual self.On the whole, 'Air Force One' is an accomplished piece of cinema. Two Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"A Touch Of A Disaster Movie Here","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Why I like it The early scenes of Gary Oldman getting into action as the gas enters the plane, then Oldman getting into the cockpit, then struggling with the pilots, then landing the plane, then colliding with trees at the airport (a touch of a disaster movie here) and then the plane lifts off again. These scenes are filmed and scored (by Jerry Goldsmith) with such energy and gusto...modern cinema does not get much better than this! The old Airport movies (1970 to 1980) never had action scenes like these.I almost view this as a sister film to - Lost In Space (1998) - as Oldman would return in that film and again make trouble for all.The whole cast of Air Force One is outstanding and this would have to be one of the last GREAT scores from Jerry Goldsmith before he passed away a few years later. "},{"Title":"A challenge....","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I just watched this one again and enjoyed it much less than I remembered from when it came out originally. The concept was great, the cast was great, the effects were great but there were so many instances that really challenged my 'suspension of disbelief' that I found myself laughing when I was supposed to be excited or scared. The script-writing seemed to challenge these fine actors (most notably Glenn Close, Dean Stockwell, and even Harrison Ford himself at times) to the point I just couldn't believe them.Ultimately, I have to give it a six but that's somewhat of a compromise as the good parts were easily worth an 8 but there were too many unbelievable moments to give it more than the 6 it gets.But that's just my 2 scents. ;) "},{"Title":"Like Ford, Love Gary )","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford is the President. Sounds a bit silly and impossible. Then even more impossible, the President's plane, Air Force One, got hijacked by a group of terrorists led by Gary Oldman. Did they pass the security really that easy? They held the passengers hostages and it is up to Ford to save the day.The action is a bit dramatic and over the top but I gotta love the rivalry between Ford and Oldman, who is so great and cute cute in a weird and non-threatening way, don't find him convincing as an villain. I admit sometimes I see movies only as my favorite actors are in them. Air Force One happens to be a good movie though.Feel some of the action's excitement wears off after Oldman leaves the scene as then it is mainly about the people getting off the plane in safety and of course they do eventually.Besides AFO, the Ford's movies that I also like are Firewall, The Fugitive, Patriot Games, Clear and Present Danger, Bladed Runner. "},{"Title":"His last real success","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Waiting for Indiana Jones IV to come to pass, it is always time to reflect on the sad state of Harrison Ford's career, and as we flip through the years it seems to me he hasn't had a bona fide hit since 1997. (2000's WHAT LIES BENEATH probably made money, but few credit Ford's presence in that thriller for its success; possibly it was a hit due to the well-tuned script and the expert direction by Robert Zemeckis. In any case Michelle Pfeiffer--another star of the 1990s whose career has gone sadly awry--deserves half the credit as well.) Otherwise it's like a list of one disaster after another. K-19 THE WIDOWMAKER? Dead in the water. Hollywood HOMICIDE? Not a bad show but the public stayed away in droves. RANDOM HEARTS? When you look up catastrophe in the dictionary you get a still from this movie. SIX DAYS SEVEN NIGHTS? Awful. WATER TO WINE (2004)? Even his fans don't know what it is! I'm not sure FIREWALL will break the curse either, it sounds like a re-tread of an earlier Ford flop called FRANTIC. So when we look back and try to find the last good patch of Harrison Ford's once invincible streak, we come up with a thump against this indisputable box office sensation, which rules the theaters world wide for a brief spell in 97. The critics thought it piffle, but it answered a need in the US public, maybe to see a strong president defying the Russians one last time. Reactionary? No two moviegoers will read its plot the same way, but there are certainly cimilarities to the FOX TV hit 24, which it foreshadowed in so many ways, even down to the canny use of amiably sinister Xander Berkeley, the husband in SAFE. And of course the death defying traumas that occur to Air Force One in both programs. Most of all, I think people long for a president who's more like James Marshall here, than the one we had in 1997 or the one we have now. He's a father figure, he's still vigorous and sexy, he's got a good sense of humor, knows his way around a gun AND he protects us from the threat of Glenn Close. AIR FORCE ONE itself was a sort of comeback project for the beleaguered Ford, whose previous films had been major disappointments--the terrible SABRINA remake and the muddled IRA thriller DEVIL'S OWN with Brad Pitt. I think at that minute we really needed Harrison Ford to start thinking about how to sustain a career. Instead he just must have said Ah Screw It and switched the remote to a then-new TV show called ALLY McBEAL. The rest is film history. "},{"Title":"a darn good action film","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" (me and my dad watch a lot of action/adventure films but this one is a complete legendary classic.)I would recommend it to anyone who likes a bit of good old fashion cheese topped action...I think that Harrison Ford is a great as non-stop-terrorist-kicking-silver-haired-action-hero- president but my favorite character is his daughter whose wise words at the end are incredibly cute.The clever turns in the story make it more interesting than your average modern action movie and it is much more satisfying!WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Decent Movie","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is decent time wasting entertainment.The plot is ridiculous and not believable in real life but Harrison Ford is great as the president and Gary Oldman is even better as the terrorist who still comes across as being sympathetic even though he is an evil murderer.The performances are strong and the script (for an unbelievable Hollywood action summer movie) is very good which makes for an exciting movie in places. The Director who also did Das Boot does a decent job but this isn't exactly Das Boot he's working with.All in all you will enjoy the movie for the performances and exciting scenes but it's nothing special beyond that and it's one of those movies that doesn't keep you thinking about it. "}{"Title":"Air Force One is 'Air Force Fun!'","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Any resemblance between President Bill Clinton and the Harrison Ford Chief Executive in Wolfgang Petersen's far-fetched, entertaining, but woefully predictable skyjacking saga Air Force One ends when Ford's fantastic First Guy starts knocking off the villains. Nevertheless, the parallels between Clinton and Marshall appear clearly obvious. Harrison Ford's President James Marshall is married to a tenacious, headstrong wife in the Hilary mode, and they have a 12-year old daughter. (So was Bill Pullman's president in Independence Day.) Unlike Clinton, President Marshall flew helicopter rescue missions in Vietnam and received a Medal of Honor. No, the filmmakers refuse to identify President James Marshall's party affiliation, which make Air Force One impartially political, while it trumpets America's anti-terrorist stance.Andrew W. Marlowe's melodramatic screenplay shows more agility than innovation. While his characters emerge as largely one-dimensional stick figures, the dimensions of their predicaments assume nothing less than cataclysmic proportions. Marlowe's script keeps Harrison Ford leaping through enough flaming hoops to fill three movies. Like several other summer blockbusters, Marlowe's script does not know when to throw in the towel. Just about everything that can happen aboard Air Force One occurs. Presumably, with the recent spate of skyjacking movies, it was only a matter of time before Hollywood appropriated both Air Force One and the President as the pulp of their fictional escapade.The movie opens in slam-bang style with an elite American commando team parachuting into Kazakhstan at night. Using the latest hi-tech gear, they kill the palace guards and abduct an adversarial Russian leader, General Radek (Jurgen Prochnow of Das Boot), who is promptly incarcerated in a Soviet hoosegow. Three weeks later in Moscow, President Marshall stipulates that the U.S. refuses to negotiate with terrorists. Meanwhile, a ruthless ultra-nationalist Radek zealot, Ivan Korshunov (Gary Oldman of True Romance), succeeds in smuggling his bogus TV news crew aboard the most secure plane in the world. A disgruntled Secret Service agent, Gibbs (Xander Berkeley of L.A. Takedown), as we later learn, helped these guys obtain their security clearance. Once the plane is airborne, Korshunov and his men commandeer it, kill the pilots, and watch helplessly s the president ejects in his escape pod. (Does anybody remember Escape from New York?) Ivan contacts the Vice President (Glenn Close) and vows to kill a hostage every half-hour until Radek walks away from prison. According to Defense Secretary Walter Dean (Dean Stockwell), Radek's release would bring down the pro-American regime in the Kremlin and bring back the Cold War, so the Russians are reluctant to set him free unless President Marshall makes the request personally for Radek's release.The filmmakers cannibalize in typical Hollywood fashion every neat idea from all the other skyjacking thrillers. Generally, Air Force One follows the formula of the Kurt Russell hit Executive Decision. Both movies start with a commando raid and then shift to terrorists hijacking a jetliner before an unconventional hero makes his entry. You can tell that Marlow evidently watch the Wesley Snipes thriller Passenger 57 for one scene. Another scene features a stunt that appeared in both Airport 75 and Cliffhanger. The president here imitates the action heroes from the Bruce Willis Die Hard franchise and the Steven Seagal Under Siege movies. Finally, the Air Force One ending should come as no surprise to any Star Trek movie veterans. Anybody who thrives on movies like an insomniac will spot these plot elements. Although Air Force One borrows heavily from other epics, the staging of the action and some new scenes in the skyjacking formula boost this opus over the rough spots.Anybody familiar with German director Wolfgang Petersen will recognize the affinity between Air Force One and his earlier classic U-boat thriller Das Boot/The Boat (1981). The casting of Das Boot star Jurgen Prochnow as the heinous General Radek aids in this comparison. Moreover, Petersen sends his highly mobile and energetic cameras plunging about the corridors of Air Force One with the same dexterity that they swept through the hull of the sub in Das Boot. Despite a connect-the-dots plot, Petersen makes every dot a fire storm of intensity. The scene where the President's jet careens wildly across the airfield in Germany and nearly crashes is pretty harrowing.Ford's presidential protagonist is basically Indiana Jones in a suit and tie. The filmmakers rely on Ford's action hero charisma to compensate for the lack of depth in his inadequately sketched head of state. Shrewdly, they shift gears to the parental side of the chief executive. Ford's best scenes occur before take-off when he asks about his favorite football game. Although Marshall emerges as a cardboard politician, it's his Die Hard courage that wreathes him with laurels. Unlike those wimpy Jack Ryan movies Patriot Games and A Clear and Present Danger, Harrison Ford's hero here kills the villains. The bad guys don't slip out of Marshall's clutches and conveniently impale themselves on sharp objects. (Remember the way the Patriot Games villain died?) Marshall runs up a body count, kills with a machine gun, snaps necks, and slugs it out with rough and tumble adversaries. Ford is one of the few male box office stars who can shed tears (when Ivan threatens to pull the trigger on his daughter) and not make it look schmaltzy. Ford manages to maintain a stiff upper lip throughout Air Force One and his scenes with bad guy Gary Oldman crackle with electricity. Ultimately, however, Ford's performance qualifies as serviceable, nothing truly special like the cop the played in The Devil's Own (1997).The real casting coup in Air Force One is Glenn Close as Vice President Kathryn Bennett. Close manages to hold her own in a room packed with veteran male character actors like Quantum Leap's Dean Stockwell who constantly bullies Close to usurp presidential authority. Although certainly not the most original skyjacking melodrama, Air Force One manages to add elements to the formula and boasts enough visceral R-rated violence to keep you distracted throughout its 124-minute running time. "},{"Title":"Fasten Your Seatbealts","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" An Oscar-worthy film presents a complex plot which can attempt to fool the audience. It also presents excellent dialogue, characters and for this particular genre, action. Air Force One has all of these elements, except for one, and that would be a complex plot.Am I upset with Air Force One, no I am not. It is the second best film of 1997, beat out of the number one spot by Tomorrow Never Dies. I am actually pleased that it does not have a complex plot; it gives more time to focus on the action. It is also one less thing to really worry about because all I cared about was the president's plane being hijacked.Harrison Ford plays James Marshall, the president of the United States of America. Gary Oldman plays Ivan Korshunov, a Russian rebel who hijacks Air Force One with his own team of henchmen impersonating a news crew from Moscow. Ivan wants a former Soviet leader, General Ivan Radek released from prison with hopes to create a new U.S.S.R. Now that is not complex at all, it is actually pretty simple to follow. Of course we, the audience, already know what is going to happen with Harrison and the bad guys. He leads them through suspenseful action scenes, some involving visual effects.I had some problems the visual effects in this film. It reminded me of Kindergarden and I was the teacher. It is like when a student comes up to the teacher and says Look at my family drawing. While looking at it, you overlook the stick figures and the messy colouring and still give it an A for effort. That is how I can describe the visual effects for this film.However, visual effects or no visual effects, the film is still a masterpiece. Wolfgang Petersen (The Neverending Story) has really outdone himself with this film. Because of his talented directing skills Air Force One flies at high velocity with a perfect score of ten. I do not think we will ever see a movie like this again in movie history. "},{"Title":"Cool! Not 2 Bad.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The part I seem to hate the most was when SS Agent Gibbs unraveled his true colors to President Marshall. He was either impatient or really a terrorist all this time, or life. The Secretary of Defense should have known that he had to free General Radek for the sake of his family, even though he was a tyrant, making the world respect terrorism as surprise gifts to unsuspecting victims! I mean he's a joke! If I was an adviser for the President, I'd say a loving wife, daughter and many other lives are more important than mere grace. Ivan Korshunov was a villain I won't be able to forget. All a terrorist does to a victim is force him/her to make a complete disgrace of one's self. I can now see why it's wrong to challenge a person's authority. "},{"Title":"Need be...Mr. President can get tough.","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wolfgang Peterson directs highly talented Harrison Ford as the President of the United States. Pres. James Marshall continues America's stance to not negotiate or honor any terrorists demands. The President with the First Lady and their daughter are aboard Air Force One when it is high-jacked by Russian operatives. Cold as ice, Ivan Korshunov(Gary Oldman), posing as the leader of a TV crew, begins taking control of the plane with his Commie comrades. A worrisome Vice President Kathryn Bennett(Glenn Close)in D.C. tries to cope with the situation. Tension mounts, nails are bitten, hearts start thumping as riveting action escalates. A banged and bruised President proves to hang with the toughest and heroically regains charge of the plane. A finale that will keep you on the edge of your seat.This strong cast also features William H. Macey, Wendy Crewson, Paul Guilfoyle, Dean Stockwell, Liesel Matthews, Donna Bullock, Michael Ray Miller and Xander Berkeley. "},{"Title":"Popcorntastic Petersen","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There's something thrilling about a film which you expect to do all it promises, but then does that with style. Style in the case of this playground thriller comes bespoke with Harrison Ford, and as a surprise extra with a Gary Oldman baddie. The film is well cast in depth too with the possible exception of the Russian President under- and Glenn Close's Vice President over-cooking it.Propaganda &#150; it's a mixed bag. You can see it coming and laugh it off as hot air, but secretly you love its straightforward, homeboy sentiment. It's probably harder to pull this sort of 'straight' patriotic action-flick off well than something with more of a satirical biscuit base (Roland Emerson, Paul Verhoeven). I enjoyed this though and suggest you see it too if you've got nothing to do or, like mine, your country's just been attacked by terrorists. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good action","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film was a good action film that will hold your attention from the beginning. I enjoyed every minute of it even though the outcome will never be in doubt. I think the acting was really good as well. The terrorists seemed real and had a specific goal that the audience knows from the beginning of the movie. It's not just a movie where there's alot of terrorists doing terrible things and we never understand why. This is Harrison Ford's last good movie to date. It's alot of fun.don't's vote 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie until . . .","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" . . . . the last twenty minutes.  I generally like action movies as long as there isn't tons of blood and guts and killing.  This movie delivers.  Unfortunately, this movie also delivers too muchAmerican patriotism.  I wish Hollywood would realize that most of the people who watch their movies don't live in the United States. I'm glad Americans love their country, but the rest of the world doesn't always need to see it on film.  I wish they would have toned down the patriotic stuff just a little bit.  POSSIBLE SPOILERTake for example, the pilot telling the president he did good and then saluting him.  It made me want to gag!  I felt the last twenty minutes were a glorified commercial to show the world how good the U.S.A. is.Without the last twenty minutes, I give this movie an 8 out of 10.  If you include the last twenty minutes, I give this movie a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is an amazing movie. It is action packed and I never realised how a terrosist/president film could be so good. Harrison ford is purely first class and that guy plays a very clever and energetic president.I think that the lead terrorist is also very good and that the whole film film is edge of your seat stuff. ONE TO WATCH AND NOT TO BE MISSED. I would see it a hundred times... "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford Can Deliver Better Action Than Those Indiana Jones Films","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford, an actor who will probably forever have a left profile for Han Solo and a right profile for Indiana Jones didn't really get any recognition for what I feel is his greatest action film lead performance of all. This 1997 Columbia Pictures release casts Ford as the U.S. President who had recently announced to the American people that he would no longer negotiate with terrorists. This gives a crew of Russian terrorists led by Gary Oldman the perfect opportunity to strike. As the President prepares for a seemingly peaceful flight on his private airline, Air Force One, Oldman seizes control and begins a hostage crisis. He plans to kill one hostage every half hour until Ford agrees to give in to his demands of granting the rights to release their jailed leader. Now Ford is torn between his loyalties and it all leads to an exciting climactic battle between Ford and Oldman. Ford's performance is top notch and beyond anything he has ever done before in films. This gem of an action/suspense/thriller deserves better attention than what it had originally received. Check it out even if you have never been one of Ford's faithful fans. There's more action here than in those comparably weak Indiana Jones films. "},{"Title":"what a surprise!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I didn't have high expectations for this movie when it came out. I thought Harrison Ford was getting too old for this kind of thing. Man, was I wrong! This is definitely one of the better action/thrillers that I have ever seen. You may have to ignore logic at times, but you get rewarded with terrific action sequences, and tense acting scenes from a great cast. Gary Oldman is a terrific bad guy as always. 3/4 "}{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Apart from the cheesey special effects, Air Force One is one cool movie.I emphasize it is only a movie, place your mind to one side and strap your self in for a ride.  Recommendation The movie is that good, I went out and brought the movie.  "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was good. Ok i admit it have a little touch of Indiana Jones but nevertheless it´s a good movie to spent two hours. Don´t take it for real because one of the parts are just a little unbelievable and you can see the bluescreen-tricks (specially that one, while the president (Ford) is flew in the open air, while the Air Force One crashed in the sea) but i really enjoyed this film. 3 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"High flying action.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This high-flying action adventure takes you on a suspense filled ride of presidential proportions (sorry for the pun).Harrison Ford plays President Jim Marshall, a politician of integrity and honour (so, this is a fictional tale. The writers can be given a little credibility license can't they?) who must follow through with his pledge to not give in to terrorism in the face of a terrorist plane take-over.The villain is well played by Gary Oldman who is quite believable as a Russian radical hell-bent on releasing a political leader incarcerated with the help of the US.The action takes Ford throughout the plane, taking out the baddies one by one. The tension on the ground as the cabinet try and work out who should be in control is a little light, not really applying a strong sub-plot which might have been an extra twist at the end. The action is reasonably predictable but, hey, if it were any other way we would be miffed! I mean the President of the United States has to triumph after-all!The action is clean, the tension crisp, the characters enjoyable. This is one of those films which you can enjoy seeing the good guys get even in the end, and even pass it off as patriotism.Air Force One... Air Force Won. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest thrill rides of all time!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  AIR FORCE ONE, in my opinion, is one of the greatest thrill rides of all time! I was  scared to death by a little of the violence. When President Marshall (Harrison Ford) said, Let's go to Barbados, I laughed a little. If I were in that hijacking situation, I would be absolutely terrified. I thought that Vice-President Bennett (Glenn Close) looked beautiful in her outfit. Korshunov (Gary Oldman) was good, too. Good, but kind of scary. If you like high-powered action movies, this is the one to see. To all you Harrison Ford fans who have not seen this movie, I recommend it. When you see it, buckle your seat belts and hold on tight for a ride of non-stop action and thrills. "},{"Title":"terrific","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford makes one heck of a president, one who can fightback in more ways than one. The drama, action, and intensitynever let up for a second in this powerful film about hijackers whotake over the president's plane. You will be kept on the edge ofyour seat as Ford and the rest of the impressive cast try and wardthem off. In a word EXCELLENT. I loved it, and I'm sure you willtoo.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"very underrated","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  i think this is one of the best action movies i saw, it has suspense, drama, comedy, etc. also it has great acting by harrison ford as the president, and gary oldman as the terrorist, this is an action movie you will not regret to see. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Another great movie...","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I just liked this movie... The reason ? well, easy... my favourite actor is Harrison Ford. He played very well. The only thing which was somehow confusing was the pure American spirit from this movie. Why the vicepresident didn't sign that paper and dismiss the president ? I hope it won't ever happen, but in real conditions that paper would be signed and the president would be revoked. Any way, even if its an older movie, get the DVD and watch it, it's much better than many movies from this or the last year.Congrats go out for the crew who made the sound effects and the music. I would like to see other movies like this. "},{"Title":"Pure action","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Why can't our president kick this much ***? Air Force One seemed like a pure action movie to me. And I loved it. Some parts could have been a little more believeable, but it was still very fun and entertaining.The acting in this movie was good. Harrison Ford, as always, did an excellent job as the star of this movie. Gary Oldman, the greatest movie bad guy of all time, did not disappoint. It was cool to see Glenn Close as the vice president, keeping the blood-sucking politicians at bay. Another great performance, although not given enough credit, is from William H. Macy, who is one of my favorite of the lesser known actors.The storyline is fair, but nothing special or too original. The only difference is in this case, the president is not a hostage but the man fighting the terrorists. Terrorists manage to hijack Air Force One and kidnap many important people, the presidents kids, some politicans, some secret service guys and a bunch of extras they threw in to fill up the plane. They thought the president had escaped, but the truth was he stayed behind to fight the terrorists, retake the plane and save his family.This movie is a great action flick which I enjoyed a lot. It's not meant to be ground-breaking or anything like that, it's just meant to be enjoyed. So go out and enjoy it! "},{"Title":"A Slam Bang Action Thriller","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is a slam bang action thriller that starts building suspense with it's first scene and it doesn't let up for 2 hours. Harrison Ford is perfectly cast as the rough and tumble president, Gary Oldman also gives an intense performance as an evil-eyed russian terrorist. The film has slick and very clever action sequences the are a blast to watch. Whether you like action films or not this is a must see.***1/2 "},{"Title":"Best of the Harrison Ford movies yet!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie, because it shows a patriotic President who is a family man, and loves his country and doing what is right in both areas. Harrison Ford has all of the Charisma to play the role, and did a fine job of it. It is my favorite of all of his great movies.  10 out of 10  "}{"Title":"Exciting non-stop action, thrills and drama!","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A very well done action movie. Action movies are more than a bunch of people running around fighting and shooting at each other- they should have a good story. This movie has one.The president makes a dramatic decision not to negotiate with terrorists at any cost, but what shall he do when his own family and crew are taken hostages?The acting is perfect with an all-star cast, the action is thrilling and the special effects are also great. The movie always develops from one scene to another with more than one climax..! The only bad thing is the over the top American patriotism with so much bravery. I'm not sure if this president was using cigars with interns, but he's really brave and selfless. I wonder what Clinton would have done in that situation... "},{"Title":"Great, patriotic, action-packed film!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First of all, has anyone noticed that all the bad reviews are not from Americans? Second, Air Force One is probably one of the best action films I've ever seen. Ford does a great job of playing the President, as does Close doing a great job of being VP. I don't care what any of the other reviewers think, but the special effects are great, because we know good special effects when we see them. Oldman also does a wonderful and believable job of being the evil Russian. Overall, this is kind of film that makes you feel great to be an American! I give it an A! "},{"Title":"Tied with Face/Off as the best action movie of '97","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For some reason, people liked Air Force One better than the other movies of '97. I finally saw it, and this was a #1 action movie. Harrison Ford was great as the president. He proved to be a great action hero. This was really cool, because the president is least likely to be an action hero. Action heros are usually cops or normal people. This was a change. Air Force One is about a terrorist takeover, but it doesn't rip off Die Hard. It was original in it's own way. It wasn't all about the takeover. There is also a lot of strong drama in this movie. Gary Oldman played a totally vicious man in this movie, but every time he did something bad, he would justify his actions.What he says obviously doesn't give him an excuse for killing people, but he said it in a strong way. The action scenes were intense. The fight scenes with Harrison Ford and the terrorists were brutal. Every time I heard a punching sound, it was like Woa! That sounded cool! The special effects were also great. Especially in a scene where F/A 18s are fighting a group of MIGs. THis is a great movie filled with non-stop action, great acting, drama "},{"Title":"This is an awesome movie, with great performances by many talented actors!","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite movies! Harrison Ford is a wonderful actor and he does a superb job in this film! I would vote for him as President any day! "},{"Title":"The BEST of '97","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was the best film of '97!  I think this should of been number 1 last year.  I thought that it was going to win all the awards, but then Titantic came out oh well. "},{"Title":"This is a real jingoistic dog of a movie","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" From the first scene where American and Russian 'special forces' take out everything they point their guns at with a single shot and the bad guys couldn't hit a barn door with a banjo, through the taking of the jet when the 'tersts' spray gun fire around like confetti at a wedding and yet no windows on the aircraft is broken nor the seal of the skin compromised to the final toe-curlingly bad comment from the Prez 'get off my plane!' In fact this comment has become a bit of a running joke between my friends whenever Harrison Ford's name comes up. And he doesn't let us down in this mess of a film - he's his usual drab and unimpressive self and the rest of the cast struggle to look as if they can be bothered. I have to say that in these post-Iraq War days when we all know that things just aren't ever this simple and that when guns are used people die, all to easily, on both sides and that being a uperpower doesn't automatically mean you can just take out whoever you want at will. All this now results in a film grates even more than it did in 1997. "},{"Title":"AIR FORCE ONE is a wall-to-wall, action-packed blast.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My Take Packed with enough thrills to have you clutching for a safety belt.(This is an extension of the review I wrote in February 2007)Who knew politics could be kick-ass? AIR FORCE ONE may have been done before, but not nearly as thrilling, daring and often plausible. Like any action film of the summer, you'll gladly let go of your grips with reality in favor of non-stop, grab-on-to-your-seat excitement. AIR FORCE ONE is one of the best action pictures of it's decade, and the best one of its year. I really liked Harrison Ford here, even in his later days. Gary Oldman acted like a really crazy madman in the film, but I think he was his role. The special-effects were great and Jerry Goldsmith provides a terrific and often grand action score. We clearly have Wolfgang Petersen to thank for making AIR FORCE ONE more thrilling than it might have. Petersen takes the familiar cat-and-mouse thriller, takes it to a secluded surroundings of a baggage deck and throws in white-knuckle thrills and dreadful tension (never has gunfire been so frightening) to stir his audience expectations. There are some moments of implausibility concerned of course, but you won't have the liking for a little nitpicking while your busy having the most fun time you will ever have on an American action movie. Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"In my top three best movies of all time","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was on the edge of my seat until they said Our Plane Is Now Air Force One, Harrison Ford was amazing, but I think that Gary Oldman really flew the movie till the end, I think that Harrison Ford's Performance is summed up in my favorite line in the film, i mean how he says it shows how good he was, when he pulls Oldman close to him and says GET OFF MY PLANE and pulls the mans parachute sending him to his death. WOW WOW WOW this is one of the best Thrillers ever made, right up there with The Poseidon Adventure and The French Connection, ironically The Poesidon Adventure and Air Force One are both underrated, they should both be on the top 250 greatest movies ever. "},{"Title":"Very intense and fun!","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was one of the best films I have ever seen. This film is full of great drama and intense action. Harrison Ford does a great job of portraying an American president the way we would all like him to be. Good character and not afraid to stand up to the bad guys. What I'm finding makes a really great film is the existence of a great evil character for the good guys to fight. The Green Goblin from Spiderman 1 comes to mind. This film delivers that on many levels. There are some very nasty characters in this movie. These bad guys who gain access to Air Force one make for some gut wrenching scenes at times. One of the fun things about this movie was the constant ups and downs you have to endure as the presidents plane is attacked and controlled by terrorists. I've watched Air Force One many times and I always get emotional. The films plot has taken on a whole new meaning since 911. I highly recommend it and I know you will enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Good action movie.. and that's about it","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In the sky over Eastern Europe -1990s. After a joint-operation between Russia and the USA to arrest General Radek, a Communist dictator who had started a genocide in Kajasthan, American President James Marshall goes to Moscow and gives a stirring speech outlining the USA's new Zero-tolerance policy with respect to terrorism. Peace isn't merely the absence of conflict, but the presence of justice, he says. On the flight home, terrorists take over Air Force One and keep the passengers (including the President's wife and daughter) hostage. Their leader Yvan Korshunov plans to execute one hostage every half-hour unless/until General Radek is released. However, the President is a former Medal of Honor winner, so the terrorists may be in for a surprise... After 'The American President', here comes another President-loving movie &#150;but this time, the President does not have the time or the inclination for romance. He is the perfect symbol of Great America and its values &#150;family, invincibility, power. Interestingly, there is to a certain extent just a little objectivity (You murdered 100,000 Iraqis to save a nickel a gallon on gas. Don't lecture me on the rules of war, says Korshunov). But mind you, these words of truth are said by the bad guy&#133; Ah well, this and the technical mistakes aside, it is a good action movie. "}{"Title":"One of the finest action films ever made!","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Before I start my review, I must say the Ford is a great actor, and still hasn't aged ever since films like 'Patriot Games' and 'Raiders of the Lost Ark'. He makes a great president, he's got my vote! This film really astounded me, it has some great action and great fight scenes! My one complaint about the film is the stupid special effects, don't get me wrong, I found most of the special effects to be amazing and clever (when the plane is in the air), but by the time the plane hits the water, the effects are crummy, and just plain awful! I have no idea what on earth happened during post-production for this film!The basic plot follows the President, who's on his way back to America from Russia where he had just assisted in capturing an evil Russian general, but on his plane Air Force One, Russian terrorists who pose as a Russian news crew hijack the plane. They originally think that the president left the plane on the escape pod, but they discover near the end of the film that the president stayed on the plane, and used stealth to hide himself in the lower section of the plane, and take out the terrorists one by one!The acting in the film is awesome! Ford and Oldman are pure stars! They both act to their finest, and they give the film and extra touch of professionalism! The one complaint I have about casting is the president's wife, she seems like a hopeless old hag, who is too overprotective of her daughter. You would think that the president would be able to pick up some really hot chicks! The rest of the supporting cast, like William H. Macy and Glenn Close are awesome! Close was so realistic as the vice president, and like Ford she's got my vote! Macy was certainly one of those rare actors that you don't find in films these days, and if you do, it's on rare occasions!All in all, 'Air Force One' makes one great night out at the movies, which may have its flaws in cast and in special effects, but it's one of those fun films you don't find very often these days!9/10, a great film! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest thrill rides of all time!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" AIR FORCE ONE, in my opinion, is one of the greatest thrill rides of all time! I was really scared by a little of the violence. When President Marshall (Harrison Ford) said, Let's go to Barbados, I laughed a little. If I were in that hijacking situation, I would be really terrified. I thought that Vice President Bennett (Glenn Close) looked beautiful in her outfit. Korshunov (Gary Oldman) was good, too. Good, but a little scary. If you like high-powered action movies, this is the one to see. To all you Harrison Ford fans who have not seen this movie, I highly recommend it. When you see it, buckle your seat belts and hold on tight for a ride of non-stop action and thrills. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all.","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. Harrison Ford was great as usual. I got goosebumps when the traitor was still there, waiting for the moment when Harrison Ford would give the traitor exactly what he deserved. This movie had great effects and nail biting action scenes. It was interesting to see Glenn Close in a different kind of role from her usual eccentric self. I gave it a 9 instead of a 10 because the outside of the plane blue screen was a little off and it bugged me. But hey it was made in 1997, today's effects are much less noticeable. But other than that i enjoyed every minute of it. Paul Guilfoyle looks so small compared to the man we know and love as Captain Brass. "},{"Title":"A Hell Of A Ride !!!!","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One came out just a few months before Titanic in 1997 and up to then had the best special effects in my opinion! Exciting jet fighters action sequences and aging movie star Harrison Ford is believable as the President of the USA, Gary Oldman is excellent as the lunatic terrorist....great action sequences.The only flaw is Glenn Close, miscast as the Vice president of the US. The score adds to the suspense of this action thriller a must on widescreen DVD!I can watch this movie over and over again and still get chills up and down my spine!!!!This is one of my favorite movies of all time! "},{"Title":"the president is insecure","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The plane crashes at the end. And when it does, you'll be confused. You'll wonder, What's this Playstation game that's suddenly appeared on the screen? Why is an airplane animation, rendered by my little brother with Poser, taking place before my eyes, when I should be seeing the spectacular end of an edgy action film? It is one of the worst CG effects ever produced by human beings with good intentions.Harrison Ford plays the dream president. Well, I don't know about that...he's probably only 49% of the US population's idea of a dream president. And his Vice President Glenn Close will have you in stitches of laughter as she utters stone-faced lines like, IS THE PRESIDENT SECURE?Also, watch for the climactic scene where Harry Ford says, Get off my plane. Be careful, the line is likely to blow out the speakers on your home theater system, because for some reason, it's louder than every other sound in the movie. When I saw this film in the theater, an elderly woman died when that line was uttered. Apparently the sudden fluctuation of sound waves interfered with her brain impulses and her bodily functions just quit simultaneously.Gary Oldman is the master of accents. He should be in every movie.All in all, Air Force One is too patriotic for me. The one-sided depiction of the bad guys, coupled with punching-yourself-in-the-crotch moments of stupidity (like the part where President Ford cuts the green wire because it isn't red, white or blue) made me squirm with jingoism-induced discomfort. I wish this movie really were the Die Hard on a plane everybody makes it out to be. Die Hard on a plane would be awesome. But Die Hard is not a movie about the heroics of the American government.Look at all the ellipses in the review before mine. "},{"Title":"Yes,it's Die Hard in the air,but it's still good.","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" At the risk of sounding like a broken record,this film is more or less a remake of Die Hard,only the skyscraper is replaced with an airplane, and our ordinary tough guy cop is replaced with the leader of the free world.Knowing this fact,it's still a good film.Harrison Ford makes a very believable president,and Gary Oldman a very convincing baddie.Although you know where the plot is going,something about it compels you to continue watching.The very fact that they are thousands of miles in the air grips me personally because I am not very fond of heights,and I found myself gripping my chair arms very tightly as a result.This is basically a run of the mill action flick,but still good nonetheless. "},{"Title":"It'll Keep You on the Edge of Your Seat","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie a number of times. I bought it on VHS and then again on DVD. It's so exciting that I still get cold feet even though I know the end. Harrison Ford is great in this movie. I don't care that some folks say there are many technical errors about Air Force One (the airplane itself). It's still a real heart pounder. "},{"Title":"A good escapist action flick - spoilers","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This may not be my favorite Harrison Ford movie but it comes extremely close. Yes it is overly patriotic, formulaic but, who cares. As long as you get involved in the story and care about these characters this movie can be a good escapist action flick. I wanted to see the president kick the terrorists, I cried when the first family was rescued. As long as you take it as it is, a good escapist action flick, there is a good movie to be had. "},{"Title":"you'll be on the edge of your seat, guarenteed","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  i've never seen a movie this thrilling, this flick is above all other hijacked-airplane-style movies and simply rocks; harrison ford is awesome and so are william H. macy and gary Oldman(wish we had a president this cool, but that's pretty far off) "},{"Title":"Great plot, acting, casting, effects and soundtrack! A++ Film!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is the definition of a great film.  It starts fast and keeps going right up till the superb ending sequence(if you haven't seen it I won't spoil it for you).  Wolfgang Petersen has directed many great films but this work is by far his greatest film.  He deserves a 11 on a scale of 10.  I have watched this film many times and have yet to find a major fault in it. The acting(Harrison Ford was Awesome!), casting, cinematography, special effects, screenplay(Andrew Marlow needs to write more movies) and the impressive score by Jerry Goldsmith all combine together to form a film masterpiece that deserved a lot more credit then it got(What was the academy thinking handing Titanic all those Oscars!!).  The bottom line is if you haven't seen it rent it today.  This is a must see film!!! "}{"Title":"Boooooring!","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this with my parents and I was so bored watching it.For one thing the basic idea is so ridiculous, that the president is going to single handedly take over a hijacked plane and kill all the hijackers is just stupid. That is right up there with Independence Day where the president flies the lead jet to fight off the aliens. Just so very, very stupid! Gary Oldman is awesome but this movie is just pretty much by the numbers bad guy stuff, he is really good but it's just a big budget Hollywood action movie so there isn't much to work with. I'm sure he got paid more than most other movies he did so you can't blame him.Harrison Ford is as good as usual, not a great actor but good at what he does.The characters are pretty believable it is just the basic story that is not. I like that in the end the bad guy comes off pretty sympathetic which is unlike most movies. More laughs and pfff!'s of disbelief than most movies though. "},{"Title":"Good action adventure epic soars through the sky.","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The movies plot itself is highly improbable, and there are a lot of factual errors, but do you want a documentary or do ya want to see a cool action movie featuring a butt kicking president played by the guy who did Han Solo? What we have here are some terrorist from Russia I think (why are terrorist from countries that don't actually have gripes with us in the movies) taking over air force one with president and family in tow. Of course, the president does not get captured, but instead eludes the terrorist and complicates matters for them as he frees some of the hostages and instead of leaving himself stays to get his family back. The movie seems to run a little long in places and there are a couple of pointless plot points (the whole Dean Stockwell character), overall though and mainly it is a cool action movie in the same vein as Die Hard or other movies where you have the one free guy making trouble for the bad guys. Speaking of bad guys, Gary Oldman is pretty good here as the head bad guy, so is most of the cast of this flick. Harrison Ford is usually good in anything so he fits right in here and makes for a very heroic albeit unrealistic president. "},{"Title":"Another Winner Starring Harrison Ford","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is another edge-of-your seat action-thriller that works due to a smart screenplay and great direction by Wolfgang Petersen.  Gary Oldman leads a band of Russian terrorists as they take over the titled aircraft in the hopes of capturing the president (Ford) and forcing the United States to free a political prisoner.  However, Ford eludes the terrorists and now he is the one person on the plane that can save the other passengers.  All the performers do very well here.  Along with Ford and Oldman, Glenn Close, Dean Stockwell, and William H. Macy are all great in supporting roles.  A fine film overall from the action genre.  4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"It's about the plane, the president, and the passion of his dedication to family and country.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is a striking example of what is good, true and noble in the governance of the United States, and the antithesis of the idealism it holds. Harrison Ford is commanding even when apparently subject to abuse at the hands of the terrorists. An excellent supporting cast takes this movie into the realm of the great ones. It is beautiful in it's idealism and yet punishing in it's realism.  "},{"Title":"No words can describe this except ......","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Recently I obtained A copy of Air Force One starring Harrisson Ford and as I watched it I became apart of the movie .... No movie has grabbed me into the events as to what happens as did air force one. A superb job all the way around ... It shows that no Trista can mess with the United States because we have control ... We are dominant and we will never give up to defend our country's freedom because we are all united in a great country.... If any of you have any doubts on America as I did, watch this movie and see what happens when people try to take advantage of us ... I believe that nobody will ever take advantage of us because we are believers, we are leaders, we are Americans. "},{"Title":"Das Boot this ain't","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Very slick and visual, but about as deep as an MTV video.  Given the resources available to the people making the film and the talent they assembled they have little to show for it (artistically that is; I'm sure they laughed all the way to the bank).  Definitely a picture whose whole is far smaller than the sum of its parts.   I gave it a 6, and would recommend passing it by in the video store. "},{"Title":"Great Action, Great Movie","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One. This was the first ever action film that I ever saw as a kid, and I have loved it ever since. It was the film that introduced me to two of my all time favorite actors, Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman, and introduced me to a kick-ass quality of movies which I compared to this.The story entails a band of Russian terrorists, led by the always brilliant and cunning Gary Oldman, sneaking aboard Air Force One, the president of the United State's personal aircraft. The president, played expertly by Harrison Ford, stays aboard to do combat with the terrorist in the bowels (baggage deck) of the airplane. It is kind of just Die Hard on Air Force One but I still think its good.I have to mention that this movie is directed by Wolfgang Petersen, the same man who gave us Das Boot, one of the greatest films ever made. He knows how to direct his actors with dignity and make them seem very real given these circumstances (except Poseidon that was a bad movie) The action scenes are very convincing, especially the mid-air rescue at the end of the movie, as well as the hand to hand combat that Ford engages in.The performances are absolutely phenomenal in this film. Harrison Ford gives us a President who goes with his gut on the new policy he gives at the beginning of the movie, and who will never leave his family to die, unlike everyone else who would bolt. Then there is Gary Oldman. Good God is this guy brilliant. His character Ivan is one of the best villains ever put to movies. He's a patriot, he's mean, he's tender about his past, he's imposing, and he is just menacing. Oldman is one of the best actors ever and when you put him with Harrison Ford, the chemistry between hero and villain is out of this world. Glenn Close rounds out as the iron willed Vice President who will still believe in the president even while the others aren't so sure given the predicament.Like Mary Poppins, this film introduced me to the great world of cinema and inspired me to become a filmmaker at a young age. There have been others as I have grown up, but this and the other movie I just mentioned are the two that got me rolling. A movie with good pacing, zippy action, and phenomenal acting, this is one of the best. "},{"Title":"Give a mouse a cookie....","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The President goes to Moscow and gives a speech outlining the USA's new Zero- tolerance policy with respect to terrorism. On the flight home, terrorists take over Air Force One, and take the passengers, including his wife and daughter, hostage. The terrorists plan to execute one hostage every half-hour until their demands are met. However, the President is Harrison Ford, a former Medal of Honour winner.....How can anyone hate this movie, if you suspend your disbelief for two hours and try to ignore the blatant patriotism? Its Die Hard on a plane (again), but with Harrison Ford as The President of The USA. The pitch must have been amazing. Its a no brainier. I cannot think of anyone better for the role, and the casting of Oldman is genius, because at the time, thanks to Leon, The Fifth Element, and True Romance, he was the go to guy for playing the villain, plus he's British, and we all know that Brits are the best Bad Guys (according to Hollywood).Yes it's a silly film, and the script is cringeworthy (get off my plane is worthy of Schwarzennegar), but the action is solid, Ford will never be better, and Oldman is brilliant, even thought there is one line he spouts in a cockney accent.And for a two hour movie, it goes at a hectic pace, even when we go through the old round the table stuff with the VP and Dean Stockwell looking serious, like you do in all these types of movies.Turn off your brains for a couple of hours, and you will be in for a treat... "},{"Title":"A great film with numerous possibilities","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I love the film. Great idea from the writers and wise casting decision. Harrison Ford plays a good role here in addition to his previous roles like Han Solo, Indiana Jones, Dr. Richard Kimble and Jack Ryan, etc. During one of my surfing time in the net, I've found out that the Jack Ryan character became president of the United States so I've watched Air Force One again. How I wished the writers of this film collaborated with Tom Clancy to use the Jack Ryan character for their film. The film was already great, it would become super great if Jack Ryan was the main character but just like what I've said earlier great idea from the writers of this film.Another possibility for this film is a sequel. I've just watched White House Down last week. What a great film also. I've thought to use the characters from Air Force One particularly President James Marshall in that film. It would have been a great team up. Channing Tatum and Harrison Ford. Jaime Foxx also portrayed a good president there.For the conclusion, Air Force One is a good film. Worthy of preservation and accolades.I should have been a writer long ago.Air Force One starring Harrison Ford as President James Marshall (President Jack Ryan)Air Force One part two (White House Down)Opening lines for the trailerFirst his plane was hijacked, now near the end of his presidency, his house has been trespassed. But this time he is not alone.....Harrison Ford as President James Marshall (President Jack Ryan) and Channing Tatum in a sequel to Air Force OneWhite House Down "},{"Title":"Mr president'","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" just loved this movie,, first off ain't Gary Oldman the perfect bad azz for this movie,, Harrisson Ford delivers the knockout punch as the president,, and Glen Close as the VP,, very good touch, the president is left with a choice, either release a very bad man from a foreign prison or lose life on Air Force Once,, I don't imagine Obama would be fighting terrorists on a plane.. oops I voted for him,, o well.. so you have someone playing for the other side, and for awhile it's a guessing game as to who that might be,, I loved all the action in this movie,, you had gun play, fist fights,, explosions, a little bit of mystery thrown your way,, all in all I cant' find that much wrong with the movie at all and if I do it escapes me at the moment,, in a way you kinda root for our Russian cold war villain ,, kinda felt sorry for him in a way.. thought this was a great Harisson Ford movie,, way to go. "}{"Title":"tense-fast phased-gripping-must watch it  for ford aka president in action...","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i have read-heard about this movie many times but never tried to watch it until again knowing about it here..!i read reviews checked information about in net and found its watchable...after watching(its my first film of Harrison ford film to watch)... Harrison ford taken this movie on his shoulders ..!!as a American president he's perfect cast and hope he may real in one day..!! as Arnold as gvrnr..!!film is very tense the moment after hijack -tehre are some dirty games- tricks-politics in film when they know they have to take a decision in quick...((a amused to see a president fighting like a soldier...!! but as a film we can excuse that...overall well made film... some scenes are breathtaking..best stunts... some tense scenes... overall a best movie...watch it now...i give it 10/10it deserves... "},{"Title":"An Intense, Suspenseful, Action-Packed Thriller","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Air Force One is an impressive film. It has a plot that at first glance could be interpreted as the set-up for a cheesy action movie, but in fact it actually works pretty well.The plot centres around the American President, played by Harrison Ford (Star Wars, Raiders of the Lost Ark, Blade Runner). His plane, Air Force One, is hijacked by a group of terrorists, led by Gary Oldman (Harry Potter).Both Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman deliver some great performances. Gary Oldman is very terrifying as the leader of a group of terrorists, a tough, nasty man who will stop at nothing to get what he wants, as shown by his method of persuasion until the Government gives in to their demands, he will hold everyone aboard hostage and execute one of them every thirty minutes.Harrison Ford also delivers a fine performance as the President of the United States, a former soldier who finds himself trying to save everyone aboard the plane. The plot is very well-written. Most of the story takes place on an airplane, and as a result it has that strange claustrophobic element that is common in submarine movies.Overall this is a very good film, and I'd definitely recommend this film to anyone who enjoys suspenseful thrillers, or any fans of Harrison Ford. "},{"Title":"Now could Obama do this...no way!","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After leaving a conference in Russia, some bad guys posing as journalists board the Air Force One with the president and much of his staff. They have an inside guy and these Russian baddies take the plane hostage, claiming to kill a passenger every half hour until their leader is released from prison, but Han Solo and Indian Jones are both on board so thats not gonna happen.OK so maybe not, but Harrison Ford does a great job in this action thriller. I have seen this film several times and it was always a nice film to set through. Lots of kills and action, and lots of great actors and good direction. Oldman plays a great bad guy and it is just a fun little film for action or thriller/suspense lovers.Wolfgang Peterson is a good director and he has some tricky shots here but pulls them off well. Jerry Goldsmith's score is pretty good too, hard to believe Randy Newman was once attached, he should stick to Disney films. Jerry isn't too over the top and I thought it worked out just fine.Acting wise we have a great cast. Harrison Ford as the president and I am so glad he got the part, it was written with Kevin Costner in mind but he didn't take it because he was working on The Postman...he kind of sucks anyway. Glenn Close did great as the vice president, Gary Oldman made a great bad guy too. Other key players included Phillip Baker Hall, Bill Smitrovich, Andrew Divoff, Xander Berkeley, Dean Stockwell, Glenn Morshower and William H. Macy.Some of the effects during the crash were kinda bad, but all and all it was a great film. 4/10 stars. "},{"Title":"So are we led to believe that the U.S. Government does everything right? I don't care, the movie is solid entertainment!.","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is what I call solid action entertainment in cinema. Air Force One delivers expectations for those who enjoy great f/x, thrills, non-stop action, kickass villains, a brave hero that is guided by moral correctness and h is abilities as an ex-soldier, intense political disputes, and best of all, a solid plot.The production values are an example of how Hollywood can deliver quality products and that big budget can be well used.Harrison Ford delivers a badass intense performance. He portrays an ex Nam soldier who has a fierce temper and will fight for his country and family. I know, it's way too clichéd but I can understand the situation under the view of an ex soldier.The patriotic message is authentic and I totally bought it. Hey, I'm not pro-war but let's keep in mind that this movie is directed for those who enjoy terrorist attacks in cinema.The political situations hooked me in mainly because it deals with terrorism, hostages, a fanatic terrorist who will give his life for his Utopia nation. I wanted to see more from Razek.Gary Oldman is just brilliant and although his character is a crazy extremist, it doesn't mean he can't be creepy. Excellent! The score is great and works perfect for the movie.Wolfgang Petersen demonstrates again that he's the man for creating thrilling and quality action films.Great for what it is. "},{"Title":"A Fine Action/Thriller","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Having gone digging through an old box of my VHS tapes the other day I came across this 1997 movie. I remember receiving this as a Christmas gift when I was around fourteen and I enjoyed then but wondered how well it might hold up now that I was older. The answer, surprisingly enough, was rather well.For one thing it has a good cast. Harrison Ford makes the potentially unbelievable role of President/action hero seem believable. Ford handles the action sequences well and helps get the action hero side of the equation seem real. Ford then brings some acting talent forward as well as he comes across believably as the President of the united States in scenes like his introduction/speech in Moscow towards the beginning of the film. Even more intriguing (and rare in a Hollywood action film) Ford plays the personal side of the action hero President just as well. In short Ford gives a believable and well-rounded performance.Gary Oldman makes a fantastic villain in the form of Ivan Korshunov. It can be easy for an actor to take a role like Ivan Korshunov and turn into a cliché part but not Oldman. Oldman's performance seems real and becomes a study in a fanatical terrorist. This is especially true in Oldman's performance when he first calls the Situation Room and when talking to the President's daughter. Oldman also handles the action sequences believably and there isn't a moment where he seems unbelievable. In short Oldman gives a fine performance in what could have been a cliché ridden role.The supporting cast is good too. Of particular mention is Glenn Close as the Vice President, Wendy Crewson and young Liesel Matthews as the First Family who (like Ford and Oldman) take potentially clichéd roles and make them into nice performances. Noted character actors including Paul Guilfoyle, Xander Berkeley, William H. Macy and Dean Stockwell all give good performances in their various roles. There's also a nice non-speaking, cameo like role for Jürgen Prochnow as General Radek. There's also some good performances from numerous other actors that help to fill out the world of the film.Air Force One is an action film and does well at it. From the opening commando raid to the takeover to the plane and beyond, the film features some well-choreographed sequences. Not to mention numerous fight scenes including the climatic and highly impressive fight between the film's two leads. The film also features some exciting if at times unbelievable aerial sequences as well though some of the CGI work is rather unconvincing (particualry in the ending). Otherwise it's as impressive as any action film out there if not better.The film also features good work behind the camera as well. It features rather convincing sets from Production Designer William Sandell which (more then anything else) help to sell the reality of the film. The camera work of Michael Ballhaus gives Air Force One much the same claustrophobic feel of director Wolfgang Peterson's 1981 classic Das Boot despite the plane being much bigger which, when coupled with the editing of Richard Francis-Bruce, gives the film the feeling of being both a claustrophobic thriller and an action film all in one. Last, but not least, the script by writer Andrew W. Marlowe is fairly good though it does feature some glaring plot holes yet it works for the most part.All together under the direction of Wolfgang Pterson the result is a movie considerably better then most of the stuff that Hollywood produces on a regular basis.One of the film's highlights is the score. Unhappy with the score originally created by prolific composer Randy Newman, director Peterson turned to one of the true masters of film score Jerry Goldsmith. What Goldsmith (with the assistance of Joel McNeely) is truly up to the standards of Goldsmith's previous cores. it is loud, epic, personal, epic and patriotic all in the film's two hour running time. Goldsmith was great at creating themes which were not only memorable but fitting and his main title theme for Air Force One remains one of the great examples of his talent. it might not be the greatest score of Goldsmith's long career but it is certainly one of his best.All in all Air Force One is better then a lot of Hollywood's other action films. It is much better acted, better made, better scored and (if nothing else) better directed then the vast majority of the films in the genre of the big-budget Hollywood action film. As a film that is now twelve years old it stands up as not only of the better action films of the 1990's but as a fine one even today. "},{"Title":"quite enjoyable, as long as you can completely suspend reality","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" So, terrorists hijack the president's plane and the prez goes into attack mode. Since Harrison Ford plays the commander-in-chief, you can probably guess what that means. Personally, I wish that a movie would portray American terrorists; why do Russians always have to be the bad guys? And there are a number of scenes that anyone could easily identify as totally unrealistic (hint they involve parts of the plane getting opened). As for that line He fought alongside me in Afghanistan, that merely brings to mind how the Soviet invasion of that country partly led to the current state of the world.Still, Air Force One is a pretty fun ride. Gary Oldman makes one nasty terrorist leader. Yes, it's just another big Hollywood movie that makes little if any sense, but as long as you understand that it lacks any realism, it's OK. Also starring Glenn Close, Wendy Crewson, William H. Macy, Dean Stockwell and Jurgen Prochnow. "},{"Title":"Anything is not possible!","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's interesting that when Hollywood wants to, it can stretch the limits of the plausible and implant its own way of doing things. So many writers have used the expression, Anything is possible. This is one of those expressions that is so overused. Lawyers get a witness to say that a one in a trillion DNA sample may be tainted because, Well, anything's possible. A film has a duty to the viewer to have a sense of realism. The ease with which terrorists and other entities are able to infiltrate in many books and movies is insulting. Now, if an intricate plan has been hatched with many levels of difficulty, leading to the infiltration, then the plot continues, it's acceptable. Most of these movies get their principles in their and then the actual event occurs. Generally, Harrison Ford movies can be depended upon. This one just doesn't cut the mustard. It also has gratuitous violence, generally directed toward the less attractive persons. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford kicks butt","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" May contain spoilers Air Force One is a solid action thriller from director Wolfgang Petersen (Das Boot, The Perfect Storm, Troy.) Harrison Ford is the President of the United States flying on board Air Force One with his wife and daughter. Gary Oldman as Ivan Korshunov is the leader of hijackers who take over the plane and demand the release of a comrade from prison. Ford has stated that he will not negotiate with terrorists. Unknown to the hijackers, Ford is still on board the plane, hidden below. It's up to the president to somehow save the plane and his family. Petersen knows how to keep an action film moving and this one speeds along at 500 miles per hour and it's full of suspense. As long as you can believe super star Ford as the president. Oldman is really good as the sinister terrorist. Glenn Close is the Vice President. "},{"Title":"Invented story for entertainment","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film seems to me to be more a joke than a serious story. Once again German director Wolfgang Petersen touched a story dealing with an American president, remember In the Line of Fire (1993). This time the president is someone like Superman, Batman or all these heroes together. Probably Petersen has an obsession with American presidents. The plot is simple, it put Russians as the villains, but real villains, people unscrupulously killing anyone, they were Russian soldiers, communists obviously. Petersen even used the International anthem as part of the film soundtrack. The hijackers seized a plane where the President and his family were traveling. The hijackers took all people in the plain as hostages, killed some of them and requested the release of some of their fellows from the prison in Russia. The rest you may guess, Harrison Ford as usual hiding himself (does he know how to play differently?) and finally defeating all hijackers. The Vice-president in the film was Ms. Fatal Attraction, Glenn Close. When you see the film, the excitement is at the highest level, but when it finishes you realize that the plot is just a residue of the prejudices of the former cold war. "},{"Title":"Con Air? Puh-leeze!!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is a gratifying display of what a true hero could be in a president. Harrison Ford is at one of his best playing the president who refuses to negotiate with terrorists, and winds up battling them personally while they attempt to take his family away.This is quality at it's best, and Petersen's direction is at one of it's finest with taut suspense, terrific action, and brilliant scripting of plot. You wanna see something that sucks? See Con Air. you wanna see quality with a good plot that's NOT full of holes? See this. I'm surprised more people haven't commented on this film, but I hope that soon changes.  "}{"Title":"Die Hard but in the air","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman shine in this film. All though a little un believeable at times, it is a good action film, it has good special effects, good acting and loads of action.  A bit like Die Hard but in the air. The Plot (i dont think wot im about to say is a spoiler) Gary Oldman is the head of a terrorist organisation that takes of the Presidents Plane Air Force ne, hence the title as to force the US government to get the russians to release a Dictaor from jail. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Action packed, but badly flawed","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I will give them a degree of artistic licence , but the fact that the makers of this film were refused entry into the real Air Force One is strongly evident in this film. None of it seems to gel into a whole and you are constantly forgetting that the majority of the action takes place aboard an aircraft. This is evident when they fire machine guns all over the place without any concern about piercing the outer skin and sucking them all out into oblivion.  I have seen this plot on too many films of this genre, and this particular piece of 'eye-candy', albeit action based and reasonably fun, is marred by a excruciatingly bad script, laughable cliche, crap acting (see Glenn Close) and dreadful 'foreign' accents. Harrison Ford is worth more than this.  "},{"Title":"See it for the action, but for little else","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wolfgang Peterson duly delivers thrills and action thick and fast in this tale of the First Plane being hijacked by Russian renegades, and the President himself having to save the day; but second time around its defects are very prominent. There are nauseating excesses of schmaltz in the scenes involving the Pres's wife and daughter, and of gung-ho jingoism throughout.(Incidentally, how did Gary Oldman's lines about America's bombing of Iraq being a form of terrorism get into this ultra-pro-US screenplay? - Maybe Oldman slipped them in himself!) But for me the most glaring absurdities are in the geography Kazakhstan is referred to as though it's part of Russia, not a separate republic, with about 3000 miles between the two capital cities; and the US fighters which down the Migs take a few minutes to fly from Turkey, some 2000 miles away!  For the rest, Harrison Ford acquits himself well, though he has to shed a few years for the part; Oldman, as the ruthless leader of the terrorist gang, is appropriately OTT, aided by one of John Malkovitch's discarded accents; and Glenn Close, as the Vice President holding Fort White House, just about manages with a blend of hardbitten and sentimental.    "},{"Title":"The President as a comic book hero.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film plays alot better on the big screen than it does on video.Maybe I've just seen way too many movies lately,but what I remember as being an exciting action flick with a heroic President became a laugh a minute comic book on the TV screen.In fact,if you take Harrison Ford's opening speech,and add  it to the plot of Wag The Dog,what you end up with is basically a pretty good sum-up of former President  Bill Clinton's foreign policy his last couple of years in office!  "},{"Title":"Heart pounding thriller","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford stars as President James Marshall.  Harrison Ford has proven himself as the Worlds Greatest Action Hero.  From Star Wars to Raiders of the Lost Ark he has entertained us for over two decades. Gary Oldman plays the leader of a Russian Terrorist group. The best part of the movie is being able to see Harrison Ford take out the terrorists one by one.  I would give Air Force One a 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"brief review of film","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A 1997 Wolfgang Petersen film starring Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman, Air Force One is about a terrorist hijacking of the plane carrying the President of the United States. A high-action adventure film, it drags you into suspense and holds you there, even when you think the threat is over, til the very end of the movie. Trying to save the people aboard Air Force One is President James Marshall, with Harrison Ford proving why he has won the People's Choice Award three years in a row as his natural charisma and talent show through in this dramatic role. Starring opposite him as a Russian radical trying to get his leader out of prison and back into power, Gary Oldman puts on a riveting performance. Also in the film is supporting actress Glenn Close, as Vice President of the United States who does everything she can on the ground to help the President and his staff in the air.  "},{"Title":"one helluva ride!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  AIR FORCE ONE is full of action, and that's what matters. The story is a tried-and-true formula (terrorists hold hostages and demand their leader be released from prison), but the action is what this film is about, and it has plenty of it. Harrison Ford is great as the kind of President we all wish we could have, and Gary Oldman manages a bit of restraint as the bad guy while still maintaining a bit of intimidation. It's basically DIE HARD on a 747, but who cares? The pace is lightning-quick, and the hijacking is one of the most thrilling sequences in any action movie. Director Wolfgang Petersen handles everything nicely, from the hard-charging action to the subtle but effective performances. And don't forget that thrilling Jerry Goldsmith score, filled to the brim with action and heroism. For non-stop excitement, AIR FORCE ONE is one helluva ride. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford shouldn'ta done this.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Predictable, jingoistic, pure hollywood junk food entertainment. Oooh, it's da pres-i-dent in dan-ger. Explosions, airplanes, Damn Russkies, fear of falling, which wire do I cut?!?!?, will the plane pull up in time? You've seen it all 100 times before. It was so corny, I was waiting for Leslie Nielsen to appear. This is the kind of action movie that inspires shouting at the screen because the characters are so dumb... the flip side of When I am an Evil Overlord, which is when I am an action hero, I will.... I saw this at home on DVD, and I might add that even the soundtrack is annoying it's so loud in the external shots that you want to turn the volume down, but then you can't hear the mumbled dialogue. Turn it up and you get your head blown off by special effects shots. There must be a kickback from Lucasfilm for making theatre audiences suffer overwrought THX usage behind this...What a great cast, though. Harrison Ford rules. Gary Oldman rules. Jürgen Prochnow and William H. Macy, Dean Stockwell, wow, this is actually a really good cast. The real stars of Air Force One are Janet Hirshenson and Jane Jenkins... the casting directors. Without this cast the movie is garbage. "},{"Title":"Absolutely incredible!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film when it first came out, and it instantly became one of my favorite films. I sat in the movie theater, on the edge of my seat, with my heart literally pounding for the first time in 20 years.  Every time I see this movie, it just gets better and better.  Harrison Ford is wonderful; Gary Oldman is very human and deeply menacing at the same time; and the action doesn't stop until the credits roll.  As for the critics who say the film is unrealistic, of course it is.  The best movies ever made are ones that would never happen in real life; if I want realism, I'll watch the news.  For entertainment that gets my mind off real life, I'll take an action movie every time. "},{"Title":"A piece of c**p","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The most chauvinistic, yankee-centric, implausible and boring film of the Harrison Ford filmography. The spectacular visual effects do not compensate for poor acting and lousy plot. Had they added Chewbacca the Wookie to the cast, had the story become more credible. Besides, the heavy-handed pro-USA-is-the-moral-reservoir-of-the-world makes it almost laughable. In short, don't waste your time.   "}{"Title":"Exciting and Intriguing!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I hadn't heard much about Air Force One before I saw it, so I didn't really know what I was to think of it. It was just a spur-of-the-moment film, a movie I decided to see right on the spot. I was pleasantly surprised with this crackingly enjoyable thriller.Following an impassioned speech in which he takes a hardline stance against terrorism, President James Marshall (Harrison Ford), together with his wife and their 12-year-old daughter, boards the titular jet to return to the States from Moscow. Midflight, however, the plane is taken hostage by an extremist nationalist Russki faction, led by bearded baddie Kurshonov (Gary Oldman). The group's demands are clear cut and brutal the release of their imprisoned leader General Radek (Jurgen Prochnow) or they will kill a passenger every half-an-hour.  In the melee, Marshall eludes the hijackers, feigns escape in an emergency pod and begins to wage a one man guerrilla war to gain control of the plane. This clears the decks for some taut-as-piano-wire cat and mousery as the pumped-up Prez - who it turns out is a decorated Vietnam vet - plays hide and seek with the bad guys, knocking them off one by one in a manner that more befits Clint than Clinton.Harrison Ford, the star of this film, slightly overacts but his performance is enjoyable and he enjoys himself to the extreme. Glenn Close is the star of this impressive little gem, she sparkles with glee in her memorable role. Wolfgang Petersen puts in amazing direction effort, he is simply a master-mind, great movie after great movie, Das Boot to Air Force One&#133;Prepare to be blown away!I rate Air Force One 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The star of this film didn't shine too brightly; this was a so-so performance by Harrison Ford. However, the supporting cast was so good that they carried the film. Ford is cast as the US President who is returning from a visit to Russia. He has just publicly stated that the US will not deal with terrorists. Well, guess who is aboard Air Force One? Bingo! The terrorists, whose leader is superbly played by Gary Oldman, take over the plane in a bloodbath. The remaining passengers are all taken hostage with the usual we'll kill one every hour until our demands are met conditions. Meanwhile, they missed the President, whom they think has escaped. Well, he didn't and now the President alone is left to save the day (and the hostages). Glenn Close as the VEEP puts in a very creditable performance, as does Wendy Crewson as the First Lady and Liesel Matthews as the Prez's daughter. A good yarn, stretching credibility a bit (the scene at Ramstein!!!), but altogether not bad. I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Confused","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Generally, this is a very good film. A novel plot which is well executed, supported by a good score, and fine acting, especially from Gary Oldman. However, two things spoil it for me. Firstly, everything that can go wrong does.Warning - plot analysis below!More importantly, no explanation is ever given as to why one of their is a mole on the inside. Why does he do it? Money, political idealogy, jealousy? It bugs me that we are expected to accept that he JUST DOES! That said, if you haven't seen the film, why not. This is certainly one to catch on a quiet Thursday night in! "},{"Title":"Fails to get airborne","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When Bruce Willis fought off a small army of terrorists in the sublime Die Hard in 1988, Hollywood executives wondered where this genre had been all their lives. Always on the lookout for a formula which would make them money without breaking the bank, the idea of a lone hero, often in a remote, confined location clashing with a band of terrorists was too good to resist.Actually it was nothing new. The Roger Moore thriller North Sea Hijack had tackled the same idea in 1979.The difference here was that Die Hard made a packet at the box office and gave film-makers a template for a host of thrillers in the 12 years that followed.So we were soon faced with a host of clones such as Passenger 57, Under Siege and Air Force One.Okay, it's not an original flick by any means and the effects leave a lot to be desired.What makes it a cut above average is not the script or direction by the usually reliable Wolfgang Petersen but the cast, which includes Glenn Close, the always watchable Gary Oldman and, as a rather feasible president of the USA, Harrison Ford.As with all lone hero thrillers, there are a number of rules to be observed in the execution of a movie like this.One) The setting should be claustrophobic and, if possible, involve your hero crawling through some even more confined spaces such as air vents. (As with Die Hard 2 and Executive Decision, this is another jumbo-based thriller so no problem there.)Two) The hero - usually with a solid dependable name like Jim, John or David - should be forced to use A Team-style ingenuity with a bit of Blue Peter jiggery pokery thrown in for good measure to create an arsenal which will stop or slow down the enemy. (To enforce Ford's status as the hero reminiscent of old cowboy movies, he's also called Marshall. Gary Oldman's villain, on the other hand, is called Egor which may leave Frankenstein fans clear that this is a monster with a twisted perspective on the world.)Three) If the crime fighting protagonist is a white upper or middle class hero, he must have a racially different mate on the ground or in an equally tricky situation to help him out, usually via cell phone or walkie talkie.Four) Unlike the cohorts who will receive one swift blow or shot to kill them, your lead villain (nearly always a Brit playing a German, Israeli or Russian) will be dispatched at least three times in a series of ever more explosive set pieces.Five) The hero will be reunited with his family as the closing scenes roll, usually with a little girl clutching a teddy bear. If a couple is estranged in the opening scenes, their marriage or relationship will be unbreakable by the end of the movie.Air Force One is faithful to the lone hero rules and for the bulk of the movie is a good old-fashioned thriller.The always reliable Dean Stockwell and the big screen's most lovable loser, William Macy, also star in a big budget slice of escapism which won't tax the brain too hard. In fact, as long as you turn on expecting every cliche in the book, then it's actually a lot of fun.At a cost of $85million, it was hardly going to be the most daring movie in the world and by sticking to a tried and tested formula, managed to gross $300million worldwide.Ever wonder if you're in the wrong business? "},{"Title":"Air Farce One","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It should have been named Air Farce One. Granted, it had a few good action sequences, but all in all, it was disappointing. Ford and Oldman do what they can with a lame script, and I pity the master behind Das Boot, director Petersen, that he had to work with a movie about as stupid as Armageddon. This kind of flag-waving actioners are usually considered too stupid outside of the US, but I was pleased to see that some of the American reviewers here thought it was too stupid, too. Memo if you are going to make a President saves the day movie, make it real implausible (like Independence Day), and if it to be an actioner, try to surpass Die Hard, not imitate it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a typical Hollywood movie, President's (Harrison Ford, who else?) plane is hijacked by terrorists (the leader none other than Gary Oldman) and it's up to the President to kick their asses. And naturally, he does. OK, so it may not be the most unpredictable of plots, but it sure is exciting. Directed by Wolfgang Petersen, who sure knows how to create suspense, this is an entertaining movie that works best on the big screen. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Amazingly vile movie","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  **** Spoilers are in the comment. Be warned!! ****I have just seen the movie, and was rather disappointed. Disappointed due to the inconsistent plot, stereotype characters, etc. Well, it might have just been good up to the point where Gary Oldman had to go. In fact, that is my problem. What did he actually die of?Either way, what about all this happiness when the body count has been exceedingly high? Would you expect the press to react the way they do in the movie?And wouldn't we have a right to know why a US Agent becomes a traitor?Anyway, I might have set my standard too high. It just disappoints me every time when a subject with a lot of potential is being dealt with on a flatline. "},{"Title":"You've seen it all before","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You've seen it all before if you've watched any of the Under Siege movies, it's just that this time it's set on Air Force One  and the hero is Harrison Ford.This film is an unfortunate waste of Ford's and many other actors' talents. "},{"Title":"Broken down Ford","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It must be something about Hollywood Force One -- a fabulous vehicle designed to speed its occupants to ever greater heights -- that's the explanation here. There's Petersen, possessor of a palpable talent, and there's Ford, possessor of genuine star qualities. . . and there's Air Force One, a film that so consistently denies the abilities of both that you wonder how either's reputation could have survived this cinematic crash landing. A clunker from start to finish, it's as original as painting by numbers but less imaginative, not so much a movie as a collage of elements culled unapologetically from innumerable other productions to which it doesn't so much pay homage as lay waste. Though it's regrettable that Petersen here seems only too ready to consign himself to a future of Made For TV specials -- though on the evidence of Air Force One, you'd have a hard job persuading M&Ms to sign him to direct one of their commercials -- it's Ford's behaviour that is the most worrisome. Responsible for one of the great movie performances of the 1980s -- Weir's remarkable 'Witness' -- Ford is an actor with presence, ability, sensitivity, and intelligence. Unless all credit goes exclusively to Weir, Ford's work in that movie promised much to come. Instead, there's this. And the dreadful Tom Clancy affairs that followed. And most recently the whatever-the-hell-that-was-supposed-to-be thing about being marooned on an island with a woman journalist surrounded by an ocean of inanity. The awful thing, then, about 'Air Force One' isn't its failure to entertain (or even, interest). It's the way it graphically demonstrates the hi-jacking of a career by mediocre directors and moribund screenplays. And, too, the fate it may yet signal for an actor who could've flown higher than many, but now seems increasingly little more than a broken down Ford.  "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining, But not Faultless.","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is a very good film with a few flaws. Harrison Ford's effort in this film is suprisingly average, sometimes he really overacted. One the other hand, Glenn Close was very impressive in this film though, she was the probably the diamond of the flick. And another little fault in this film was the way the characters acted like the President was the only person on the Earth. But, the sound was very effective in the movie, it made you really jump! The special effects were also excellent, there are some scenes that are captured with such effort and realism that you think you're there!Air Force One is a film I strongly recommend for all action fans!Rating 7 "}{"Title":"WARNING SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  WARNING THIS COMMENT CONTAINS SPOILERS. That said, I would like to comment on the movie.  Despite its propaganda, its EXTREME unoriginality, as well as its predictable plot, the movie is entertaining, and a good killer of 2 hours.We have seen enough Die Hard rip-offs since 1988.  This movie does nothing less than take the plot as well as elements from that movie.  For example, the ending In Die Hard, Gruber (our villain) had Holly (our hero's wife) at the edge of the building and was going to do something.  McClane (our hero) somehow kills Gruber and rescues his wife.  In AFO, Gary Oldman (our villain) had Wendy (hero's wife) at the parachute ramp at the rear of the plane.  Marshall (our hero) kills Oldman and rescues his wife in almost the same fashion as in Die Hard.  AFO included the taking of a hostage by the bad guys and using him or her to get the unknown hero to show himself. Like we haven't seen that before.  Then you can expect the hero, which for some strange reason happens to be the President of the United States (what the hell?), to make everything turn out fine in the end.Also, this movie makes the terrorists look bad,  yet I was rooting for them throughout the movie.  It's strange how when a non-American sacrifices the security of civilians to achieve certain aims he is labeled a terrorist, yet an American who does the same thing is a hero.  This movie is chock-full of that kind of propaganda.  Don't expect the President to ever get seriously injured, either, because he's the President of the United States.  Oh, and make sure to keep your brain in a safe place other than your head, because you won't be needing it for the duration of this movie.Don't expect any plot twists.  That traitor guy (I didn't bother remembering his name) should've been kept secret until the end in order to add some suspense.  But nooooo, they *had* to show him doing his dirty work so we can all know who the mastermind behind the hijacking is, thereby ruining the whole element of surprise for us.(By the way, I told you there would be a lot of spoilers.  If you find yourself reading this, and you are about to kill me because I ruined the movie, too bad.  I warned you.)How could the White House secretary not recognize the President's voice? When Marshall was calling for some Russian guy to come down and get the body, why didn't the Russian guy recognize that this was not an authentic Russian accent?  There are too many flaws with this movie that I cannot list them here.In short- don't get me wrong, this movie is worth a rental.  But only if you can't find anything else, and you are EXTREMELY bored.  DON'T bother buying this movie, though.   "},{"Title":"Why Did They Like It?","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love Harrison Ford movies, but this one wasn't particularly good.  Basically, it's another one of those typical action movies, but in this one, the President is Rambo.Sure, he gets emotional when his family is in danger, and sure he out thinks the bad guys more than he out powers them.  But this movie is just a rehashing of other, better action movies, and the conclusion is pretty lame.  Also, the special effects are terrible (The planes look like plastic models).Finally, the supporting cast is OK, but not spectacular.  Glen close looked like she didn't even believe herself spouting out lines like Your president just gave you an order!  And I love Gary Oldman, but in this movie he's confusingly lame. "},{"Title":"Air Force One","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford played a pretty good role as the president of the United States and Gary Oldman as the Russian terrorist but overall the movie was ok good but not great. I didn't think Glenn Close played her part well at all as the cheif of staff she kinda overreacted to me. Also i would like to point out is how they made Harrison Ford all tough and never was hit by a bullet or anything. But this is an average movie. "},{"Title":"A good, if barely believable, action fare.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First of all, the plot is more than a bit hokey. A President staying aboard a hijacked Air Force One and playing patriot isn't likely to happen in real life. But this is an action movie, and real life doesn't really count, does it?  That said, Ford is excellent (a real surprise, huh?), the terrorist is a scare, and made more beleivable by the fact that he makes good on stuff he says.  This makes the sense of danger in the film all that much more intense. While much of the supporting acting is cardboard, it's the lead roles that really shine. "},{"Title":"Mixed-Grill... Really unoriginal !","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Take the most famous (it means not necessarily the best) scenes of Airport 75 (Jack Smight), Airport 77 (Jerry Jameson), Die Hard (John McTiernan, especially the bad guy played by Alan Rickman), Die Harder (Renny Harlin), Living Daylights (John Glen, especially the fight in the Craftship), Cliffhanger (Renny Harlin, the cable between aircrafts),Executive Decision (Stuart Baird, the whole plot) and some aircraft battles, mix'em up, put'em on a barbecue with big effects and overblown patriotism and you will see the result Air Force One is born. The film seems efficient at first sight but reveals terribly lacking of originality as every scene has been scene dozens of times in disaster-movies of the past decades. Besides, the crash-landing of the plane is one of the worst special-effects scenes ever made. Richard Edlund's son just throw his toy-plane into the home-swimming-pool and daddy filmed it at 64 frames per second for home-video. Don't waste your time better fly British Airways... "},{"Title":"Government by the President, for the President. . .","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Knowing just the title and cast, you could probably free-associate the plot of Air Force One, but let me outline it for you anyway Russian ultra-nationalists hijack the eponymous plane, seeking to free an imprisoned colleague in Kazakhstan.  The President eludes the hijackers and works against them from within the plane. Air Force One is not just a bad movie (and it certainly is that), it is simultaneously jingoistic and an attack on the very idea of democracy.  This film is utterly steeped in the importance of its message, which seems to be that the man occupying the office of the President of the United States is worth any sacrifice, no matter how great, voluntary or otherwise.  At least two people take bullets on behalf of the president, one pilot hurls his aircraft between Air Force One and an approaching missile, and dozens of others fall by the wayside in the process of restoring this one man to power.  The necessity of their combined sacrifice is never questioned.  It would seem director Wolfgang Peterson became so enamored of the shot of Clint Eastwood blocking John Malkovich's bullet with his body in his far superior In the Line of Fire that he sought out a script that would allow him to replay it endlessly.The enshrinement is furthered by America's no-tolerance terrorism policy.  The President clings to the policy, even when a staff member's life hangs in the balance, but chucks it the minute the gun is held to his daughter's head.  (This way, he can seem both tough on crime and a sensitive family man - compassionate conservatism, indeed!)  Instead of highlighting this inconsistency, Peterson would rather spend his time portraying the Constitutional and democratic efforts by the Cabinet to transfer power away from the President in this rather compromising situation as petty and disloyal.  I have to wonder how far the pretense would have to go before the audience found it as distasteful as I did.  What if the terrorists demanded that the President free Timothy McVeigh?  Or that he order the Air Force to bomb some innocent third party?  Would the skin pigmentation of the third party matter?  This is not a spurious question, for another message very present in this film is that the important white folks should have the privilege of agonizing over abstract dilemmas like appeasing terrorists, while the non-whites (in this case, the Kazakhs) should have to live with the consequences of those decisions.  And why does the U.S. President get to say who the Kazakhs keep in jail and who they set free?  This perhaps is the most sickening aspect of this film, how naturally it presents this absurd extension of Presidential authority into the matters of other sovereign nations.  The President should be able to do anything to anyone because, being the President, he knows what is best.  Long live democracy! "},{"Title":"Good show in spite of plot.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's really hard to rate this movie. Most of the cast were outstanding in their roles. (Note Isn't it a shame that people playing the president these days, e.g. Ford, Martin Sheen, etc. have ten times the dignity that the actual president has?) Harrison Ford is such a likeable action hero, so much more so than Willis, or Jean-Claude Seagall. Even as the president, he projects a regular guy sort of aura. Glenn Close as the vice president played it with the proper gravitas. Gary Oldman just oozed evil. Others who deserve praise include Wendy Crewson, Donna Bullock, and William H. Macy.I was going to say that the film had excellent production values, but I'll have to qualify that. All the scenes on the plane looked great, but all of the external flying shots were all too obvious computer graphics. Saved a lot of money, I'm sure, but this really detracted from the movie. Now, the biggest criticism plot holes and overall believability. OK, this was apparently a summer release action film, and I suppose it fits the bill for that. Actually, I enjoyed the film in spite of a certain amount of eye rolling.  "},{"Title":"Glad I didn't see this in a cinema. I'd have walked out instead of turning off the TV.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  All  other viewer comments seem to be mixed. Some loved it, others share my disgust with the endless repetitive violence, a ridiculous premise and Harrison Ford taking over the plane and flying it...really! Doris Day did better in a much better film years and years ago. This is too typical of today's excessive specials effects films, all cleverly done but ultimately boring. I prefer films about people not about unbelievable fantasies. For what this film cost, Horrorwood could have made ten good human interest films. Thank God for PBS and its wonderful Masterpiece Theatre and the British comedies. American films and American TV are fast becoming a total bore...   "},{"Title":"Mediocre action b-movie","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is a b-movie.  The director relied too much on the action and Harrison Ford to keep the audiences attention, sacrificing decent acting and a remotely realistic plot in their haste.  Also, the plot just drags on forever, with all of the continuous fighting.  There are about fifteen places I could think of where the president's hijacked plane could've  been stopped, but through miracles, the hijackers regained power.  The plot just drags on and on, milking every possible bit of action it can muster.  Despite this, the plot is original and somewhat exciting at points, and it captures your interest.  This movie is good for a sleep-over, or a background movie when you're doing something else, but I wouldn't advise t buying it.   "},{"Title":"Mediocre action b-movie","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is a b-movie.  The director relied too much on the action and Harrison Ford to keep the audiences attention, sacrificing decent acting and a remotely realistic plot in their haste.  Also, the plot just drags on forever, with all of the continuous fighting.  There are about fifteen places I could think of where the president's hijacked plane could've  been stopped, but through miracles, the hijackers regained power.  The plot just drags on and on, milking every possible bit of action it can muster.  Despite this, the plot is original and somewhat exciting at points, and it captures your interest.  This movie is good for a sleep-over, or a background movie when you're doing something else, but I wouldn't advise to buying it.   "}{"Title":"A nail biting , edge of my seat film. Exceeded my expectations","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I didn't expect to enjoy this film quite so much. I was rooting for the good guys and wanting to kick the bad guys in the crotch. The thing that bothers me is how the movie simplified the complexities of world politics and the horror of war. It just seemed to come down to good guy(of course from the Western perspective) versus bad guy (somebody else). That is what all action movies come down to. Though this was one of the better ones. Kudos to all who worked on this suspense filled film.  "},{"Title":"they should put this movie under comedy genre","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The plot made me laugh. The one man action show of US president that save, not only US but also Russia. Where on earth can someone think that kind of plot. Very very funny. And I like to emphasize the act of Harrison Ford. No matter what role he is playing, I alway see the old same boring act. I particularly don't like when he jump to other person in order to fight. You always find this in every of his action movies. "},{"Title":"One of the most ludicrous films ever?","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is a slick action film, but no amount of money can save this from being one of the most astonishingly ludicrous films ever made. Harrison Ford as President is sick-making enough - a beer-swigging, joke-cracking, football-watching family man - but when he turns Vietnam-vet action hero any plausibility is immediately out of the window. Gasp! As the President pretends to escape from a terrorist-occupied but actually just hides! Laugh! As he delivers one-liners even James Bond would balk at! Cry! As Gary Oldman plays the most one-dimensional villain in modern film history! Although there are some impressive action sequences, everything about this film is empty spectacle and flag-waving. For a real classy, no-brains 90s thriller, watch 'The Rock' instead. At least that recognises its own preposterousness. "},{"Title":"god bless America","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is like taking a patriot pill.  You want a boost in your belief in America and the President, watch this movie.  Remember that lame lame movie Independence Day tried to do it?  This movie actually succeeds.  It action packed and alot of fun! "},{"Title":"Gary Oldman holds it together.","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie isn't Harrison ford's best he doesn't do that great of a job but oldman is very convincing.  The scenes with Ford are boring and dumb but oldman's character seems to have more of a heart and better reasons then ford's it almost made a communist sympathiser out of me.  if you are thinking of watching this see the fugitive instead. "},{"Title":"Great Action","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   Despite it's flaws, Air Force One is a superb film. Harrison Ford once again takes on the role of the clean, patriotic good guy. Ever since his Indiana Jones/Star Wars days, casting directors have always seen him as their leading man. And for that reason, I think he is the most boring actor in Hollywood. Another flaw is the under used Glenn Close as the 'negotiator'. She is a brilliant actress who wasn't given a chance to bloom. But like I said, Air Force One is a superb film. Gary Oldman, as always, is amazing. His character, Ivan Korshunov, is brilliant. O.K, he is the bad guy, but behind those chaotic eyes is an ordinary man, with a wife and family. Thats what Hollywood usually fails to project in their bad guys. The story is quite good-A group of Russian terrorists take hold of the presidents air craft. They demand for their leader to be released from Russian prisons or they will execute one hostage every hour. Of course, they didn't reckon with the force of the President of the USA who also happens to be an ex soldier. With some excellent fight scenes and many memorable lines, Air Force One scores highly. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"Extremely enjoyable American trash","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  O.K so its up to the American President to save the world again.  I know, lets make him a medal of honor winner and a pilot, sound familiar.  Thats because it is.  Just how much more can we take, we saw exactly the same thing in Independence day, except this time he is fighting baddies from earth instead of from outer space.  It reminds me a lot of Under Siege or Die Hard, but this time its in a plane and wait for it... the president is the hero.  So the visual effects are very good, the acting is over the top but solid, with Gary Oldman giving yet another rendition of the villain.  The problem is it is so stupid.  Here they are making out that the President is the most powerful decision making man in the country, I'm sorry but is this a fantasy?  we all know that is far from the truth in reality.  If we suspend all disbelief I guess this film does work, but why did they have to make it so corny?  and unfortunately so predictable.  Still its very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"(Presidents)DIE HARD","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford was the only thing that made this stunningly typical action movie(Think of it as Passenger 57 if that passenger were the president) worth watching. It was just barely believable but Ford gets you kind of involved as a man who puts saving the people he loves before any high ideas about saving the office of the presidency. Gary Oldman's character also brings up good points when he calls the President(Clinton, Bush, and especially Reagan, listen up) the biggest terrorist of the world, one who hides behind speeches about freedom and humanitarianism before he bombs and starves people to death on a mass scale.The premise was laughable, though. The terrorists can manage to hijack the most highly protected vessel in the world but cant seem to get rid of a middle aged man hiding in the pantry who's killing them one by one. And a handful of mall cops could have done a better job of protecting the plane than the Secret Service did in the movie, with or without a traitor in their midst. The traitor's motivations didn't seem too clear, either. He was just a distraction throughout the movie.This is not groundbreaking or special but an OK action movie if you're really really in the mood for one. "},{"Title":"God Bless America - You'll Need Him!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford as the President?  Ha ha ha.  Harrison Ford as the President with an uzi?  HA HA H HA!  I like mindless American action movies but this is a new genre and I like it even more the Action Movie of the Absurd, so shockingly implausible and bad that it entertains.  How Gary Oldman kept a straight face whilst contorting his 'somewhere in Europe' accent I don't know, but uninformed xenophobia is the least of this film's 'ironic' assets. Two-dimensional characters, witless dialogue, ludicrous action sequences - it has it all.  Harrison Ford, you need to have words with your agent. What happened to being a serious actor?Bit worrying to see other reviewers suggest this is actually a good film - are they on medication?   "},{"Title":"Why don't you just leave my family alone?","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford was probably embarrassed beyond belief when he recited this line.If you play that exact scene in slow motion, you'll notice he made a very brief grin afterwards. Of course, I would if I had a trashy script like that!Without any problem, I was able to predict EVERYTHING that was going to happen before I even watched this tripe. But one thing I didn't expect was rooting for the bad guys more than the heroes. This doesn't happen all the time, but it happened here because they were much more intelligent than the good guys. Harrison Ford's president character was not sympathetic, the girl who played his daughter was a pretentious brat, and Glenn Close as the adviser was about as wooden as a futon frame.  A Hollywood action movie could be as stupid as it wants and still be fun, but if the characters are not people you could stand up for, what makes the suspense and the thrills?As you could see, I don't recommend this film. "}{"Title":"James Marshall is Jack Ryan","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I heard about the plot of this movie, one of the first things that came to my mind is that this movie is sort of an extension to the Jack Ryan movies.  Anyone who has read EXECUTIVE ORDERS knows Jack Ryan, the most honest, caring man in America, becomes the President of the United States. And so, when I watch Harrison Ford in this movie, I see Pres. Jack Ryan in the same mold as previous movies PATRIOT GAMES and CLEAR & PRESENT DANGER, or Richard Kimble in THE FUGITIVE. The story is simple and straightforward, it doesn't have the thrills, turns and complexity of the Jack Ryan movies.  A lot of artistic license was used in order for the story to run or else the terrorists in this movie can't ever pull off the hijacking in the first place.  The movie is fun and good. I enjoyed the constitutional crisis going on in the White House and the dogfight was awesome. 4 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"High Flying Fantasy with the Wonderman himself","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There's really only one reason to see this movie, and so you don't forget I'll tell you several times HARRISON FORD HARRISON FORD HARRISON FORD Good.  Now that you know I am madly in love with America's favorite tough-guy-with-the-hidden-soft-spot, I'll recommend Aire Force One as a slick, non-stop thrill ride with Harrison starring as very believable, very American president.  This movie is pretty common as far as action movies go--but it's well acted and well edited.  Watch for William H. Macy--the great actor who played the crooked car salesman snot in Fargo--as the Major. Oh by the way, in case you forgot, HARRISON FORD HARRISON FORD and HARRISON FORD. "},{"Title":"Yee haw kick butt Indy...err..Prez!!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was quite a pleasant surprise for me,I was worried that an aging Harrison Ford would have a hard time dealing with the bad guys,but he really kicked ass! I really liked how energetic and tough he was in this flick, and also showing some great acting muscle too! Some truly great action scenes and Gary Oldman playing one bad mutha! A really great time!Go watch it America,Uncle Sam loved it! "},{"Title":"Die Hard all over again","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The president's plane Air Force One is captured by insane terrorists who demand that their leader is released from prison. Sound familiar? Wait there's more de ja vu to be experienced. President James Marshall is on board and the bad guys think he's escaped through an escape pod. So now he's the only one who is unaccounted for and must kill of the terrorists' henchmen one by one in order to save his family and the rest of the hostages. Anyone who's seen Die Hard will hate this film with a passion for all the cliche's it started are evident here.Even Harrison Ford is unwatchable for he grunts and wrinkles each time he delivers a line. Gary Oldman has some fun as the villain but by now this is the kind of role he can play in his sleep.The only thig missing here that's in Die Hard is Harrison Ford yelling yippe aye kayey mother f*cker. **1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"This bird should have been shot out of the sky a long time ago","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I usually enjoy a good action movies such as the terminator and the rock, but this had no meat to it what so ever.  The main story line had some good points to it put was clouded over by bad special effects, corny acting, and horrible action scenes. I know that there were a couple good fighting scenes but that was about it. If it didn't drag on for so long I might have had given it not as bad of a review. BOTTOM LINE- only watch this if there is nothing else to do, and that includes getting your teeth pulled. 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford aces again as the President of the United States!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford is one of those timeless action figures, ranking alongside Clint Eastwood and Sean Connery. He can hold his own after twenty years of being a superstar, so I think he deserves to play such an important role as the President of the United States. He is James Marshall, a great leader who refuses to negotiate with terrorists, and is willing to say so without negotiating with his executive staff. He is forced to put his ideology to the test when a Russian nationalist (well-acted by Gary Oldman) holds the crew of Air Force One hostage, demanding the release of another fellow terrorist from jail. Glenn Close adds fine support as the Vice-President, steady and sure about the power and endurance of their commander-in-chief. William H. Macy and Dean Stockwell also star. This is a high-powered action thriller, full of suspense and violence. The director Wolfgang Petersen, well known for other great action pictures such as Das Boot and In the Line of Fire, shows he can capture grit and energy in his action without losing credibility from his story or his actors. The only thing I would change about Air Force One is the ending. It deserves a more suspenseful climax and heart-pounding finale, an aspect I was surprised was missing from this action flick. There is a cliffhanger, but there is enough hanging and not enough of the cliff. The acting is stellar, and it's nice to see the President can kick some Commie butt, but we still need a better followthrough to end it all. This is still a nice job, though. Rating Three stars.  "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a superb film with great acting by Ford and Oldman. The action is breathtaking and the FX are amazing. And to the guy from Norway who said modern jet fighters don't have close-range cannon they do! Just read a Jane's manual or play a flight sim to find out.  "},{"Title":"Patriotic Crap","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Am I the only one who found this film amazingly campy? The dialogue is terrible. Especially anything coming out of Glenn Close's mouth. Gary Oldman was about the only person I enjoyed watching on screen here. Sad, because I really like Harrison Ford. Indy Jones had more believable action going on than this movie. I group this movie with Armageddon for trying way too hard to stir up patriotism. They both even end with scenes of large groups of people cheering their triumph. Hokey beyond words.  "},{"Title":"Another die hard copy. But is it as good as Die Hard?","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You can say what you want about Die Hard, but a brand new category it did create. Since then masses of ''captured-in-moving-things-or-buildings''-movies came on the big screen. Take only as example ''Con Air'', ''Passenger 57'', ''Speed'', ''the Rock'', and i'm sure i can come up with a lot more. However Harrison might get a little more serious about his wife being kidnapped than Bruce Willis did. Anyway, Harrison Ford is playing the president of the United States. But in Air force one ( the presidents flight ), a couple of russian terrorists highjack the plane. And of course Harrison doesn't get off the plane without his family. So then he give back against the bad bad boys. As usual it is russians that are the bad guys ( often it also is Germans or Asians ). And here you also put them in a picture that says Big, fat, bearded, and drinking. Germans are always cold, hard, and without mercy, while Asians runs around and kicks the heroes in the head with a deadly Tae-Kwan-do-kick. And the leading villain in this movie has similar face-expressions that Alan Rickman had in ''Die Hard''. Here it is Gary Oldman. He does it almost as good as Rickman did. In  order of the manual this bad guy is against USA and he wants to create a third world war. And of course the ''invincible'' goverment does not like this idea very much but ( of course ) they can't do anything about it until the president comes. Well it may seem as this is a lousy movie but not really...it's just an action movie that follows the manual. And that's not THAT bad. And the actors do their job good ( especially the wonderful Liesel Mathews as the president's daughter ). And when it all comes to the paper, Air Force One is actually a real entertaining movie. But don't expect to see something out of the ordinary.  "},{"Title":"Top Notch Action Film","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a great action film. It goes straight into the storyline and just keeps going. Ford gives one of his usual powerful portrayals. Gary Oldman as well gives a very convincing and terrifying performance. The one weak point I would say is Glenn Close's role. I personally thought that she would have a huge involvement in the story after seeing trailers etc. but I found her character to be rather uninvolved in the film.Even as an overseas viewer, i.e. non-American, I found it to be not too slushy American self gratifying backslapping. (for the perfect example of this, see the Kevin Kline's Presidential speech in Independence Day)All in all, a very enjoyable action romp. "}{"Title":"Glenn Close is fantastic, not sure about the rest..","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film had that element of We are Americans and no-one else matters. Obviously not a film designed to sell well abroad. Well I'm English and I still thought it was pretty good. Glenn Close gives a fantastic performance as does Harrison Ford but the overwhelming Yee-hah!s and Yes Sir's made so many scenes laughable. It did it almost as much as ID4. But then I think, it's an action film - it's allowed to do that.All in all, worthwhile watching, I was tensing up at times but I didn't come away thinking I want to see it again. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford is a classic!","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I will watch anything and everything with Harrison Ford in it, because he is such an incredible actor.  Air Force One was certainly a gotta have movie. The moment I was finished watching it I wanted it.  My favorite part in the movie was a small but very defined part.  An enemy missile was headed straight towards A.F.O and an American fighter pilot guided his plane in front of the missile, destroying himself, and successfully stopping the missile.  That was one of the bravest, most heroic moments I have ever seen and that's what made me want the movie. (Well, that and Harrison Ford!) "},{"Title":"Dressed-up Rambo picture","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I happen to be a big Harrison Ford fan (as well as a Gary Oldman fan), but watching this, I couldn't figure out why they would both be appearing in what is essentially a Rambo film disguised as entertainment.  Admittedly, director Wolfgang Peterson and cinematographer do a good job on the technical stuff, and Ford and Oldman do what they can.  But, man, the dialogue by writer Andrew Marlowe contains a lot of clunkers(I believe one line was I would fight God Himself for Mother Russia), and it's overhyped. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford deals with it *personally*","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Did I like Air Force One?  Absolutely!  Do I think Harrison Ford would make a great president?  I'd vote for him!Air Force One had plenty of thrills, chills, and death defying scenarios, almost to the point it was too much.  Half a dozen places along the way the movie could have ended and been sufficient.  Still, it goes all the way, and the special effects are above par.  Gary Oldman broke the recent trend in movies that instead of playing a comic over-the-top villain, he plays one that's just plain evil.Watching Harrison Ford duke it out mano-a-mano with the bad guys made me think about our current president.  Some have said that showing a heroic president is jingoistic and unreal, I'd say it's good to have a character who DOES take charge and is an idealized concept of what we would like our president to be.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievable?  Absolutely!  Entertaining?  Definitely!!!","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm a fan of aviation-related action/adventure films in general, and the type who sits in the theatre pointing out glaring technical errors as the film unspools.  I didn't do that in this movie, mainly because there wasn't anything about the film that demanded any technical realism.  This film is pure fiction, pure drama, and pure adventure!  The special effects were spot on -- perfectly done, they lent a high degree of believability into totally unbelievable situations!Probably the one thing I like most about Air Force One is the very jingoism that seemed to bother a lot of commentators.  These people don't seem to understand the concept of a strong, heroic figure, taking matters into his own hands to regain control of a dangerous situation -- but we Americans, armed with our guns, our courage, and our sense of justice and fair play, can!  Which is why films like Air Force One are so popular with us -- they re-affirm all the things that are good about being American in an entertaining manner!  If anyone who isn't a patriotic, red-blooded American doesn't get it, then that's their problem!  America is about freedom -- and we need a President that is more like the Harrison Ford character, rather than the type we have now!  I also enjoyed Glenn Close's portrayal of a strong, determined, and loyal Vice-President!  I'd vote for her anytime!If there is one flaw with this movie it is in not portraying the bad guys more darkly than it did.  They should have used some special effects to show the Gary Oldman character actually blowing the brains out of that innocent Press Secretary, to portray the terrorists more clearly as the brutal assassins they were.We need more take out the terrorist trash movies like this!  Air Force One may not be The High and The Mighty, but it served its purpose very well indeed!My rating 9.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"unbelievable, but fun.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In the face of a hijacked plane, would the President of the US take it upon himself to personally eliminate all the bad guys?  In real life, No, but so what?  I have to say that I was rather entertained by it all.Well, I guess there's not too much here by way of originality or reality. But for me it was just fun to watch President Ford go through everything.  I think he did a fine job, and Gary Oldman has got to be one of the best actors around.  But actually, by way of acting, I thought that this was it for this film.  The rest of the cast seemed a little miscast, corny, out of place, stiff, or all of the above.The family bit at the end was small, but for me, effective.  Maybe I'm just a softy.  And then all the parts about defending the President - seems like an honorable thing to do, and we're led to believe that Harrison is a man worth honoring.  Just makes you wonder if it feels the same in real life.Here's something fun - watch the movie on DVD with the director's commentary.  You'll find out some bits of information, like that fact that the real Air Force One has a bulletproof hull, so all that shooting in the airplane could really happen. "},{"Title":"A shallow one.....","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  AFO has all the makings and does all the right things that a real good movie should do, but for me, it just didn't ring my bell. Harrison Ford, bless him, is great as the Pres, but the character was one that Steven Segal could have played has it was not very broad raning or that deep.  Gary Oldman , wonderfull as he is, I feel was completely wasted in this role and all Dean Stockwell did was to repeat that he was in charge in every scene and then did nothing.  Is it me? "},{"Title":"9 on a scale of 10","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yes, I know there were a lot of unbelievable things in Air Force One. But, what do you expect? Is it possible to make any film about the hijacking of Air Force One and have it come out with the President being a hero any other way? Come on. It's a M-O-V-I-E.If you are an American you will like it. If you are not, you won't. To those that aren't, I simply suggest..... make your own movies and then you won't have anything to complain about.For those that are American, if you loved Die Hard, you will love this movie. Though it uses many of the same ideas as a lot of action movies, it keeps you on the edge most of the time. Harrison Ford is appealing and the seemingly endless number of trials that he must overcome remind me of Indiana Jones. Just when you thought it was safe to ....  "},{"Title":"Dependable and predictable, but still entertaining","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While I think Mr. Ford is one of the greatest actors currently alive, I certainly don't think of this as one of his greatest films ever.  It was indeed a good entertaining film, but it has all been done before.  The bad guy was just *so* bad, everyone wants him to die, and the good guy was just *so* good, everyone wants him to kill the bad guy.  While this has happened occasionally throughout history (Hitler, Hussain), I cannot believe that the kind of person portrayed in this film is one of them.  The pure evilness was a bit too far-fetched, ever for me, and that spoiled the film in my opinion. OTHER THAN THAT, however, it was a very enjoyable film.  Cudos to Jerry Goldsmith for another wonderful score. "},{"Title":"The best action film I've seen in MANY years.","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Most action movies lose something when seen on a TV screen. This is how I saw it and I was, literally, sitting on the edge of my seat for the 2nd half of the movie. "}{"Title":"Han Solo returns in a modern day escapade.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford, the President plays a part not dissimilar to Han Solo (Star Wars) A swash buckling man facing death at each turn.However it happens aboard Air Force One.A tight, suspense full drama, similar to The Hunt For Red October. This time though it is not a cop, or a CIA agent. No This time it is the President himself who has to save the day.Spectacular effects only help in this film to display the real life drama that unfolds before you.Watch it and think before climbing aboard a 747. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   From the moment you start to watch this film, you know one thing.  It was made for the American public, and the American public only.  This film is awful.  The patriotism displayed from Ford and his fellow Americans makes us non-Americans feel sick, and the way in which the Russians are portrayed is just shameful, I would have expected something like it 10 years ago during the cold war.  Ford and Oldman both act very well within their characters, but the characters are not written very well at all.  There is Oldman the Russian without a hint of human decency in him, and the gun-ho Ford Mr. president who puts his family infront of his country.  This is executive decision at its worst.  When the F15 pilot put himself infront of the Air-Force1 bound missile, I couldn't stop myself from laughing at the patheticness of it all.  To think that this is from the same director as Das Boot.  Unless you are American, avoid at all costsRich  "},{"Title":"implausible","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It is really amazing how many bullets can be fired from machine guns inside a plane without causing any serious damage ... implausible!!I like a film to be at least a bit believable.Even Mr. Ford, who I could normally watch for hours was not to be seen at his best. "},{"Title":"Is it really the president, or James Bond 007...?","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film shows a really complete president of the USA, so complete that James Bond would be proud to be like him. Let's take a look at some of his abilities He can speak Russian, he can pilot a plane, he can fight like a trained policeman, he can use every kind of weapon, he always makes the right decisions even in the worst situations... Well, er, the president of the United States of America is said to be the most powerful man on the Earth... but just because of his influence, not his agility! I can't even find good acting in this film. I can only say this film is really BAD. I'll give it 5 out of 10 points, and I still think I'm being generous with my rating. "},{"Title":"Just fine","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A good movie to watch just for fun. Ford and Oldman acted very well as  always but script and directing were powerless. A typical mass production  film. "},{"Title":"A GOOD TIME","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One isn't an orginal idea. It's a combination of Passanger 57  and Die Hard. But, the effects, the action, and the preformances from  Ford, Oldman, and Close are enough reason to see this movie. Check It Out.   "},{"Title":"Fictional president was able to fight with guns and with his hands","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Actually, James Marshall was the varied soldier on Air Force One---good at shooting enemies with firearms and good at hand-to-hand combat. It was striking how he kills one of the hijackers in the tail cock by breaking the bad guy's neck by first choking him with a strap attached to a parachute, and then, pulling off the rip cord to complete the task.He was then able to call off Ivan Radek's escape from prison after being tortured by the hijackers into releasing this general...a general who is almost akin to something like a Russian-style Hugo Chavez or, more properly, a new Josef Stalin.Radek eventually gets shot with real AK-47s after he tried to move after he was ordered not to move after he sees freedom from prison walls...And I had realized the reason why 6 enemy fighters from Kahakstan wanted to shoot the president's plane down.....the fighters, who were loyal to Radek, wanted strong revenge for James Marshall's decision to not allow Radek to be freed from prison as well as causing Radek's death. The enemy planes do strike out one the plane's engines and hit the plane's stabilizer with 30 mm guns until the Halo escort fighter planes---or those so-called 6 good-guy fighters who were told to back off by the hijackers of Air Force One---fight back against the enemies, taking out 3 of the MiGs. One of the good fighters--the pilot of Halo 2----does a very daring feat--creating a human shield against an enemy missile when the plane lost all of its countermeasures....that is, the pilot was willing to let its plane be blown up by the missile instead of Air Force One. This was what the vice president, acted by Glenn Close, wanted by her phrase,....use any and all means to protect the President. The suicide mission was successful but the big explosion caused even more damage to the plane's stabilizer.And that big twist was that character who said We have a Code Red! when the hijackers started shooting inside the plane. He pretended to be one of the good guys, actually pretending successfully to mask himself as another Secret Service agent when the hijack came at its terrible points and good points. In the end, he was a guy who was eventually on the side of Radek and the Russian ultranationalists. "},{"Title":"This is what movie should be...entertaining!","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Albeit this flick from Harrison Ford clearly rests on Harrison Ford's laurels from his work in Indiana Jones and Star Wars, Air Force One is exactly what a good entertaining movie is supposed to be. Although it is pretty clear from the beginning that the Americans will prevail and the Russians were going to have to eat crow, the cat-and-mouse aspect of the movie is what keeps the story moving. Glen Close as the Vice President was and Gary Oldham as the villain numero uno were good casting choices. There was a certain feel good aspect with the main quisling aboard Air Force One getting his just dessert in the end. The story and the gadgetry and CGI tricks do stretch the bounds of credulity, but it still is very enjoyable and will keep the viewer on the edge of his seat for the entire length of the movie. I'm happy that the flick ended as it did avoiding scenes of backslapping, etc. "},{"Title":"action-packed","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This action-packed film turns the president into an American hero, out-witting the 'bad guys'. Although it's a summer blockbuster, which are usually more miss than hit in my opinion, it succeeds in keeping interest and providing some action. Certainly not a classic, but it's a good romp in the clouds for a few dollars, if you can overlook the silliness of the film.This is just a typical Hollywood blockbuster with some big names and big events of what we all feared in our minds before the hijackers of September 11, 2001.5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent And Intense Action Film, With Lots Of Tension And Amazing Performances!","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent and intense Action film, with lots of tension and amazing performances!. It grips you until the very end, and all the characters were awesome, plus Gary Oldman is quite creepy as the main villain/Terrorist. It sends a good message, on hoe America should be, and Harrison Ford portrays the President we all want, plus you really start to care and root for the main characters!. I always found terrorists on an Airplane to be a very creepy thing,and it kinda gave me the creeps, plus Oldman's accent was great!. Harrison Ford Is simply Amazing in this, and the finale was great, plus there were some moments where i felt uneasy in my seat!. While not terribly original, it's still an extremely entertaining ride, that will have you on the edge of your seat throughout!. This is an excellent and intense action film, with lots of tension and amazing performances!. The Direction is excellent!. Wolfgang Petersen does an excellent job here, with some incredible camera work, awesome angles, some shots blew me out of my seat, plus he kept the film at a very fast pace!. We get a bit of blood. We get some gory wounds, and lots of extremely bloody gunshot wounds. The Acting is fantastic!. Harrison Ford is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable kicks that ass, had some cool one liners, is very believable as the President, and was just tons of fun to watch! (Ford Rules!).Gary Oldman is awesome as the main villain/terrorist, and was quite frightening, he was perfect for this role!. Glenn Close does what she has to do well. Wendy Crewson is okay as the mother and did what she had to adequately. Liesel Matthews is excellent as the Daughter i really liked her. William H. Macy is good in his supporting role. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall an absolute must see!. ****1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"The president  vs.  terrorism","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I wish all presidents of the United States could be like what we saw in this movie. The movie begins with president James Marshall, is boarding Airforce One with his staff, and wife and daughter. As they take to the sky, a bunch of terrorists have taken over the plane. The president is sent to his abandon pod on the plane, and its released from the plane. The terrorists make their demands to release a Russian criminal, or they will kill a hostage every hour. But when they find the pod, it is empty. Did the president really get in the pod, did he decide to stay behind and fight the terrorists? Harrison Ford was real great in this movie. If you are in the mood for a high flying action movie then check this movie out. "},{"Title":"A great thriller with some memorable moments.","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" US President Marshall9Harrison Ford)is returning to America from a state visit to Russia with his wife Grace(Wendy Crewson)and his daughter Alice(Lisel Matthews). Travelling along with the first family are the President's staff, some secret service agents and some members of the press.After takeoff Air Force One is hijacked by a group of terrorists (posing as reporters) led by a ruthless man (Gary Oldman), some people are killed and others are taken hostage, the president races against time to release the hostages and save his wife and daughter who are also held by the terrorists. There's good performances from Harrison Ford, Glenn Close as the Vice President Katherine Bennett and Gary Oldman as the lead terrorist. with some memorable scenes and a lot of action this is a good thriller. "},{"Title":"wonderful stuff","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The plot is simple, the president and the whole crew aboard Air Force One have been taken hostage by Russian terrorists. The president has just been proclaiming how he will not succumb to terrorists but is he still that self-assured when it's his wife's and daughters lives that are in danger? This movie oozes of testosterone which is great news for the ladies. With both heroic Harrison and wonderful sexy (baddie) Gary it just doesn't get better. The acting from these two is mesmerizing, for once there is a complex character behind the baddie and the hero (who better than Harrison?) shows vulnerability which makes the character much more real and engaging. Especially the scenes of those two together are excellent and (may I add) very sexy! The plot is a tad unrealistic and tiny bit too American but this is easy to overlook as the film is engaging and thrilling. Great action scenes, I recommend it warmly. Don't expect any great intellectual challenge though- take it for what it is. An entertaining and thrilling action movie. Get the popcorn out! "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but not really anything special","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hollywood has made plenty of films by this one basic formula, ever since the popularity of Die Hard; put a heroic character in a confined space, let a bunch of terrorists take the confined space over, and have the heroic character kill the terrorists, one by one. Unfortunately, no movie has ever come close to the high quality of Die Hard, and this is no exception to that rule. It is, however, pretty good, and possibly one of the better that use that formula, as long as you ignore the glaringly obvious plot holes and factual errors that the film contains. Some of the dialog is also nearly cringe-worthy to listen to, and, like many others, I agree that the special effects near the end of the film look absolutely horrendous(though they look decent enough for the rest of the film). But, if you can look past all of this, you will probably enjoy the film, as it has some pretty good action scenes, and some decent one-liners. The plot is pretty good, and it does indeed present us with a rather interesting idea(Air Force One being taken over by hostiles), it also takes off reasonably quickly and has a good enough pace throughout the films duration. The acting is good, definitely one of the films high points; veterans such as Harrison Ford, Glenn Close and Gary Oldman were all great, even minor stars/characters as Xander Berkeley and William H. Macy do a good job portraying their respective characters. I also think Liesel Matthews gave a surprisingly good performance, considering her age and her acting experience. The characters are fairly well-written and interesting, Gary Oldman as a villain is always good to see(check him out in The Fifth Element and Leon), and Ford is fairly believable as the president of USA. The action is fairly well-choreographed and intense. All in all, a pretty good Die Hard-like formula action film, but nothing special, really. I recommend it to fans of this sub-genre of action, and action fans in general. Also, it doesn't hurt to be a fan of one or more of the main actors, as they all give great performances that any fan of theirs should enjoy. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A FIRST RATE THRILLER TO WATCH AGAIN AND AGAIN","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is my favorite on the edge of your seat thrillers next to Speed. This film should set an example for all other thrillers. Although the violence is strong, it is not as frequent as other films of the same genre. The thrills form on the plot as Harrison Ford who plays US President James Marshall, races to save his family and friends on board air force 1 which has been taken over by terrorists. The supporting cast which includes Glenn Close as the vice president who tries to meet the terrorists requirements and Gary Oldman who plays the lead terrorist. Director Wolfgang Peterson puts as much effort into his action sequences as he does in both story and character development. I give this film 9 out of 10 stars and highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"too american,too Hollywood,too stupid..but fun","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The plane of American president James Marshall is abducted by Russian terorist under leadership of cruel Ivan Korsunov.The terorists are demanding the release of radical dictator general Radek who is in jail in Kazahstan. They are threatening to kill a hostage every half an hour until American goverment aranges the relief of Radek. But American president Marshall is an ex soldier and he is the last hope of the hostages on the plane... Another movie that is making Americans and the moral leaders of the world,this time against Russian terorists-very original idea,yeah,wright. The most stupid thing is that this time American presidents is the hero and he personally takes on the terorists.It's pretty hard to picture George W. Bush fighting terorists on the plane. Eventhough,prety good crew with Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman and under the direction of the Wolfgang Petersen (The perfect storm),the movie is quite fun. Stupid,but fun. "},{"Title":"Should be nominated for best farce of the century","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought I had seen bad films before but this is just an absolute load of crap. I laughed so hard I wet my pants.  I still can't believe Harrison Ford sold his soul to make this film. I'm still laughing so hard its difficult to keep my thoughts. There is a message here for you bums in Hollywood and its this. Get a life and get a decent script.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic! The most suspenseful and exciting film ever made!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am not a very big fan of Harrison Ford, but I decided to rent this movie. It is about a gang of Russian terrorists who are traveling on board Air Force One (they stole the identities of several murdered Russian TV reporters, who they are pretending to be) and manage to get ahold of the many weapons on board the plane with the help of one of Harrison Ford's secret-service agents, who is really working with the Russians. A fantastic action scene explodes soon after the plane is beginning to return to Washington from Moscow, as the six Russians fight a blazing gunbattle with other secret-service men on board the plane. Of course, all the secret-service are killed, and the rest of the plane's passengers (including the president's wife and daughter) are taken hostage. The terrorists are demanding the release of General Radek, an evil dictator from southeast Asia whose regime murdered over 200,000 civilians. The terrorists are negotiating with Washinton throughout the film, and the female Vice President (Glenn Close) plays out the situation very well. The true drama begins when Harrison Ford is shoved by his agents into a rescue capsule on board the plane, which then shoots down to earth in a parachute so he can escape, but he demands that he wont leave without his family so he manages to stay out of the capsule. Ford holes up in the cargo section of the plane with a single machine gun and does what he can to try to kill the terrorists and free the passengers. This movie wil have you on the edge of your seat from beginning to end and the ending is EXTREMELY exciting so I will not spoil it. SEE THIS FILM AND YOU WILL THANK ME. Feel free to email me if you have any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"Ford's best since Indiana Jones","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. A full two hours goes by fast when watching Harrison Ford eliminate the terrorists on his plane. Not too many laughs, but this adds to suspense, and gives you a feeling of fear as you cheer for the President of the U.S. of A. reclaim Air Force One, and save his family. "},{"Title":"6.5?","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    I can't believe that this movie got 6.5it could be lowerout of ten! this movie is far better than that.IT has great acting from all the actors in it mostly from Gary Oldman.I just don't get how people cangive movies like Clockwork orange and Joyride high ratings.This deserves to be at 9 or ten at least! 10 out of ten. "}{"Title":"I think we should rename it to America is the best!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It just makes me sick of watching Americans portray themselves as the piece-keeping, humane, over-reasonable and heroic nation. This time the Russians are the bad, bad guys again. What's new, huh! Anyway, the Russians are crazy, communist, Mother-Russia patriots and by the way I should kill the guy that wrong this word in the script that Gary Oldman pronounces in the movie with a rough, sadistic= Russian voice, right? So, Air Force One is the American presidents airplane that gets hijacked by Russians and the cool, heroic, steel-ball American, being a president, of course kills all terrorists. This happens since, you know, they are Russian and bad. What's new, Uncle Sam?  "},{"Title":"Die Hard on a plane","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  WarningPOTENTIAL SPOILERS !A brutal dictator is captured by Russian & American forces and is thrown in jail.Two weeks later,the president's plane is hijacked by terrorists demanding the release of their peace loving dictator,so it's up Ford to save the day.Intense,exciting & often violent action thriller features fine performances from Ford & Oldman.The scene is which the bad guys take over the plane is pretty cool,and the scene when Guilfoyle takes a bullet for the Prez is hokey.The way Oldman dies is cool.Rating**** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Almost! Almost had it!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As Gary Oldman growls his lines down th telephone the hairs on the back of your neck stand up...you can believe he is a Russian communist, but then you realise no self respecting communist would appear in such  propaganda, i appreciate the fight against terrorism as much as the next person but this is unoriginal action with actors who should have known better!Harrison Ford has starred in some of the best action films (Indian Jones, Blade Runner, STAR WARS) and to see him in such an uninspired cliche of a movie is disappointingNo prizes for guessing the ending *swoon for the president*  "},{"Title":"Hmmm, a tad predictable maybe ?","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *Spoilers* this film was over for me from the second the plane got hijacked. The story just had no flexibility. It was obvious that the writers weren't gonna kill off the president, so right from the start we knew he was gonna handle the situation alright. Plus, with this kind of hollywood schlock, you also knew they would never kill off the Presidents family, which admittedly could have made for a good film, giving the president something harsh to deal with emotionally. As film making goes, this was't a badly made film, it was a bad story. The directing is the kind that fades nicely into the background. Nothing new or experimental, but nothing so bad as to make you notice it, just average, it did what it needed. Then, the scenes from The Whitehouse! C'mon! The emergency meetings at the Whitehouse were pulled off more realistically in Austin Powers! THe military general who wants to blow up everything that moves, the cool and collected woman. Has anyone heard a of a stereotype ? Overall, this movie could have been worse, I gave it a 4. It redeemed itself with the 'decent' (note lack of enthusiasm) performances of the Terrorists. If there is something else on though, don't miss it for this. Air Force One = Air Force Pooh  "},{"Title":"Disaster movie no 1","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This can't be meant as entertainment for any thinking creature. This has got to be a collection of clippings removed from other movies.  This is prostitution of the movie industry. How can anyone in their right mind read the script and accept to board this disaster movie.I have serious doubts of the future of man kind after this.All right - Dante's Peak, Volcano, Twister and Earthquake was worse, but that's about it. Great films are made in Italy and France. "},{"Title":"Bad cliched unbelievable yarn","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I could not believe my eyes when I read Maltin's review for this movie. Supercharged, intense, violent, edge-of-the-seat?? Did they watch the same movie I did? I watched a boring, cliched, wheres-the-remote movie. You have an action-hero president who's stronger than his secret service men and a bunch of hardened terrorists, on the other hand he's also like you and me - he is visibly hurt when people die and he watches football. Then you have the obligatory which-wire-to-cut scene and the cut-rope-with-sharp-object scene. Please avoid yourself a headache and dont watch this movie. 3/10 (for what the terrorist says about US involvement in Iraq). "},{"Title":"Good F/X, terrible plot","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Warning - slight spoilers included.At the end of the film I felt sickened and upset.  There's a difference between brutality which is implicit to a believable story and characters, and that which is thrown in for sheer shock value.  This film crossed way over that line.The acting was average, the script unbelievable, and the actions of the main characters often stupid.  Harrison Ford's character is presented as a pretty smart, resourceful guy, but when he knocks out a terrorist in a fight, he not only fails to make sure he is secure, but leaves a loaded weapon behind with the terrorist.  Ridiculous.I cannot recommend the move, although I'll admit the special effects were quite impressive.  That's about all it had going for it. "},{"Title":"This movie is terrific!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman are remarkable together!  Oldman is a terrorist, and Ford is a strong and determined president who has just made a national policy....the U.S will never negotiate with terrorists.  Things just might change, however, when Oldman and his gang of terrorists hijack Air Force One, along with the First family, the chief of staff, and the national security advisor.  To add further to the problems of the Vice-President (Glenn Close) and the Secretary of Defense(Dean Stockwell), the President, who was aboard Air Force One, is completely missing and the terrorists want merciless dictator Raddeck(Jurgon Prochnow) released from prison. If you like action and adventure, this one is for you!  "},{"Title":"Great movie for those who need a little patriotism (or just some good action)","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't know where to start with this movie, so I guess I will begin with the director.  Wolfgang Petersen has a long history of making great movies that are largely ignored by the majority of viewers (i.e.- Das Boot, In the line of fire), and this movie is the one that started to break that mold. By casting an actor of such caliber as Harrison Ford (sorry Clint), Mr. Petersen finally got a star with enough drawing power to pull people in on his name alone.  That fact, along with a storyline that tugs at the very core of a nation, was able to pull people in to finally see what a great director can do with a good story and some solid acting.  "},{"Title":"The best movie of 1997!!!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie at my dad's apartment on a big screen TV!! I saw little parts of it before when i was younger, but not much because i was too young. Now I just saw the whole thing and my GOD it was amazing!!!!!! Ford is funny and great as the President and Oldman knows how to make an evil character his own!! His best part are when he kills the Unarmed Woman (which is the only part that made me scream), and when he is talking to the little girl. The movie itself seemed so real, how they show no mercy for any of the characters (cause a good 95% of the cast when killed)!!! This is a must see for ANYONE!!!!!!! **** out of **** "}{"Title":"One of Ford's best.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was a great film. This movie gave one of Harrison Ford's best performances ever. I really admire his work and I love this movie.It's the story of United States President James Marshall who has just had the U.S. government capture a major Russian terrorist, General Raddack, and on the way home from a major political speech, Air Force One is hijacked by a group of major terrorists who demand that Raddack is released. But they didn't count on the president fighting back. Alone, he must rescue his family, the hostages, and fight to keep Raddack from being released. But once he solves one problem, another one is started.Before I saw this, I thought it was just going to be like Die Hard on an airplane. But I was wrong. What made this movie great was the acting. Especially the confrontation scene between Ford and Oldman. Another thing that was good, were the great plot twists. Whenever I thought the action was over another great problem would begin.This movie is great, period. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Exciting, suspenseful, believable, the year's best action movie","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  	What makes 'Air Force One' so much better than all of the other similar action/terrorist movies lies in the fact that it has a brain, something even 'Die Hard' or 'Under Siege' lacked. It has well-developed three dimensional characters, a realistic, well-crafted situation, and an excellent script. That 'Das Boot' director Wolfgang Petersen is in charge of it adds one more reason to rent it, as he does an excellent job creating it.	Harrison Ford is excellent as the president, turning in his best action performance, receiving help from a stellar supporting cast which includes the menacing Gary Oldman, Wendy Crewson, and William H Macy.	The score by 'The Thin Red Line' composer Hans Zimmer captures the mood perfectly and the soundtrack is highly recommended. All in all, 'Air Force One' is a near perfect film, wonderful in every regard.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Get off my plane! -- James Marshall","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford successfully invades Bruce Willis territory as theleader of the free world in this nifty action/thriller known asAir Force One. As Pres. James Marshall and the first familyboard the presidential airliner from Russia, crazed Russianterrorists (led by bad dude extrodinaire Gary Oldman) hijack theplane and hold the entire crew hostage. The only one who canstop the killers is none other than the president himself,thanks to his Vietnam war tactics! Ford as usual delivers hisno-nonsense, square-jawed heroics to a whole new perspective,and Oldman is also great as the scumbag terrorist  "},{"Title":"I don't want to hurt anybody,but this film is bad at all.","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie was very very bad feeling for me ,this film is maximally calculable,primitive,amateurish,impertinent,uncritical.The years worst acting ,maybe sometimes Harrison Ford( The President Of The United States),but just sometimes better ,but I don't want to talk about hi's family members acting,but maybe this was the mistake of the director Wolfgang Petersens too.The story is unrealistic as much as it can be.There's some good action scenes, but this is not enough for a big budget summer movie.The story telling is boring,average.It's hard to waste bad words for a film what could be much better ,if it's directed by somebody else,or have a better,more interesting screenplay,different actors for this boring characters. "},{"Title":"What overblown garbage.","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yay...the President is taken hostage....cool.I was hoping they would dismember his head from his shoulders, rape the wife and beat eh kid to pulp, but no...It's American Propagana at it's finest and with a sad attempt at it.How much action could be put into one movie?Let's see.Hostage of the US. President Killing the pilots Running out of Fuel Failing engines Having to crash a plane...and in it all, Glenn Close has to put her career into the toilet and flush it away as well as everybody else.Why couldn't the terrorists blow the plane to pieces? They had everything to gain!!! But they had to do too much talking.The President saves the day....oh yeah!!! What a surprise...and with TRIUMPHANT music to boot.Why did the White House Security Agent turn? What did he have to gain? What did he have to lose?Yes, the US is the saviour of the World, once again...and this time it wears the face of Harrison Ford, without the hat, bull-whip or 5 day old beard.It's a pathetic movie with poor computer animation, sad story structure, more than needed barriers and poorly developed leads.My heart goes out to the bit players and William Macy for having to put their names on this crap...at least his character dies the TRUE hero.I can't wait for more Hollywood trash to be produced to showcase how heroic the U.S. is and how bad the entire World needs them.Unbelieveabley stupid. Movies like this make the U.S. a bad reputation that it is.It tries to be Die Hard. It tries to be Passenger 57. It tries to be Top Gun. It tries to be every action movie that ever made something, but it fails on levels that can't be explained.Go watch puddles form and entertain yourself with more intensity. "},{"Title":"Air Force One","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If you like great action thrillers, then you'll enjoy this film from director Wolfgang Petersen (In the Line of Fire). Basically the President of the United States, James Marshall (Harrison Ford) is heading home after making a speech in Moscow on his famous plane, Air Force One. But on the journey, the plane is hijacked by Russian terrorists, led by Ivan Korshunov (Gary Oldman). The President supposedly got in the escape pod before they could get to him, but he didn't, he has stayed on, got a gun (he has experience of battle) and is trying to communicate to the authorities, land the plane and save his wife Grace (Wendy Crewson) and daughter Alice (Liesel Matthews). Oh, I should mention that the guns shooting is okay, because the plane is able to withstand that sort of attack (from the inside anyway). The Vice President Kathryn Bennett (Glenn Close) on the ground is trying to renegotiate with the terrorists' demands to release convicted General Ivan Radek (Jurgen Prochnow), but they will shoot a hostage every half hour they take to get it done. Eventually Korshunov is aware the President is still on the plane, and the one causing them problems, e.g. fuel loss and outside attacks, but Marshall manages to save the day getting many hostages off, killing those that deserve it, and getting out alive before the plane crashes. Also starring Paul Guilfoyle as Chief of Staff Lloyd 'Shep' Shepherd, Terminator 2's Xander Berkeley as Secret Service Agent Gibbs, William H. Macy as Major Caldwell, Dean Stockwell as Defense Secretary Walter Dean, Andrew Divoff as Boris Bazylev and Bruce Almighty's Philip Baker Hall as U.S. Atty. General Andrew Ward. This is probably one of the only films where the U.S. President kicks ass instead of someone else doing it for him, e.g. bodyguard, FBI agent. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Film Editing and Best Sound. Gary Oldman was number 40, and Harrison Ford number 5 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Oldman was also number 11 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, and he was number 36 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "},{"Title":"wonderful stuff","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The plot is simple, the president and the whole crew aboard Air Force One have been taken hostage by Russian terrorists. The president has just been proclaiming how he will not succumb to terrorists but is he still that self-assured when it's his wife's and daughters lives that are in danger? This movie oozes of testosterone which is great news for the ladies. With both heroic Harrison and wonderful sexy (baddie) Gary it just doesn't get better. The acting from these two is mesmerizing, for once there is a complex character behind the baddie and the hero (who better than Harrison?) shows vulnerability which makes the character much more real and engaging. Especially the scenes of those two together are excellent and (may I add) very sexy! The plot is a tad unrealistic and tiny bit too American but this is easy to overlook as the film is engaging and thrilling. Great action scenes, I recommend it warmly. Don't expect any great intellectual challenge though- take it for what it is. An entertaining and thrilling action movie. Get the popcorn out! "},{"Title":"Another Hit for Harrison","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is another HIT for Harrison Ford, who has been in more great movies than any actor in history.  I've only one problem with this film... the profanity should have been omitted!  Air Force One could have flown as a PG or PG-13 just as well.  Because of the profanity I give it a LOW 10, almost a 9. "},{"Title":"AF One Insults your Intelligence!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As actors, Harrison Ford (the President) and Gary Oldman (the terrorist) give their usual first rate performances. But that's not the problem with Air Force One.As a movie fan, I can suspend common sense and belief for science fiction and comedy movies, but not for a movie about the President's plane being skyjacked by terrorists. I don't blame any of the actors. I do blame the director, the producers, and most of all, the writers. They are idiots. Did the writers even consider doing research into the methods of the Secret Service, perhaps the most respected law enforcement agency in the world. (And this from the same director of In the Line of Fire, an outstanding and believable movie about the Secret Service).Unless you enjoy having your intelligence insulted, don't go see this movie. Rent an old Indiana Jones or Hans Solo flick, at least you know its pretend!  "},{"Title":"The Worst Action Film of the Year (Any Year)","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film was just awful. What made it worse was that it was crudely cobbled together from a lot of other films. The escape pod from Escape from New York. The plane to plane transfer from Cliffhanger. Even the 'strangle the bad guy with his parachute, break his neck and kick him out of the plane' is almost a complete carbon copy of a scene from Drop Zone. Then when Air Force One crashes, it looks like a scene from a bad video game, the effects are that bad. You expect the words Game Over to appear. The film conveniently ignores political reality (Kazakhstan has 40% Russian citizens and lots of Russian soldiers, they couldn't and wouldn't do this. As for the speech at the start where the President says the right moral thing - when was the last time you saw that happen?). At the end of a preview screening in Sydney, someone yelled out That was garbage - and people applauded.  "}{"Title":"The worst movie EVER","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is simply the worst movie EVER made. It´s like a big Trash movie, with a good budget. Harrison Ford plays the worst role of his life, on his worst performance. If you have an IQ superior to 2 do yourself a favor and stay the hell away from this piece of cr@p. "},{"Title":"Die-hard on a Plane","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie tracks very closely to the original Die-hard. So much so, in fact, that I was sitting here picking out the AFO characters who represent the Die-hard characters. I realized that if I am sitting here playing such a game that I was certainly not into this movie. AFO is, on so many levels, simply ridiculous. Harrison Ford is about as presidential as Sgt. John McClane, NYPD, and nearly as athletic.It might be fun to compare character by character between this movie and Die-hard, but AFO is simply not worth the time. After watching for about 50 minutes I had found no redeeming qualities in this movie, so I turned it off. And I also found that it embarrassed me as an American! Stupid, stupid, stupid ... what WERE they thinking? "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford for President! ----8/10","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Is there anyone but Harrison Ford who would have been perfect for this role? He looks like a president, he talks like a president, but he kicks ass like only Indiana/Solo/Ryan could. Air Force One centers on the president's plane being hijacked by a group of terrorists to get their leader freed from prison. The group's captain (Gary Oldman) is hot-headed and cold-blooded. A bad combination. After they take over the plane, they learn the president's escape pod had launched. What they don't know is that that he is still onboard, bent on saving his family and friends.The movie is perfectly casted and well acted. Harrison Ford is the best movie president ever. You watch this movie wishing he really was a president. He is caring, brave, and very clever. Everything the real president is not. Although i loved Ford here, i found myself rooting for Gary Oldman sometimes. It's my love of bad guys acting up. He is terrifying, yet i somehow agreed with some of the things he said about America's foreign policy. But i didn't entirely agree with him blowing innocent people's heads off.The action scenes are well-made and very entertaining, if a tad unbelievable. The one thing that pulled me out of the fun was the presidents staff acting like he was god. I know he is a good president, but come on. It's not like he could walk on water. Still, this is a great adventure and one of Harrison Ford's best. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining action non-sense.","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The story is totally unbelievable and stupid but this is simply not a movie that is trying to be believable and smart, it's made to entertain and entertain it does!What is it with German directors making patriotic American movies? You have Roland Emmerich who made the patriotic movies Independence Day and The Patriot and you have Wolfgang Petersen who made this movie. Yes Air Force One is a patriotic movie, I mean the American president fighting a couple of terrorist, how more patriotic can it get. But is it a bad thing? In this case no, the patriotism really didn't bother me, since it is clear that this movie is just simple action non-sense that is not meant to be taking serious.I find it funny that many people call Gary Oldman the highlight of the movie. This movie might very well be Oldman's worst role till date. He played many villains before and he has done way better. Compared to his other roles this is a very average role for him, it almost feel like he is holding back. I think it says something about Oldman as an actor that people still love him in this movie. Harrison Ford acts a bit stiff in the beginning but once the action begins he seems to become more and more comfortable in his role and becomes a believable American president. I love both Xander Berkeley and William H. Macy, they are two of my favorite small part actors so it was fun for me to see them both in this movie. Jürgen Prochnow, best known for his role as the captain in Wolfgang Petersen's masterpiece Das Boot also plays a small part in this movie.Like I said, the story is total non-sense but still it is not made like it's totally unbelievable, which is I think thanks to Petersen's professional directing and it is the action that also doesn't disappoint.Another thing that also doesn't disappoint is the musical score by Jerry Goldsmith.(SPOILER) A thing that does disappoint is the ending when air force one crashes into the sea. It's very poorly made and it reminded me of a computer animation the always used to made in the 90's to reconstruct a plane crash and showed on the news. (END OF SPOILER)So as long as you don't take it all very serious, this is a very entertaining action movie.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Wow, If Only We Could Vote For Harrison Ford....","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A good action flick. Worth seeing if you're in the mood. That's my take on it, anyway.So the plot is that a bunch of terrorist baddies take over Air Force One in order to get their ransom the release of their evil general leader from prison. However, who could save the poor people trapped on the plane? Who, pray tell, who?Well, it turns out that the president himself is the one who gets the chance to rescue everyone else. It's sort of lame in how that happens because you already know what's going on and they drag it out like you don't know, but never mind about that. It's a good action flick and I've always been a big Harrison Ford fan. You'll enjoy it if you're into actioners, Ford, Gary Oldman, or politics. Well, maybe not the last one... still, a good film. "},{"Title":"Highly Imaginative","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What an improbable piece of crap.  At least with the Indiana Jones and the James Bond series you knew it was a spoof.  This masterpiece, apparently, wants to be taken somewhat seriously, but that is hard to do.  Maybe it's just me, but this movie appeared to be doing high camp at the same time it trying to be serious.  Jurgen Prochnow's part is short and sweet; he must have needed the money to do this bit.  He's much more believable in just about anything else I've seen him do.  As for the rest of the cast, they are just as credible as Harrison Ford in his GI Joe cum POTUS persona.  I can believe that a President with a military background might be able to handle AF-1, if he had been a pilot, and that's the background of Ford's character. But this guy is also a Special Ops type -- and quite handy with just about any automatic weapon you'd like to name.  I saw this one by accident, and that is the only way I would have seen it. "},{"Title":"Youll Laugh,Youll Cry,Youll Hurl.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  OK,I know thats not a very original tagline but the novel thing about this movie is that you will do these things in the wrong places! I had all kinds of sarcastic comments to make,but i will cut straight to the chase.Skip the entire movie and go to the last 10 minutes when AF1 crashes into the sea.Its CGI of course and probably the worst example of that process ive ever seen.I slammed CGI on a message board and someone replied that it was better than paper plates on string.If you are reading this,eat your words and than look for some paper plates. "},{"Title":"ELECT PRESIDENT FORD!","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air force one is probably as exciting as films get. Although it's slightly silly the film retains a believable ambiance that keeps the entrtainment flowing in a fast paced manner. the performances are more than believable and the film overloads on patriotism but after this film Anyone would be inclined to vote for Harrison Ford as Presdent of teh United States. LOL. As a group of vicious terrorists overtake a pvt jet holding the president and his family. ASnd that people is about as complex as it gets. Just sit back and enjoy a truly great popcorn flick! "},{"Title":"Blue-on-Blue","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler WarningThey'd never make this movie again.  Correction with a cowboy for president, they'd remake it with him single-handedly saving the hostages in full Rambo fashion.  So many films try to imitate the basics of the Die Hard Scenario, but only go with the bare bones.  Thus, they are weaker and stupider and natural selection hereby rules them out.  There's more to it than bullets, fireballs, and obscenities.  Here's a rundown of the elements1) Communication the Unlucky Protagonist is constantly in contact with the outside world for support, yet it always making his own actions as he sees necessary.  That's a strike against 'Siege, here they got it right.  Addendum more importantly, the UP has contact with the Charismatic Antagonist that results in constant banter filled with plenty of character sparks.  Only Speed comes close to matching it.2) Unhip villains another flunking grade for Speed, Rock, and 'Siege.  The villains aren't supposed to be cooler than the hero, only more sophisticated.  No catchy quotes here and Gary Oldman turns in one of his worst performances thanks to a devoutly communist script written in full stereotype (not satire).3) Pacing The DHS doesn't require introductory battles.  In here, in Speed, and The Rock that element is forgotten.  This is the only thing 'Siege got right, but why do so many DHS movies feel the need to add another countdown to oblivion?  In Speed it's the bus disintegrating, in The Rock and 'Siege it's the oncoming airstrike, and here it's the plane crashing.  How boring of a plot idea is that?Overall, another poor movie with nothing to learn from.  Wolfgang Petersen hasn't gotten out of his Hollywood money pit.  Let's see how Troy winds up. (10%) "},{"Title":"US President as Hero","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yet another movie with the US president as hero (think ID4). But basically American propaganda that says 'don't mess with the USA cos the president will kick your ass'. Considering the reality of GW Bush dressed up recently in pilot gear to go visit a post-Iraq destroyer, it actually is quite prosiac. Anyway, violent nonsense - yes I'm sure a president can out shoot five or six bullet proofed-vested hardcore terrorists in a confined space! But beside the stupidity, the scene with the russian president sweating, swearing and drinking vodka because he has to release a terrorist general to save the US president is hilarious, as is the moment when said terrorist general (with fake beard) gets shot at the last moment as the prisoners sing a very harmonious liberation song. Even Sadam Hussein gets a piece of the action. (You have to ask if Hollywood movies like this helped grease up the US public so they'd believe invading countries like Afganhistan and Iraq was justified). I usually like Harrison Ford movies. And Glen Close, but her character does more damage to high profile female politicians than anything else - she comes across as hormonal and over emotional!Really, in twenty years time they'll be teaching this in propaganda sociology classes the world over. "}{"Title":"Well Acted and Directed, Boring Average Plot","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One is a well directing action film by Wolfgang Peterson and a well acted actioner starring Harrison Ford, Wendy Crewson and Gary Oldman.  There's always a brave female character lead, in these films that star male action heroes, who stands up to the villain these days.  However the action of the film is routine and doesn't try at all to be original.  There's so many deaths in the end of the film that anyone would start laughing at their repetition.  It's worse for these co-stars than in a Friday The 13th film.  In the movie theater it's great to watch but on the small screen of the TV, it's too much.  On the plus side, Wendy Crewson comes off looking like she was made for made=for-TV movies.  For her age she's pretty and she demands respect in her role.  Glen Close plays the vice-president, who's more of a joke than an actual character.  I doubt I'd vote for the Ford-Close ticket soon. "},{"Title":"In my top 50...","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I quite enjoyed this movie. The action chemistry of Ford and Oldman is unsurpassed by anything else. The story is also effectively good, and despite the recent hesitancy towards making movies about terrorism, these older ones can stand out saying, Don't blame us. This is our way of showing the world what already happens. And we were here before that stuff happened, its not our fault. So far, this is probably my favorite Harrison Ford movie, aside from Star Wars. And despite a scene of blatantly obvious computer animation, it will remain in my top 50. "},{"Title":"American Feel-Good-ism","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If your not an american, watch out, seeing this movie could be coma inducing. Hell, im an american, and I could barely watch it.I have a theory about why this movie was madeAt the time this movie came out, Bill Clinton was in office. The country was in turmoil over his fully exposed scandals etc. There really wasnt much to be proud of, so here Hollywood comes out with a feel-good-about-your-president movie, where the president single-handedly takes out a very cliche'd russian terrorist squad, and saves the day.This all would be ok, if the movie didnt take itself so seriously. But as such it just leaves one rolling his eyes.Also I would like to say Harrison Ford seems to take himself too seriously nowadays. I thought he did his best work in Indiana Jones, where he was enjoyable to watch. In AF1 he is so serious it is almost unbearable. "},{"Title":"action-packed","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I like this movie because it was action-packed and suspenseful. At first, I didn't want to see it but my dad made me. I'm glad he did. The DVD version has better sound quality and sharper imaging. I only give it four stars out of five because, even when the cold war was over, this American-made movie portrayed Russians as terrorizing commies. "},{"Title":"One of Harrison Ford's most entertaining action thrillers. - spoilers","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *** 1/2 out of ****From beginning to end, Air Force One is a relentlessly gripping thrill ride, cumulating suspense with one superbly taut sequence after another. You can chalk this one up as another success for superstar Harrison Ford and director Wolfgang Peterson, who's consistently been one of the better action filmmakers around. Ford stars as James Marshall, the president of the United States. He and his cabinet have just recently made the crucial decision to go after a renegade general named Radek, who threatens to bring back a state of communism to Russia. The mission to capture him is a success, but not long after Marshall and his family board Air Force One on a flight back to the U.S., Russian terrorists posing as news reporters hijack the flight, complete with machine guns and heavy weaponry. Their demands to have Radek released or else a hostage (50 total) will be executed every half-hour.  But in their midst is Marshall, who remains hidden in the cargo bay, ready to take back the plane and save his family. Despite an occasionally ridiculous story and quite a few implausibilities, Air Force One never fails to work as a nail-biting actioner. The suspense is palpable, thanks to likeable characters and hissable villains. There's also the sense of iminent danger and gutsy unpredictability that director Peterson infuses the film with. Hostages are killed every half-hour, and perhaps even those you expect to live through the situation are killed off pretty quickly; these terrorists are not the slightest bit unflinching or unwavering, making them effective (if not also one-dimensional) villains. I've heard a lot of complaints about the seemingly never-ending conclusion, but for me, it just made the film that much more an unpredictable roller coaster ride, with one edge-of-the-seat cliffhanger after another. The action sequences are the requisite shootouts and fistfights, but are truly exciting, and the fact that this is all set on board the world's most famous aircraft adds frantic urgency to the proceedings. There are also a lot of fantastic stunts, the most thrilling one featuring Ford dangling in mid-air, being reeled inside an aircraft with a cable and strap. Harrison Ford has one of the most commanding presences of any Hollywood actor, and Air Force One is almost entirely his show.  James Marshall may be too damn perfect for a politician, but this is a red-blooded action flick, and I want a hero I can unabashedly cheer for from beginning to end, and Marshall is just that kind of guy. Gary Oldman's the villian, and in true Oldman style, you can expect lots of hollering in a somewhat unintelligible accent (which honestly doesn't sound particularly Russian, as it's meant to). Jerry Goldsmith's score is excellent, giving the film additional intensity, and even revving up excitement during the quieter moments. The main theme is a bit overly patriotic, but undeniably rousing. Hard to say, but this is probably the famed composer's best score since Rudy. Aside from the logical flaws in the story, the only time the film really stumbles is in the visual effects category. Don't get me wrong, most of the CGI is superb, but there's at least one scene near the end that boasts probably the most hilariously unconvincing (and disappointing) CGI-rendered shot I've ever seen in a big-studio production.Air Force One may be a little silly and implausible, but it's irony-absent presentation is refreshing in a time when just about every other film out there is trying to be as annoyingly sarcastic as possible. In this era of Die-Hard rip-offs, Air Force One is easily one of the best, and for my money, it's more entertaining than the original Die Hard itself.  "},{"Title":"A President we wished we had.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    Wolfgang Petersons' film Air Force One is a terrific and entertaining action film. The movie tells the story of a US President and his family who is held hostage by radical hard-line Communist terrorist. The film reminds us of the Die-Hard like action movies in which this single hero tries to save innocent lives as best as he can. Harrison Ford gives a magnificent performance as the President who tries to do what is right no matter the risk of his life. He projects the image of a President we all wish we had who would even sacrifice his life for others. Ford's President appears as a mix of Ronald Reagan and John F. Kennedy all rolled into one. Gary Oldman is great as usual for his  performance as a terrorist. Oldman's performance is a large contrast to Alan Rickman's Hans Gruber in Die Hard in which Oldman's character is not driven by profit but by a notion that only violence is the only solution in life for he was a trained killer there exist no other alternatives for him he feels like his existence is threaten by a new world where rigid Stalinist doctrines is viewed as obsolete. Glen Close also deserves kudos for her performance as the Vice-President who remains steadfast loyal to the President no mater what the cost. True this film is Hollywood fantasy but it takes us to our imagination of a President which we could be proud of to the time of Presidents like Reagan, Roosevelt, Eisenhower, and Kennedy instead of Nixon, Carter, and Clinton.   "},{"Title":"Thilling!","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Sure, it's totally made up Hollywood thrills.  That's why they call it fiction.  It has moments that are as exciting as any of Ford's films. Ford does a great job.  He always does better when he has great lines to say, and Oldman does his usual A+ job.  Unfortunatley, he didn't coach Ford on a Russian accent.  It would have been helpful a couple of years later.  A really fun movie. "},{"Title":"Average terrorist movie","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  6/10Air Force One is one of those films that shouldn't be taken too seriously, and I believe that films like this should be viewed with an entertainment factor in mind. Air Force One, the President of the US's personal plane, gets taken over by terrorists who have become embroiled in the takeover because of a renewed terrorist policy by the President (Harrison Ford). Gary Oldman plays the main terrorist threat, a rebel dissenter who is radical by his very nature, and as always is exceptional in his portrayal. The screenplay is good without being too impressive and the general plot means that the film is enjoyable and action packed. Ford is reliable playing the President who has to save the day whilst trying not to breach his terrorist pledges. However, there are far to many action film cliches and some over the top scenes which ensured that I was only mildly satisfied. An alright film. "},{"Title":"Great Fun, but not worthy of repeat...","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Gary Oldman is delectably wicked as a Russian terrorist who hijacks Air Force One with the US President (Harrison Ford) and his family aboard. Having vowed never to negotiate with terrorists, the president has to use all his skills as a former soldier to devise a cunning plan to save the day. Great Fun, (But does not stand up to Repeated Viewing) "},{"Title":"A bad concept that loses its way long before the end.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   WARNING SPOILERS`The plane has been hijacked, only President Harrison Ford can save us now'. I don't understand how everyone is able to overlook this highly flawed concept. It's bad enough that Harrison Ford was 56 at the time and playing the film's hero, but why oh why did they make him the President of the United States. It wouldn't have been so bad if this was a political drama/thriller, but Air Force One is strictly a `good guy vs. bad guy' action affair. Now I'll give it some credit, Air Force one isn't a complete disaster and in some scenes it has its moments. Gary Oldman is the film's uber-baddie (as he usually is). He brings that dark sadistic edge along, as he does in most films. Glenn Close is also very good as the vice president. But I wasn't very fond of William H. Macy's rather unconvincing performance as a puppet-like hostage. Then again, the film keeps a balanced level of intensity throughout, that is up until 20 minutes from the end. After Gary Oldman gets killed the film loses its pace and really should have stopped there. Another thing I hate are those macho-cool phrases that someone like James Bond might say. The fact that they are used in this would-be political thriller is an insult to our intelligence. If you want some loud, plotless action yarn then watch Air Force One. Otherwise, avoid avoid avoid.  "}{"Title":"Well...You don't see a president whoop terrorists ass everyday","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  ***Starring Harrison Ford, Gary Oldman, and a bunch of terrorists.The president of the United States, also an ex-soldier, must recapture the plane from the terrorists and be sure everyone is safe.  I can only imagine George W. Bush fight terroristsBush, Hey, terrorist! Fight like a REAL man and try to beat my high score in Tetris! Then we'll see who's the bigger man!Well...that's not going to happen.  Ford does a fine job as the president.  The movie is half believable, but you got to get over that.  There are some undoubted flaws but you have to get over that, too (not huge flaws).  It has some nice twists, good plot, and fun villains.I recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Code Red - Highly Entertaining","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am sure that AF1 could be used as terrorist training video produced by UBL and distributed across Al Jazeera. The similarities of the movie and real life are almost identical. For one James Marshall and George W Bush are both involved in Central Asia, waging a war against Islam, I meant terrorism. Unfortunately the similarities of real life and fiction should end there, as the Harrison Ford's portrayal of a president seems to be more believable.  "},{"Title":"One of the five worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just plain awful. Ford is his usual wooden self, Oldman was clearly just in it for the payday, and the plot - such that it is - is utterly ridiculous, even by action-adventure movie standards. And when a movie hands you uninspired, two-dimensional characters and a totally unbelievable plot line, you get a movie that makes no connection whatsoever. In other words, it's boring. Forty minutes into it, I found myself looking at my watch, trying to calculate how much longer I'd have to sit there watching this dreck.If you're looking for a way to kill a couple of hours, I'd recommend repeatedly smashing yourself in the face with a ball-peen hammer before I'd suggest that you watch Air Force One. "},{"Title":"Not great","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One a textbook example of mediocre Hollywood action flicks. Bearing a bland and predictable storyline (c'mon, like, when do the bad guys ever win in these films?) although, on the other hand, it boasts great acting from Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman. This is standard no-brainer popcorn-munching fare in the ilk of Armageddon, MI-2, The Mummy etc. Well worth a rental but only warrants a purchase if you are a fan or have the money to be throwing around on mediocre films.  "},{"Title":"Not worth much","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The effects are good, but the action gets tiresome.  Ford is his usuall strong faced self. Oldman steals the show as the icy terrorist.  I found myself pulling for him through out.  Watch for his count down to the execution of a flight attendent. Some very good actors in small support (William H. Macy is one of note) but its not worth seeing more than once.  If you have never seen it, take a look. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Real life draft dodger Harrison Ford playing a make believe Medal of Honor winner huh?  Well if you can stomach that then you see that this is about a hero stuck in an enclosed space taking on terrorists who fatuously separate to take him on one on one.  I liked this one better when it was called `Passenger 57', and I liked that one better when it was called `Under Siege' and I liked that one better when it was called `Die Hard' and I liked that one better when it was called&#133;.oh well, you get the point. "},{"Title":"Predictable Summer Fare","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford is President James Marshall and he's caught on Air Force One with a bunch of terrorists. That's the movie in a nutshell. Any simarility between him and the character of James Ryan he played in the Tom Clancy films is probably unintentional, but I couldn't help but see him as the same man. His character isn't that deep or well written enough to separate them apart and neither is any other character including the head Russian terrorist played by Gary Oldman. Who might I mention really gets to flex his acting muscle as an ultra left wing nut Ivan Korshunov. I keep thinking the only thing that could make him seem more scary is if they had named him Boris. That's sarcasm, folks.There's really not much positive to say about Air Force One. It's a predictable mainstream Hollywood action vehicle with nothing terribly standing out. The direction is adequate, the story is threadbare and the cast just goes through the paces for the most part. Needless to say this flick isn't on the same level of the Tom Clancy / Harrison Ford collaborations.The underlying story mechanism can be somewhat excused for being predictable (we know the plane has to come down sometime - it's a plane after all), but with subplots treading cliché terroritory and very little character spice or variety in scene placement, Air Force One goes down like Chinese food - appetizing at first, left feeling hunger an hour later. Noteworthy is how terribly wasted Glenn Close is cast as the female Vice President while some of the special effects are just downright laughable. In the end, Air Force One is a movie that offers little surprise and very little reward for sitting through the entire film. "},{"Title":"Decent plane adventure.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  -The Best The convincible performances delivered by Harrison Ford and Glenn Close. The background serving as the excuse for the terrorists. -The Worst As the movie is coming to an end, it once more relies on the American President saving the situation, as well as killing the majority of the bad guys. - Rating  6/10American President  James Marshal (Harrison Ford) is getting back to his proud homeland after an important conference in Russia. Although, after boarding Air Force One, the uninvited guests come along and board it as well. These uninvited guests board the Air Force One excusing as ordinary journalists, while they really are Russian men which are secretly planning to free the extremist General Ivan Radek. As the right opportunity came along, the hijackers killed many of the President's staff as well as keep the rest of them hostage, among them are the president's wife and daughter. As soon as the plane was overtook by the terrorists, the President and a pod disappeared from the plane, as they assumed the president escaped via the pod, which turns out to be wrong as the pod was found empty and unopened. Never knowing the President's current location, vice president Kathryn Bennett (Glenn Close) is now in charge of the situation until the President's reappearance. All the hijackers want is to free General Radek, and so they say, the American President was responsible for his prison. Vice President refuses to give the order of free the General as she believes that the president didn't die or left the plane. As soon as the hijackers learn that there is someone on the lower part of the plane, that isn't  one of them they warn that if the mysterious man doesn't reveal himself the hostages are going to die one by one in every five minutes.Revealing the rest of  the plot would be giving to much away from the movie's thrilling and adventuring action. Wolfgang Petersen revealed himself as a reasonable action director in this film as it relies on a plot somehow well written as it gave him, once more is talent for action and dramatic sequences. Technically this film works considerably, the sound design and performance were outstanding (nominated for Academy Award's best sound),  some special effects work out good, while some of them look somehow cheesy or computer gamed and lead the viewer on how they could have been achieved better than in the current sequence. The movie's  main theme is known to everybody as this is an often extraordinary characteristic of  Oscar winning composer Jerry Goldsmith. Alongside this is the flawless cinematography and editing. After all these ups and downs this is an entertaining Sunday afternoon family movie, which serves right as a matter of learning to young teens.Overall a 6 out of 10.      "},{"Title":"Great Movie but very cheesy","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford is great in this movie as always. And Gary Oldman is grate and not over the top as he sometimes can be. Some of the movie was that cheesy that it made me laugh (but this made it more enjoyable). The action was great and the hole film was well paced. "},{"Title":"This is a dire movie!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is riddled with horrendous cliche, plot holes a mile wide and technical howlers! Anyone who knows the slightest details about aviation will be screaming in frustration at the screen while this is showing, for example1. A major plot device is that the most sophisticated Boeing-747 on the planet can't land itself on autopilot. Oh really!? Try pointing that out to any commerical 747 pilot happily landing on ILS at Heathrow every few minutes.2. Firing fully automatic assault rifles inside the fuselage of an aircraft is definitely going to end up with holes in the pressure skin and immediate depressurisation; except in AirForce-1 of course. DOH!3. Thirty or so presidential staff are parachuted off the aircraft to 'safety'. Despite the fact that they have never jumped before, are at 15,000 feet over eastern Europe wearing shirt sleeves and are dropping into an unknown landing area (water?, road?, power lines?, war-zone?) they still have gormless smiles on their faces!4. The President attacks and over powers a 'terrorist'. Despite the struggle lasting 15 seconds and the 'terrorist' being fully conscious and within a few feet of his colleagues he chooses not to cry out for help. Instead he soldiers on alone so that Harrison Ford doesn't get discovered. Oh come on!5. There is no physical way that the President could have avoided ejecting from the aircraft in the escape pod. That was obvious.6. Glenn Close!7. The Russians do exactly what the USA tells them. Yeah right!8. Simplified HUDs on the F15s and MIGs. This is standard for Hollywood (see TopGun), they think that a real HUD is too confusing but fail to appreciate that ANY HUD is too confusing to anyone inexperienced with symbology so why not stay authentic?9. When the 'Terrorists' have control of AirForce 1 then they lose control of the aircraft to the autopilot when under missile attack. Strangely this is not the case when Harrison Ford is flying the plane...10. The White House scenes are totally unconvincing and cringe making. The thought that a Vice-President of the USA would burst into tears during a crisis situation is beyond laughable.There are many more like this but I can't be bothered to waste my time listing them. Basically it's a no brainer of the first order and I'm sick of having my intelligence insulted. Oh, and the politics of the  Gary Oldman character were far more plausible then anything else in the whole movie yet he was the crazy one! Go figure... "}{"Title":"One of the greatest thrill rides of all time!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  AIR FORCE ONE, in my opinion, is one of the greatest thrill rides of all time! I was REALLY scared by a little of the violence. When President Marshall (Harrison Ford) said, Let's go to Barbados, I laughed a little. If I were in that hijacking situation, I would be REALLY terrified. I thought that Vice-President Bennett (Glenn Close) looked beautiful in her outfit. Korshunov (Gary Oldman) was good, too. Good, but a LITTLE scary. If you like high-powered action movies, this is the one to see. To all you Harrison Ford fans who have not seen this movie, I HIGHLY recommend it. When you see it, buckle your seat belts and hold on tight for a ride of non-stop action and thrills. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air force one is a good to average movie which features good action seqences and good acting. Everyone in this movie sounds serious about what they are doing and that should be. Harrison Ford is superb as the president and Gary Oldman does a great job as well. In fact there is not much that slows this movie down. One thing that I noticed though is that Harrison is is slowing down but you can't really blame the guy for that. "},{"Title":"Big plane, Russians with a death threat on thier heads and Harrison Ford.What do you expect.","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a action flick. Do not let that escape you're mind because you will spend the film pointing out unrealistic things. If you do keep thjat in your mind you realise that this is a good action flick. The films cast, whiles on paper leads you to belive that Harrison Ford will be carrying everyone.That is not the case the cast work well together. However as a teenager the Firearms carry more weight. "},{"Title":"Review of a film about the dangers of flying","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First I want to say that the film isn't like other Petersen Movies, there are less things to think about in it but some more action.That makes the film more interesting for more people but it isn't Petersens style. I even saw Das Boot and In the line of fire and so a picture of Petersen formed in my head.This film breaks it. But I don't want to say the movie is bad.There is hard action and good dramatic scenes (especially the showdown).The story about a very very brave President is just unbelievable (I can't imagen Bill Clinton or now George W. Bush running through a large airplane and killing hijackers.Sorry.) So in the end a good film for sitting down in the armchair at the evening but no film which will stay in the heads of the watchers.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't deliver","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay, it was obvious that all the characters would be one dimensional, the plot ridiculous and the emotional manipulation evident, but couldn't they pay a little more attention to the action? The visual effects are extremely unrealistic! Harrison Ford is the only saving grace, but not to the point to make the film worth seeing (Gary Oldman didn't work for me and I generally like anti-American villains, not to mention Glenn Close who was annoying!) "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford In A Bad Film...","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *Semi-Spoiler Warning*Mr. Ford really has made some fantastic movies in his career, but the usual high quality of his films over recent years has not been present.  A lot of it has to do with the scripts themselves - I'm not going to say it's not his fault though, because he DOES decide to be in these movies - no one is holding a gun to his head.My apologies for the brutal honest there. Anyway, 'Air Force One' IS a very poor story which had me sitting uncomfortably for two-thirds of the movie (and I was only 14 or 15 at the time too!).  The script is down-right horrible due to its dependency on suspension of belief that may very well leave you, the viewer, floating indefinitely.Example An U.S. fighter flying into an enemy air-to-air missile to protect Air Force One.  Does anything else need to be said?I make it a point to review acting and other cinematic elements in reviews, but this one example has me so worked-up, I just don't think I can do it...3/10  "},{"Title":"One exciting film","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The story here is similar to Passenger 57, but still manages to be original. All the actors gave very credible performances, especially Ford and Oldman, and the set was realistic looking. However, when the Prez started whipping expert Speznaz troopers in hand to hand combat I did cringe a bit. But, hey, it was fun! The viewer knows the outcome from the start, of course, and all the bullets flying around should have done more damage to the craft, but it was still one of the most hair raising, tense films I've ever seen. Made me wonder is security could really be that easily breached; seems the thumbprint bit wouldn't have worked that smoothly.  "},{"Title":"Suspension of disbelief? Way too hard.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  (spoiler warning)At some points, this film is fairly gripping and sometimes even exciting. And then again, there are moments that are just plain awful, stupid and contrived. And that makes it hard for me to decide whether I even like it or not.I just want to say that I think the effects are worse than I thought possible in a film of this budget. The 747 looked more like a piece of plastic when crashing into the ocean. And the maneuver at the Ramstein airbase was...ridiculous. Bah...I just get caught up on the many snags in this film, and that makes it hard for me to suspend my disbelief. "},{"Title":"Cool president in overblown movie","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's rather fun to watch Harrison Ford as a cool, larger-than-life President as he takes on a terrorist group single-handedly. The movie, though, soon enough gets blown all out of proportions and looses its credibility. I got a hunch though that Presidents like this haven't been around since old George Washington or Thomas Jefferson. Fun to watch at times, but ultimately silly. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably square and over-acted","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was such a huge disappointment.  Harrison Ford, who is arguably one of the best actors around today plays a role as a bland, President of the U.S. who also happens to be a bad-ass action hero-commando.  The acting is so over-the-top that *I* started to feel airsick.  Glenn Close's role as a paralyzed Vice President was laughable, and Gary Oldman's stock interpretation of a third-world terrorist was cliched and boring. "}{"Title":"Very Unbelievable","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I persevered through the first hour and a half of Air Force One.  But eventually all of the implausible, impossible and downright unbelievable scenes took their toll.  I know it's Hollywood and it's entertainment but the movie takes way to much liberty with the plot and becomes cartoonish.  The other thing I really didn't like about this movie is it's heavy reliance on computer generated graphics for everything that takes place in the sky outside of the aircraft.  It only serves to reinforce the phony vibe of this movie.  I didn't watch the last 20 minutes--and I finish almost all of the movies that I rent. "},{"Title":"Great acting and great entertainment. Follows the actionmovie-manual step by step","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One (Please excuse me for some spelling mistakes)Exciting movie where Ford is playing the president of the United states and where russian terrorists highjack his plane, Air Force One, and holding his wife, daughter and ''crew'' hostage. When everybody thinks that the president is dead he strikes back in a way nobody ever suspected. As usual the americans get some kind of patriotic ''we are the best''-feelings and because of that they let the russians be the bad guys. I want to laugh. It's either Germany, Russia or some asian country to import some karate-guy as 'Evil Ed'. The great acting raises the grade and even though the obvious Die Hard-gimmick still lives on in this movie, it is a perfect option for an action-fan.  "},{"Title":"Great acting and great entertainment. Follows the actionmovie-manual step by step.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Air Force One (Please excuse me for some spelling mistakes)Exciting movie where Ford is playing the president of the United states and where russian terrorists highjack his plane, Air Force One, and holding his wife, daughter and ''crew'' hostage. When everybody thinks that the president is dead he strikes back in a way nobody ever suspected. As usual the americans get some kind of patriotic ''we are the best''-feelings and because of that they let the russians be the bad guys. I want to laugh. It's either Germany, Russia or some asian country to importate some karate-guy as 'Evil Ed'. The great acting raises the grade and even though the obvious Die Hard-gimmick still lives on in this movie, it is a perfect option for an action-fan.   "},{"Title":"Air Force One","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford makes an entertaining Commander in Chief aboard a hijacked jet in this thrill ride from Wolfgang Peterson. As with In the Line of Fire, Peterson's film delivers jolt after jolt with a great pace, superb suspense and a top notch cast of Ford, Oldman, Close and Dean Stockwell.  "},{"Title":"good president...","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" the American president in the movie is a good president. but in real life every president is devil or devil's advocate..the folks in the movie are good folks..in reality every one in air force one is bad.. among the most degenerate human beings.so when oldman tells us the crap about Iraq. it can apply to reality , but probably not the moviehowever after finishing the watching, one thing is sure Wolfgang Peterson is not one of the most corrupt Hollywood directorsabout the movie itself. I only notice one thing, it has an unyielding attitude. I can recall most movies(perhaps all of them and by any country) have hostages first principle. so, the movie is a little different and a lot more realistic.... my rating is 4/10 , better than most(80-90%) hollyweird flicks made after 1993..but still mediocre in most aspects,also there are two minor magic negro roles that aren't convincing, know why after 1993 now? and ccthemovieman is right again..noteI give it 1 just to let it be read by more people.. "},{"Title":"Typical white hat/black hat drama with cool FX.","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Seems like the only really negative comment was from franbelgar back in 2002. Ah, he's from Singapore anyway and clearly anti-American. He's probably a terrorist himself - loves to see the indians beat the cowboys, couldn't expect him to like a movie like this. I personally loved it, but here's the thing, you gotta see it with surround sound. The special effects are so much better when you can feel it. My favorite one is when the president (Ford) is fighting the terrorists in the back of the plane and you can here the clinks as the shell casings bounce off the metal floor. Very realistic. I was surprised at the emotional depth of the characters, I mean Oldman is always great at whatever he does but even Glenn Close and Harrison Ford turn in exceptional performances. And Wendy Crewson - very tasty. So for an action packed, feel good movie, this is the one. "},{"Title":"Excessively patriotic nonsense - 42%","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" However much I may enjoy my action movies (and I do), there are several flaws within the genre that are begging to be addressed. Most stories feature terrorists with a purpose, whether it's the theft of nuclear weapons or cold hard cash. They're nearly always foreign and the hero is considered by everyone else to be a weedy individual, about as likely to save the day as Robert Downey Jr is to stick with his rehab. But the hero is actually a mean, ass-kicking machine who promptly proceeds to kill the baddies, save the head baddie for last (and a suitably OTT demise) and comes good just in the nick of time. How many films have you seen like that? A prime example of how bad things have got touches down with Air Force One which is quite possibly the silliest action film I've seen.Harrison Ford plays all-American President James Marshall, who has been visiting his new buddies in Russia after a prominent Soviet dissident (Jürgen Prochnow) is jailed. Having wrapped up the diplomacy and announced to the world that his foreign policy is about to crack down on terrorism (now where have I heard that before?), he suffers the most extraordinary run of bad luck after Air Force One (the President's private jet) is hijacked by Russian terrorists led by Ivan Korshunov (Gary Oldman). Holding his family hostage, Marshall can do the only thing he can - take the fight to the terrorists while his Vice-President (Glenn Close) co-ordinates the rescue from the White House.Air Force One puts you under no illusion whatsoever as to the nature of the film. At first, I felt sure that this was a Jerry Bruckheimer movie because all the signs were there - big actors in the main roles, suitably BIG action and explosions and the manly cheers when it all gets solved. But no, this stodgy mess belongs to Wolfgang The Day After Tomorrow Petersen and suddenly, it all makes sense. Petersen seems to delight in themes of American patriotism in the face of adversity and this film is as flag-waving, anthem-singing, school-shooting American as you could wish it to be. Think about this for a minute... the President of the United States of America running around with a machine gun, blowing away those pesky Communists who've hijacked his private jet which happens to have his family on board! Are they serious? The fact that it's left to the President to kill every single terrorist (not so difficult as he's a Vietnam vet, winner of blah-blah medals and etc) as the stupefyingly dumb Security Services do nothing but get shot is one that Petersen clearly thinks is credible. Not nearly as credible as Godzilla moving home (and oceans) to eat Manhattan instead of Tokyo but there you go.The story isn't helped by the actors. Ford and Oldman are astonishingly wooden (Oldman's accent could best be described as humourous) and bit-support from everybody else is pretty much filled with clichéd shots of concerned politicians, grizzled military brass demanding something violent be done with fighter jets and tearful weeping from the President's wife (Wendy Crewson) and daughter (Liesel Matthews). If you like action films then you might get a kick out of this but it won't blow you away. I think the only decent all-action film of the Nineties was Speed and that is so much more the better film, despite it's equally implausible plot. Speed had humour, exciting set-pieces, high production values and a premise so outlandish that even the characters seem to acknowledge the fact. Here, someone says that the President may be our only hope in this situation and nobody bats an eyelid. Air Force One is horribly dated, unoriginal and poorly made in places and it's sad to see Han Solo reduced to this. "},{"Title":"Good action, otherwise it makes me throw up.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" How tasteless. When I was a kid, corny patriotism didn't bother me, but now.. and this film is the perfect example. The evil and devilish communists hijack air force one, but it's a good thing that we have the symbolism of freedom and capitalism, the American president (who of course is a former war hero etc). He kicks the living s**t out of the bad russians and the world (yeah, sure) and especially God (yeah, SURE) is on his side. There are moments when the terrorists make arguments on their behalf, like You murdered a hundred thousand Iraqis to save a nickel on a gallon of gas!, which is basically true, but because the movie has to make money and the American audience has to like it, the film has to be made politically correct for them and the terrorists must thereby be proved wrong. And by doing that, Air Force One becomes just another film that is designed to kiss everyone's a**. And that sucks. Nobody does this to the United States. Please.** / ***** "},{"Title":"This was originally intended as a comedy, right???","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Is this film a joke or what? This film also makes Air Force One's security seem as top notched as a  commercial airliners!  Harrison Ford looks (and acts) tired in this film; and apparently is only in it for  the pay check (Leslie Nielsen must've originally turned down the roll as the president). The acting is  toony from start to finish (especially the final act which is purely played for laughs)! Why is everyone  running around the White House like decapitated chickens? Close, as  the Vice Prez looks and acts  incompetent. Plus Stockwell, as the Defense Secretary acts like a big baby (I half expected someone  to give him lollipop after a while)! Not to mention Oldman's stab at a Russian accent, which was  worth a few chuckles every now and then (how in the heck can I take terrorist seriously again?)Rating 3 "},{"Title":"Air Force One review - by Average Man Critic","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Story -1.  Terrorists highjack AF1 and hold the President and cabinet hostage in an attempt to free their imprisoned leader.Characters -0.  The bad guys never seemed bad and the good guy was decent at best.Acting -0.  Harrison Ford nor Gary Oldman gave their best in this one.  Ford seems as though he is tired of starring in these action movies and Oldman was not convincing and I found myself laughing at that accent.Cinematography -1.  Wolfgang has a nack for directing action movies.  The scene in which the fuel plane catches on fire and explodes in mid air was excellent to say the least and the end was well done as well, although the computer generated images were very apparent.Beginning -1.  The soldiers parachuting onto the palace, followed by a shoot out with the guards to capture the corrupt leader, was a great way to start the film.End -0.  By the time the end comes, you are so tired of explosions, fist fights and gun play, that you really don't wish to see anymore.  Not a good sign for an ACTION movie.Attention Holding -0.  As I said above... Memorable -0.  Air Force One played like a bad tv movie, when you shut off the television, you ask yourself what did I just watch?... Oh yeah Air Force One.Could Watch Again -0.  I tried to watch this movie over, but I couldn't make it through.  It doesn't have very much appeal.Full Package -0.  Decent acting, decent action and a decent story just doesn't stand the test of time and after the first viewing there really is no need to watch the film over.  Air Force One = 3.  Needed better actors and a better director.  If Simon West had the movie it would have been MUCH better.   "}{"Title":"Jingoistic ****","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yeah right - an aging humanitarian American president takes on and beats a squad of crack Russian commandos. Wrap me up in that flag! "},{"Title":"laughable..","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was thinking about writing just laughable but then I changed my mind. This movie is so ridiculous and almost propagandistic that I even find it hard to laugh AT it. The one thing that bothered me the most was the portraying of the president as some sort of superhuman that not only is the most powerful man on earth but also is a loving devoted family father and a courageous hero who, risking his own life, pulls mind boggling stunts in order to beat the hijackers. OK! I know that you've got to be an A+ person to become president of the U.S (with exception for G.W.B) but this is too much! Harrison Ford is a respectable actor but only god knows why he made a blunder such as this one. There is one good thing about this movie though, the stunts! But that's it. I don't recommend this movie but if you still want to see it you need to know what you're getting yourself into. "},{"Title":"GET OFF MY PLANE !!!!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film from the master of suspense and excitement, Wolfgang Petersen, will really have you on the edge of your seat thruout. Forget what is plausible and what is possible and just enjoy an EXTREMELY exciting action movie about the presidential plane getting high-jacked in mid-air with the First Family on board. Gary Oldman is excellent as the main high-jacker although he does put on the accent a bit heavily. But why aren't the presidents of the United States like Harrison Ford ? He fights like a Marine and flies a 747 like it is a piece of cake............only Michael Douglas in `Mr. President' may be equally capable and charming. In any case this just MAY be the most exciting film I have ever seen! 9 out of 10 for great craftsmanship and sheer excitement and entertainment value!  "},{"Title":"Unpleasant movie","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't like this movie, though Harrison Ford is always worth watching.First of all, it's totally absurd that those terrorists open fire with their heavy weapons on the plane without causing serious damage or affecting its flying.Secondly, Gary Oldman enjoys his trick of lowering his voice most of the time, so that the viewer has to turn up the sound volume of the film to find out what he's murmuring about. Suddenly he would burst out shouting and make the viewer turn down the sound quickly, then he would lower his voice again, preparing to give you another shock. How many times can an audience tolerate this kind of trick? "},{"Title":"One of Ford's best","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wolfgang Peterson's Air Force One is a wham-bam action thriller that takes you into a plane which won't stop (because of terrorists taking over Air Force One).  Harrison Ford delivers his best and prevails with flying colors.  His performance is mathced with Indiana Jones, yet diminished by others.  Great intensety from the director of Das Boot bring this film to be cool.  A+ "},{"Title":"God damn it this is weak!!!","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A few facts Harrison Ford sucks.The plot sucks.This movie sucks.I mean can't people just try to make a movie for once that actually makes sense??!! Fat chance of hijacking Air Force One and then getting killed by the president!! I mean COME ON!!! And using Harrison Ford for the lead part.... now that was stupid since it was a long time ago that Harrison Ford actually could act. This movie should have been banned because it totally sucks!!Never ever see this movie!! EVER!! "},{"Title":"An abomination against humanity...","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What on earth were Gary Oldman, Harrison Ford and Glenn Close thinking of when they appeared in this laughable film? By the nineties, I had foolishly supposed a pop-culture evolution had banished the Rocky IV Reaganism of ten years previous. Silly me.AFO is two hours of the most right-wing, good ole boy garbage I've ever seen. As other posts have remarked, there is some amusement value in it, but you really have to be in a good mood.The story is obvious but, out of absolute courtesy **SPOILERS SPOILERS**; naughty terrorists led by someone called Ivan (Dear God..) take over the eponymous plane and demand Mother Russia is restored to former, erm, glory. Happily, football-loving, wife-and-daughter-worshipping, beer-and-pretzels Prez (called Jim, of course, a straight-down-the-middle, tell-it-like-it-is name) is on hand to slice their evil liberal commie terrorist feminist gay rights plans to ribbons with both brains AND brawn. You get value-for-money with these White House boys, although he's ably assisted by both a woman acting-president (Close) and a black woman whose communications nous helps him out of one of many tight spots. A feast of political correctness. And to think some people regard this as just another tub-thumping testosterone-fest.The body-count steadily increases on board as Jimbo creeps through the bowels of the plane, picking off evildoers whilst trying to save the innocent lives held hostage on board (including his family). There's one twist in the plot, but we're not talking 'Memento' here, and besides it's given away about five minutes into the film. Very clever.From time to time, attempts are made to even the balance by giving Oldman's character a chance to put his view ('free' Russia is now a gangster's paradise etc.) Alas his entire historical analysis is whipped out of sight by the President's daughter tearfully proclaiming 'My Daddy is a great man' or words to that effect. I'm surprised Ivan didn't join the Republican Party there and then, handed such a devastating critique of all he held dear.It's all utterly wretched. 'Classic' scenes include the Washington emergency planners coiled in tension, before whooping and high-fiving each other tearfully at the mere sound of the (presumed dead) President's voice over the intercom. And you're unlikely to have a full stomach after fantastically awful lines as 'NO-ONE does this to the USA!' and 'Get off my plane!', delivered at the end, as liberty is restored to the entire universe. God bless Jim and freedom-loving nations everywhere.Escapist nonsense is one of cinema's most enjoyable functions. But for crying out loud, it can be done without being offensively bad, can't it? Ford has done it himself countless times as Indy and Han. But films like this probably helped sell more Fidel Castro posters than anything else on Earth.  "},{"Title":"Gary Oldman  One redeeming quality","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie to see Gary Oldman's performance.  I received what I paid for.  As usual it was a brilliant.  Unfortunately this movie itself was terrible.  I kept asking myself, why Gary?  I suppose it would be fun for him to play a Russian terrorist though.  He's already mastered every other accent on the board, and I'm sure it was also quite enjoyable for him to show up the acting skills of Harrison Ford and Glenn Close in those movie. Anything Harrison Ford has done since the Indiana Jones movies has seemed way too half-hearted and Glenn Close was really staunch and scary in this role.  Anyway, it's okay as far as action movies go, and if you don't mind cheesy patriotism.  The only other reason you might see this movie is if you are a Gary Oldman fan.  Other than that..beware. "},{"Title":"Movie industry's lowest point","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the most incredibly idiotic piece of junk that has ever been filmed. It is impossible to ignore the obvious political message and focus on any other aspect, by saying it was fun ( which it wasn't ) or well made ( the special effects were below the 80's level, but I guess something had to give to make up for Ford's paycheck ).So you have a story where all Americans are pictured as heroes and righteous people while on the other side all foreigners are either lunatics, idiots, cheaters and generally untrustworthy. On top of it all stands the President, who apart from being a model statesman and family man, he also posseses the skills to singlehandedly dispose of a group of trained commandos, quite aside from such everyday skills as flying jets and speaking Russian ( and all this filmed in complete seriousness, without a trace of irony or parody to help redeem it ). It is unbelievable, a film like that would have been ridiculed even in Hitler's Germany or Stalin's Russia, to say nothing of the America of the 50's up to the 80's. But now we have people who actually come out of the movie theater saying that such a provocatively idiotic product was fun to watch, and Harrison Ford was really cool. A true shame. "},{"Title":"How not to make a movie","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Put together Executive Decision and Passenger 57, throw in some terrible acting by Glen close, and sprinkle in some over the top action sequences and what do you have?  Air Force one!!! I beg you not to watch this movie. Truly go see executive decision and passenger 57 instead!!  "}{"Title":"Laughable","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The actors that appeared in this movie should be ashamed to have their names associated with such a lame excuse of a movie.  I believe that the genres for this film should be updated to include comedy.  The only entertainment value I could find in this horrible piece of typical Hollywood schlock were the ridiculously laughable scenes of Harrison Ford twisting in the wind while supposedly hanging by a rope from an airplane. "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie, in plain and simple language, stinks.  While CON AIR could exciting if over the top, this was just plain stupid.  Harrison Ford is cast as the president. Early on the film establishes the fact that he does things that he thinks are right, even if they are politically damaging.  This raises the question of how the heck this guy got himself elected, let alone whether he would be able to take on a group of armed terrorists all by himself.  The special effects were rather unconvincing, and in a movie with a poor plot, that is going to be a big problem.  This is also one of those crisis management films where people in suits pace about while ranting on in an authoritative manner.  Nothing innovative about that.  Many non-Americans seem annoyed by this movie, but remember this It was directed by a GERMAN.  Go blame him.  Aviation note The film calls the Russian jets MIGs, but they look like Sukhois to me. "},{"Title":"Americans have gone too far on this one.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  That's it.  I've had enough.  What is the deal with the American, flag waving, president saving the world in one out of every ten movies?  I mean it makes the American public look like sheep.  I mean nothing personally against Harrison Ford, I am just sick of seeing the likes of Bill Pullman and Kevin Kline saving the America which supposedly means saving the world.The only reason I watched this movie all the way through is to watch in anticipation of the president being hit as we all know the president would never receive a bullet let alone die. I cannot say the movie was a complete flop purely for the reason of Gary Oldman serving out another superb performance.This is a movie purely for all the patriarchal members of USA who still are loyal to the ever shameful Bill Clinton and love to think of the president saving the world. "},{"Title":"Who likes this garbage?","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie got worse and worse as it dragged along!  It has the distinction of being one of the few movies I have had to walk out of (I am desperately cheap, and feel terrible if I pay 7 bucks and don't watch the whole thing.But this one was TOO PAINFUL to continue watching.Too bad.  I like Harrison Ford a lot. "},{"Title":"Mika's comments on Air Force One","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Begins with a nice, realistic atmosphere, Ford is a believable president etc, but then everything goes downhill, especially the bad special effects and unrealism ruin it for me for a few minutes, and when I start to recover, another stupid thing starts it all over again. Also very unrealistic actions in the rescue- and fighting scenes. If they had skipped the obligatory and blatant God Bless America (tm) scenes in the end, it might have gotten a 3 instead of a 2. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable!","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was quite probably the worst film I have ever seen in my life. The only reason I didn't walk out was because I wanted a lift home. Oh, so you want details? Trust me- no you don't.In Summary Worse than physical torture  "},{"Title":"dumb!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Warning spoilers.This is THE example of a bad hollywood movie. It is chauvinistic, arrogant, dumb, contains a cript that a 5 year old could write.... and a lot of special effects.This is the worst movie I have even seen and it should never have been exported. I wonder how people can call this entertainement, that's torture.0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"God Bless America !","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Is this movie supposed to be a comedy? I laughed all the way through. It is hilarious. The plot concerns a bunch of 2 dimensional euro-terrorists with the obligatory thick accents taking over Air Force One, and the glorious US military coming to the rescue, led by the President himself who just happens to be a war hero from Nam. Sure, it's a slick Hollywood actioner and I remain a fan of Harrison Ford but this film is sheer CRAP, and I don't care how much hate mail I get for saying so! I honestly believe that if Julius Caeser had access to modern technology 1,900 years ago he would have made a VERY similar movie. With hindsight, if only they'd smeared the terrorists with boot-polish and made them wear turbans. Even better! Now compare this film with your REAL President, a guy who can't even eat a pretzel without falling over. One of my favourite Americans is the great intellectual icon Gore Vidal, God knows how old but still with a mind as sharp as a razor. He recently said  We Americans are probably the only democratic nation in history that honestly believes its own propaganda, and that's kinda scary. Well said Mr Vidal. If ONLY Colin Powell had run for President this dreadful movie might, just might, seem slightly realistic, but you folks chose to elect and then re-elect Rain Man, so I hope you'll respect us Europeans having a jolly good laugh at it. I give it 3 out of 10 - and that's only because Harrison Ford was the star. "},{"Title":"Is the Cheese on Purpose?","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I use to think this movie was cool even though it was over-the-top. What happened in 5 years?  Did Jerry Goldsmith know that his music came across as cheesy as the film? This movie is kind of embarrassing to watch.  The camera work shows high production values and the sound is really neat but I think that adds to why it doesn't completely work.  Nothing worse then an expensive cheesy movie. Armageddon is the worst.  I can only enjoy it to make fun of it. It's a good movie to show off your system with but they got better movies on DVD for that now. Anyone want my DVD? Real cheap. There's an equally embarrassing commentary by Wolfgang that comes with it.  He sounds like he's trying to sell the movie to us again.  No shame. "},{"Title":"One more of those awful patriotic movies...","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The cast in this movie is good, Ford is good as always. But the plot is really bad, another one of those 'Go go great USA' movies, which I can't stand. "}{"Title":"A well crafted adventure.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one knockout action adventure film with winning performances from the entire cast! This is a great film, directed by award winning film-maker Wolfgang Petersen (Das Boot). Air Force One is Wolfgang Petersen's best work since In the Line of Fire (1993) with Clint Eastwood.Harrison Ford gives a tantalizing performance as the President of the United States James Marshall. He aboards Air Force One in order to return to his proud homeland in the United States of America from an important visit to Russia. However, the President has brought some uninvited guests...Rogue Russian terrorists lead by Ivan Korshunov (Gary Oldman, in his usual villainous role) have hijacked Air Force One after masquerading themselves as nondescript journalists. Tragically, they've killed several members of the President's staff and have taken many more hostage. Among the hostages are the President's wife, Grace Marshall (Wendy Crewson), and  his fiesty daughter, Alice (Liesel Matthews).  However, the terrorists have assumed the President has fled via escape pod, but they don't know the whole story...Meanwhile, at the White House, Madame Vice President, Kathryn Bennett (Glenn Close, in a strong performance) quarrels with the Defense Secretary, Walter Dean (Dean Stockwell). The entire staff at the White House must decide whether to negotiate with the psycho terrorists or use excessive force. As the stakes continue to escalate, several more hostages have been dispatched, but what can the White House Staff do next...Air Force One is one terrific action thriller. It boasts breathtaking visuals and special effects, and slam bang performances from Ford, Close, Oldman, and the rest of the cast. What makes Air Force One an even better film is the fact that the characters are believable. You can sympathzize with James Marshall's predicament, and Ford does an apex job tackling the role as the President. Ford portraits a realistic character in this film. For example, when a Russian terrorist hits Ford in the face, the audience themselves can vicariously feel the pain of the main character, the President.Yes, Air Force One is one awesome movie that every warm-blooded patriot in America will enjoy. It has furious action and fast paced energy to keep this film head above water, and the excellent performances also make this film a true winner all the way from the explosive beginning to the suspenseful and somewhat unexpected climax. Gary Oldman also deserves some acclaim for playing a creepy villain whom everyone can boo at.  As for Harrison Ford, you will cheer at his victories, and sadden at his tougher times. Air Force One is another hit that's not to be missed!RATING ***1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Idiotic","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Machine-gun battles at 30,000 ft. The wingtip of a 747 used as a hedge trimmer. The president of the US as an anatomically correct action figure.Big budget Hollywood productions don't get much stupider than this. Gotta love that tacky product placement for Bud, a bland movie, an even blander beer.If someone were to ask me which side I was rooting for, I'd have to take the Fifth.Socio-political note That peculiar US form of address, Mr. President, has always sounded completely ridiculous when a simple President would suffice. Here we're forced to hear Glenn Close called Madame Vice President over and over and over again. If ever a reason for not electing a woman were needed ...  "},{"Title":"Amusing But Silly","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's really amusing how Hollywood's infatuation with Bill Clinton has led them to make movie after movie depicting Clinton as they wish he was, rather than the disgraceful joke that he is.  Air Force One is no exception, as we have at the outset heroic Harrison Ford mouthing off his Clintonian platitudes about American foreign policy at the outset (it's really amusing how this idea of American intervention across the board is suddenly embraced now whereas during the Cold War against the real danger of communist expansionism, it was always derided by Hollywood as part of reckless warmongering American behavior!) then when Air Force One is hijacked by evil terrorists, Ford becomes the one man savior putting himself on the line to save the day just as Hollywood feels all Clintonian style Presidents must.   Along the way, we have to be served the gaping plot hole of how the terrorists get aboard in the first place and why the Secret Service Chief has been bought off etc. and then we're served up lots of very extraneous blood and violence (what is it about Hollywood today that makes them think that a simple PG is a kiss of death nowadays?) I have to admit that as an old fan of disaster movies of the 70s I can be amused by the style that calls to mind those old classics, but I'll still take one of the old films like Towering Inferno any day of the week. "}]