[{"Title":"A different perspective on the Civil Rights Movement","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I watched this documentary yesterday afternoon.  I remember learning about the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing (its importance in the Civil Rights Movement in the 1950s and 1960s) but I never saw how the effects on the people whose lives were permanently altered and not just from reaping the benefits like we do today.  This documentary opened showed this viewpoint.It brought tears to my eyes to listen and see the relatives of those four girls who were killed.  Unless you have a blind eye, a deaf ear, and a hard-a** heart, it is impossible to not be moved when you see these girls' sisters and mothers describe that Sunday morning when Addie, Denise, Maxine, and Carole were killed.  I could see the hurt in the mothers' eyes and hear pain in their voices when talking about their babies. I highly recommend watching this documentary.  Spike Lee did an outstanding job. "},{"Title":"Very moving","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  Lee's film does an excellent job of bringing the girls to life. It is very easy to lump the four girls together into one entity, as the Eyes on the Prize documentary did, but Spike Lee was able to set them apart as individuals and shows the grief felt by the friends and relatives to this day. However, the documentary seems to tell only about two-thirds of the story. Some of the nitty-gritty details about the bombing and the investigation are quickly summarized in order to bring the film to a quick conclusion. If I didn't know from other sources, I would not have known, for example, the nature of the bomb -- was it set by a timer? Thrown into the church? (I know from news accounts that it was the latter, but you would not have known if you were uninitiated and just learning through this documentary.) There are also questions that come to mind that Lee leaves unanswered What was the reaction of the white community in the area (I know, for example, that the bombing was certainly not unanimously cheered by the white south)? How was the bombing investigated? What eventually led the investigators to the guilty parties? The story of the 15 year search for the bomber and his accomplices (in fact, the search went on longer than that, even into the year 2001) is an important part of the story. A film as powerful as this should have taken the time to go into every nook and cranny of the story. Yes, it was excellent. Yes, it should have won the Documentary award for that year. Yes, it brought a tear to my eye. But there could have been so much more, and could have made the story that much more powerful. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Spike Lee did an excellent job with this documentary. I too, was extremely shocked that it did not win the Oscar the year it was nominated. One of the victims was my cousin, my fathers favorite niece at that. Growing up and learning about this tragedy first hand was very enlightening and yet tragic all at the same time. This film definitely captures the pain and suffering of my family and of the entire black community that lived through such racially biased times in Birmingham, Alabama. I think that this film should be seen by all, and not just during Black History month. In my opinion, there is no justification for the actions of those involved and it took some time and patience but they too had to pay for their crimes. "},{"Title":"Should have won Oscar that year...","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" ...Everytime you see the oscars, the movies about the holocaust win the awards. Spike's movie lost out to a holocaust documentary that year. And I finally saw it with my own eyes. Hollywood sucks. This movie should have won the oscar for best documentary that year. "},{"Title":"Solid Documentaryof a tragic event","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" This is a great documentary which speaks to the central battles of the civil rights movement and the still present racism in America. Wide range of interview subjects from family members, politicians and those who covered the story when it happened. Spike Lee's work elicits strong emotions at times but also leaves you to provide your own conclusions as well. Recommended along with dramatized movies such as Ghosts of Mississippi, Mississippi Burning and the little watched A Long Walk Home. Watch these to learn something of the darker side of American history and decide for yourself how far we have come in the last forty years. "},{"Title":"Solid documentary, but do we need Jesse Jackson?","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  To begin, I enjoyed 4 Little Girls. The events of September 15, 1963 should be remembered forever - the four girls are martyrs for the fight against racism. Spike Lee did an excellent job telling the story. The video and photographs of past and present Birmingham set a great scene for those not from Alabama. The Joan Baez song is heart-breaking to say the least. My only problem with the film, and for me it was a severe problem, was the inclusion of modern-day African-American activists in a lame attempt to connect with the modern day.Jesse Jackson was not needed. Reggie White was not needed. Speaking for myself only, but hoping I'm not in the minority, Jesse Jackson has no credibility. He's anywhere that has a TV camera. He's all about Jesse, positively, absolutely, and positively. I don't need The Reverend flapping his gums about the ramifications of the Birmingham bombing. I don't need an ex-football player telling me about the bombing either. They have nothing to do with the event, and really have no place in the film.Generally I'm not a big Spike fan, after all, I hate the Knicks. In all fairness though, the movie was excellent. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's best joint","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" 4 Little Girls is an excellent, touching documentary. Spike Lee, in his documentary debut, tells the story of one of the key events of the civil rights movement. The death of four young girls who are killed during their Sunday school class, by a bunch of racists, one Sunday morning in 1963.Lee tells his story in a simple, easy manner. He doesn't hammer us over the head with a message, he allows the story and the participants in the story. Lee trusts that his audience will form their own opinions, and discover the truth.It is wonderful to see that after thirty-five years, so many of the important witnesses to this story were still alive to give testimony to what had occurred. Whether it be the parents, friends or people who lived in the community, all of their stories were compelling needed to be heard.One of the most memorable scenes for me was the scene with former Governor of Alabama, George Wallace. I'm amazed that Lee was able to get him to make an appearance. Even after thirty-five years, the viewer can see that Wallace still didn't get it. In one scene he introduces an African-American friend of his, saying he doesn't go anywhere without him. When his friend comes on camera however, you can see that he is very uncomfortable about being seen with Wallace.At the end of the film there is a little discussion about the events being a part of God's plan. As the participants are deeply religious people they give their views, but no one is really sure. Yet one of the mother's goes on to say that she had to put all of the pain and sadness behind her. She was able to look back and say that although this horrible thing was a part of her life, she still had so many other blessings to be thankful for. It's wonderfully strong, positive people like this that are the true heroes. God bless them.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a great documentary","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  The bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in Birmingham in 1963 was sort of the 9/11 of its day. Its interesting this bombing was on September 15 only four days later. It was a crime that shook the nation and the world. Its still in the news! There was a man who only recently was convicted for his role in it. Spike Lee does an amazing job in bringing this tragedy back to us. In interviews with the families of these girls and various others. The one that got me is the one with George Wallace. I thought it was really pathetic the way he kept bringing his butler into the picture and saying that he had a black friend. If anyone symbolized the bigotry and violence in the South during this period, its Wallace and I think to show him in this was wrong. By the way, the song at the opening when they show these poor little girl's graves will haunt you for a long time. "},{"Title":"A thouroughly moving, tour de force and the best thing Spike Lee has done to date","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  This is an incredible documentary!  How it failed to win the Oscar puzzles me, although I must confess that I haven't seen the winner.  Be that as it may, Spike Lee put together a moving ad compelling tribute to four innocents.  The incident covered here, ironically, probably gave much needed impetus to the civil-rights movement, particularly with people in the North, a bittersweet point not lost on many of the interviewees.  See this documentary!  Most highly recommended! "},{"Title":"really really good","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I very much enjoyed Spike Lee's first foray into the documentary style. He did a great job of giving each of the participants the time to discuss the background of each of the subjects, of the politics of the time, and the overall state of affairs for everyone involved. I think his best work within this feature, aside from securing the trust of the kin of the 4 girls murdered, which is tough in itself, was the interview with George Wallace. It took me a second to believe that that was actually him, and that he agreed to the interview. The features on the disc I watched gave the full interview, and you realized that this man was near the end of his life and quite ill, and probably trying to save some face for his earlier actions. It was both tough and fascinating to watch the former governor make excuses for his earlier actions, and doing so by talking about what he did for black students while he was governor. He frequently called over his black friend to be in the camera shot with him. You find out later that the same man who has traveled all over the world with the governor is also working for him as his nurse. Plus, the same person gave no indication, spoken or unspoken, of his friendship with the governor. He simply looked nervous, not someone who looked in full support of the governor's friendship.I highly recommend this documentary (and accompanying making of). I look forward to your comments. "}{"Title":"A Spike Lee Joint","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" On September 15th, 1963 Robert Chambliss murdered four innocent children at the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama. The tragic event resulted in earth shaking ramifications witnessed throughout the country. Millions of people previously unaware of or indifferent to the racial crisis existing within the South were suddenly forced to take issue with a righteous cause that refused to vanish conveniently. The murderer commonly known as 'Dynamite Bob' had hoped to reinforce previously existing segregation laws by committing a desperate act of terrorism against a most sacred and beloved institution. Much to his surprise, these violent tendencies only strengthened the Birmingham community in their quest for equitable treatment for all Black citizens. However, it should not be forgotten that such a cowardly act caused indescribable grief and unbearable pain for the families of the victims. While the death of these four little girls was undoubtedly a crucial turning point in the civil rights movement, it was also a crushing blow dealt to four harmless, unsuspecting families. Spike Lee's debut documentary is a film that is engulfed with anger, pain, and disappointment. At the same time, however, it is a film that is presented as a message of hope. As Alpha Robertson passionately exclaims, 'God has a greater plan in mind, we all serve His purpose in some manner'. This quote is something that Lee presents as a rather speculative inquiry in his film. Was God acting within some enigmatic mode in an attempt to assist people in the realization of the need for equality and fairness in society? Could Queen Nunn's vision of the bloody Sixteenth Street Baptist Church have been a divine premonition? Lee leaves this possibility open to intense scrutiny and supposition. However, this approach raises another interesting question within the secular realm that relates to ideas on morality. Is the death of four innocent girls an acceptable loss if it means a greater purpose shall be served? To the family and friends of the victims, this is obviously not the case. However, to the greater public at large, does such a monstrous act become beneficial and perhaps even admissible? Not admissible in the sense of forgivable or understandable, but perhaps valuable or advantageous? Did Dr. King and other civil rights leaders exploit the deaths of the children for their own greater cause? These are all very difficult questions that Lee presents within his documentary. It is up to the viewer to come to his or her own distinct conclusion.4 Little Girls raises many interesting possibilities with regards to faith, destiny, and pre-determination. Could these four girls have been chosen by God to serve as martyrs for a righteous cause? Could God have been expressing his dissatisfaction or perhaps only attempting to expand the recognition of one of societies greatest ills? Or could this event have been entirely secular in nature, could the death of these four girls have been entirely coincidental and ultimately unnecessary? Was the increased awareness of discrimination a justifiable end to the horrific means? While the documentary does not dive into these serious inquiries very heavily, it does present them to the audience, whether consciously knowledgeable of it or not. As with all of Lee's films, Four Little Girls is encompassed by an atmosphere of uncertainty. While Lee never attempts to justify 'Dynamite Bob's' actions (and understandably so), he also doesn't attempt to explain why a man would commit such horrendous acts. This is not a fault of the film, rather it is indicative of the nature of Lee's films. There are some questions that cannot be easily answered as if one were merely responding to a true/false examination. However, it is these difficult questions that often spark the most intense and valuable discussions. Perhaps that is the true legacy of these four little girls. Perhaps their death, while tragic, ultimately saved many lives by bringing compassion and empathy to a society blinded by hatred. "},{"Title":"4 Little Girls (1997)","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Spike Lee's documentary about the horrible 1963 bombing of a Birmingham church that claimed the lives of four young girls. As a documentary, it achieves everything it should it informs us, it moves us, and it reminds us of the evil that we Americans have in our past, and still have today. Never forget, indeed. It goes without saying that this was an awful act of hatred and bigotry, its impact still sharply felt by friends and family of the victims. There is one amusing moment a clip of George Wallace, years after the fact, trotting out his black best friend for the world to see, and the man clearly has contempt for Wallace. Speaking of trotting out, however, I question the need for Bill Cosby to chime in, or Jesse Jackson for that matter. There are plenty of articulate and interesting interviewees already involved without pulling in a couple of celebrity pals. It pulled me out of the film for a moment. Other than that, however, a strong and memorable film. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" This should be mandatory viewing in all American schools. It is a very thorough and powerful documentary. It explains the background of Birmingham and how the civil rights struggle had existed there prior to the killing of these four innocent girls in 1963. One cannot help being touched by the interviews with the parents and siblings of these innocent girls.I often wonder why more people were not brought to justice for all the crimes of hate and injustice that were done during this period of American history. It is disgusting to see the look of arrogance of one of the perpetrators of this heinous crime when he is brought to justice in the mid-seventies. It was also interesting to see how George Wallace shape-shifted to maintain political power &#x96; there is apt parable in the documentary about fire and milk horses on this ability. In some ways George Wallace reminds me of how some of the Nazis after World War II never came to acknowledge their guilt and complicity. But then again as the good people in this film bravely point out &#x96; hate never accomplishes anything good.I was also happy that Taylor Branch was interviewed, as he wrote 3 monumental books on the civil rights movement. "},{"Title":"An Honest and Poignant Work","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I came across Spike Lee's arresting documentary 4 Little Girls early in the morning on cable without any intention of watching it. I had wanted to see it for a long time, because I am an admirer of Spike Lee's films, but I wasn't planning on watching it at that time, but I couldn't turn it off. This is a healthy testament to the film. It does not tell the tale of four innocent young victims of racism and guilt you into hailing it as great by the mere fact that it's fact. Lee is very natural and without airs in his command of the subject, which is four young girls who were victims of the 1963 16th Street Baptist Church bombing in Birmingham, Alabama by the Ku Klux Klan.Spike has always pursued the noble purpose of using his status as a name director to address issues in the black community, but sometimes despite his many great achievements he does not succeed without brandishing the racial chip on his shoulder. At times he can be a hypocrite and at times he indulges in the less favorable aspects of what is considered black culture in America. 4 Little Girls is an honest, balanced triumph in poignancy and subjectivity plays no part. "},{"Title":"moving, informative, and two stories interwoven exceedingly well","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Spike Lee's skills as a documentarian are astonishing considering his mixed efforts in dramatic features, which ranges from greatness to failures. With 4 Little Girls and especially When the Levees Broke, Lee takes focus of the subject matter, and expands upon the narrative to make the central story intertwined without losing anything close to worthwhile to know. It goes without saying it honors the memory of those four girls slain in the church in Birmingham, but it also honors the memory for the others who died and fought in the Civl Rights battle of the early 60s (it was a battle by way of perpetration by the likes of Bull O'Connell, and the rabid racists like the only man who was convicted in the late 70s of the church bombing). Lee starts off profiling the girls and their childhoods, their parents and childhood friends recounting their innocence, their energy, being simply kids growing up happy but in the midst of racism all around them. From there Lee branches off- using the white/colored segregation of something as minor as a water fountain, to branch off to Birmingham itself, its history, being the focal-point of much of the strife for black people in the south, Dr. King's eventual and crucial involvement, and the white racists. It's staggering information one learns, even if one already thinks they know all there is to know about the civil rights struggle. Just the information on Governor George Wallace (and, surprisingly, seeing Wallace interviewed with his near-gone voice and mind) is enough to raise repeated eyebrows in astonishment.And then Lee brings it back to the girls again, and that fateful, cursed day that one family member said she saw in a nightmare the night before. The interviews are presented with unabashed compassion for the family members, but not with misplaced sentimentality. The case itself, and how it becomes one of the pivotal pieces that, tragedy besides, leads the civil rights movement even further, has so much power that it's impossible to dramatize it. Lee simply uses music, photographs, and the faces of those who knew these girls, as well as public figures (i.e. Kronkite, Cosby, Jesse Jackson), to accentuate the material. It's skillful storytelling, and told with a story that needs to be told, and revealed to those who may forget the horrors of the American south merely forty-something years ago and more. Simply, one of the director's finest 'joints'. "},{"Title":"You must understand that a Bull Connor can not exist without the nods of the status quo people.","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" This Oscar-nominated documentary is one that will make you shudder to think that there are people in this country with so much hate that they could do this heinous act.In a sense, the murder of these girls was a blessing as it awoke the American people to the fact that such people existed. America saw the burned and battered bodies of four girls, not yet teens, and realized that action had to be taken to remove the stain of segregation.Spike Lee did a terrific job of showing the attitude and actions of the hate-mongers in the South in the late 50s and early 60s; and also showed the impact these crimes had on the people who lived in Birmingham, Alabama.A magnificent film. "},{"Title":"Sometimes This Is the Only Way!!!!","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I vividly remember reading about this as a youngster of 11 in Jet which, strangely enough, was the only magazine I read from back to front. I also remember the dread sometimes of reading Jet Magazine for you could count on pictures of dead African-Americans who were victims of racism. But this was the way of the world then. I am a grown man and I rarely cry at movies but it is quite impossible to hold back the tears looking at this. It is just as vivid to the parents, relatives, and friends of the four little girls involved in this horrific crime today as if it happened yesterday. Say what you will about Spike...HE WILL MAKE YOU CONFRONT IT WHETHER YOU LIKE IT OR NOT! Sometimes this is the only way to get the point across that we have simply got to do better. The movie is quite intense because the memories of the people most intimately involved have not faded in 38 years. One mother even admitted that she doesn't even harbor any hate anymore and has resigned herself to the fact that that would simply not do any good at this point; at the same time this is something that she STILL has to work on daily through the grace of her religious convictions. A particularly uncomfortable scene featured George Wallace, (yeah, THAT one), racist extraordinaire, who in his later years claimed to have modified his racial views. His speech, slurred and barely understandable, Mr. Wallace was insisting that during the whole time he rallied against ANYTHING black, he and this black man who was standing behind him during this, were, in fact, the best of friends and HAD been all along!!! It is also patently obvious that for the black man in question, this was NOT the case....in the LEAST!. Please forgive my lack of objectivity here, but this scene really, really got on my nervesA beautiful documentary and a must see but be prepared to at least have to take a breather because it is intense but WELL worth the discomfort. Hats off, Spike! You've done it again!!!!! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  Wow Spike Lee at his best!!! Picked this movie up at the library and it has amazing impact on the viewer.  Being a mom and having children mixed Black and White in the year 2003 I can still feel racial tension when in certain places. This movie needs to be viewed and remembered as American History. Thank you Spike Lee!!!! "},{"Title":"An incredible film about an incredible tragedy","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  4 Little Girls broke my heart, completely.  I'm ashamed to say that I didn't have a clue about this incident in history until I sat down and watched Spike Lee's film on it and to say I was horrified would be an understatement.  It is both appalling and amazing to me that only 30 some odd years ago, a racial battle full of ignorance, pure meanness and death was playing itself out through many parts of the United States.Spike Lee is at his best here.  Never does he make the fatal mistake of showing any bias.  Instead, he is factual, passionately involved and sincere in his undertaking and personalizes the town, the people, the victims, the feel of the time so well that one cannot walk away unchanged from this viewing experience.  He let's the story gnaw away at your heart and your conscience and your sense of humanity and he does so flawlessly.An incredible film - how incredibly sad that it is so because of such a tragedy. "},{"Title":"Deeply moving documentary","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  Thanks to Spike Lee for telling this story in such a compelling manner. However, the use of the autopsy photos was so unnecessary. The horror of the event is evoked clearly by the lines on the faces of the survivors, and in their voices. I know the intent was to nail the point home, but for me, as a parent, seeing and hearing the story told by the family was almost too much to take in all at once.  "}{"Title":"Powerful documentary","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I was not born when the Birmingham church bombing occurred.  I first read about it when I was 10 or 11 in a Reader's Digest story and for some reason the names of the girls stuck in my mind all these years.  I saw this on HBO and it is one of the only films that continued to leave an emotional impression on me long after it was over.  Especially the haunting last image of Denise McNair happily holding her beloved (white) doll, and the overwhelming sense that someone who should be in the world today, is not with us.  The interviews with family and friends of the girls are what makes this documentary special.  Also it does a great job of educating people about Birmingham's civil rights history up to the bombing and just how it took an appalling act of violence to wake up white America.  Let's hope it never takes this sort of crime again to make us wake up to other simmering injustices. "},{"Title":"What Spike Does Best","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Four Little Girls is representative of what Spike Lee does best, namely raise the level of consciousness of movie-going audiences who are constantly fed fake mind-numbing violence. The violence that snuffed the lives of four young black girls in Sunday school was, however, all too real. Using the testimony and commentary of family members, friends, and other individuals who remember this incident, Lee manages to take us back to that awful day when American racism and hatred revealed itself in all of its unbridled virulence. Four Little Girls is a masterpiece not simply because of its subject, but because of Lee's brilliant use of oral history--proving again that real life is stranger and often more brutal and ugly than fiction. "},{"Title":"All we did was awaken Esther Starkweather and filled her heart with a terrible resolve!","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I was 8 years old when it happened & I was 5 days away from a tonsils operation. The song, Sally go Around The Roses playing on the radio & then it was interrupted the news about a church bombing in Birmingham and killed 4 school girls. And it was for real & to me personally it meant that I was next to go and might die because of my operation. And had dreams of black militants and flying monkeys from The Wizard of Oz coming for me & die in a car crash burning up inside the car. On that day, America lost it credibility and various people in charge found themselves looking in the mirror and see a blank face looking at them. However it reminded me of Pearl Harbor because that went down on a Sunday and wondered how the guys who did it aka The Droogies thought about what they did. Yamamoto gave them a statement. All they did was awaken a sleeping giant and filled him with a terrible resolve. And comic book horror writers had some good material to use for The September 15th Incident like Esther Starkweather a small black girl who terrorized white racists in their dreams and take them out & predates The Elm Street Movie series. Spike Lee deserved his Oscar & I have the copy in my place & the school girls earned their posthumous medal of honor from President Obama. "},{"Title":"never forget","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The recent shooting - we might call it a terrorist attack - in the church in Charleston, South Carolina, calls to mind the Ku Klux Klan's bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church in 1963 that killed four African-American girls. Spike Lee's documentary 4 Little Girls looks at that heartless act and the events surrounding it. One of the most eye-opening scenes is the interview with George Wallace, who was Alabama's white supremacist governor at the time of the bombing (he later changed his views). It was from the documentary that I learned about Bull Connor, one of the most vile segregationists of all (a character in the Coen Brothers' remake of The Ladykillers referenced him).It's important to remember that this brutal deed - another that we might call an act of domestic terrorism - is one of the most important events in our country's history. Racism persists even today. Indeed, Dylann Roof and people like him think that Barack Obama's presidency means that those other people are taking over our country.All in all, it's a heartbreaking story. 4 Little Girls and When the Levees Broke (about Hurricane Katrina) are probably the Spike Lee works that are most important to see. We must never forget what happened. "},{"Title":"Time and space","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" There are two things that I love about discovering a special film I love to get more for my money (i.e. see what I paid for and something I didn't expect) and I love learning something new. Documentaries give the latter but '4 Little Girls' managed to give me both.I knew this was the story of the bombing of the 16th Street Church in 1964 the killed four little black girls and turned the country on the problem of racial segregation. What I also got from the film was a very vivid portrait of Birmingham, Alabama during the time of so much civil unrest.The documentary is directed by Spike Lee, but he stays invisible and allows the people who made up the community at the time to tell the story. We hear in over three dozen interviews from family and friends of the victims, local politicians, celebrities and leaders and followers of Martin Luther King. But most peculiar is former Governor George C. Wallace (not long before his death) as an old man at the end of his life who represents all old politicians who once boldly stood for segregation (mostly out of expediency) and now seek redemption.What I learned most from this film is who these girls were and what they left behind. The interviews with family and friends talk about the good times and the bad. The movie never treats these four young girls as tokens in a news story. There is a reality here both sad, tragic, heartbreaking but also a nice life-goes-on aspect that I found refreshing.I live in Birmingham. You don't hear many people talk about the bombing (except occasionally in the media) and that is essentially the note that the movie leaves us with. The event was a tragedy, it left wounds in the lives of the survivors that will never completely heal. But as the mother of one of the girls says 'So many things have happened since and I just go on and live'. "},{"Title":"Sucking on a Spike Lee joint","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I guess that was the night I made up my mind to tell her that she couldn't have that sandwich because she was black. - Mr. McNair Spike Lee's Four Little Girls uses the deaths of four Sunday school students (Carol McNair, Addie Mae Collins, Cynthia Wesley, Carole Robertson) during the 1963 bombings of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama, as a means of delving into the history of the United States' civil rights movement.Though conventional, and though its first and final acts too heavily sentimentalise the dead girls, Spike shamelessly milking memories of their beauty, grace and general loveliness, the film's middle section nevertheless touches upon interesting material. Here, Lee serves up a superior version of her earlier film, Malcom X, and paints the death's of the girls as a watershed moment in which white America awoke to the needs and grievances of African Americans. From here, Lee says, the walls of segregation would be torn down, and some forms of previously deep rooted, institutionalised racism would begin to crumble.Late in the film, Robert Dynamite Bob Chambliss is shown to be the man behind the Birmingham bombing, a man who, like Anders Breivik, the recently convicted 32 year old Norwegian extremist responsible for the 2011 Norway murders, simply became a manifestation of a certain branch of right-wing psychosis. For Breivik, the muslim other needed to be contained, to be restored to its rightful place. For Chambliss, blacks needed to learn to resubmit. In both cases, it is those in office fanning the flames of hatred, either directly (They took 'yer jerbs! Go get 'em!) or via the bolstering of systems that are inherently racist. In Breivik's case, economic liberalism generated great tides of global migration, which in turn gave birth to so-called multiculturalism. In Chambliss' case, of course, the influx of blacks is down to centuries of slavery, followed by the new-serfdom of capitalism. But even this old-style slavery is still a large problem. According to research (the ILO and AAS group), it is this moment in history where the greatest numbers of slave workers work. Today, slavery is at its highest point, and 35 billion dollars are generated globally from the over twenty seven million slaves toiling on the planet. These figures don't include paid, Third World workers, who are themselves cheaper to pay - and are thus more economically logical - than a slave was in the 1800s.Four Little Girls works best when it's touching upon the role Rev Dr Martin Luther King Jr and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference played in making Birmingham so central to the civil rights movement. Lee also does well in linking Birmingham's historical past, present and future. Its monstrous racist history (and future) is perhaps best encapsulated by a series of scenes in which a former Governor George Wallace, now frail and on the verge of death, brushes aside his past pro-segregation transgressions. He's always loved African Americans, he says, and offers as proof his dutiful black aide. Couldn't live without him, he says without irony.8/10 - Solid, but fails to push far enough. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"One tight piece of work","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Spike Lee has done us all a favor in the production of his documentary 4 LITTLE GIRLS, which chronicles the events around the bombing of 16th Avenue Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama, on September the 15th, 1963. The families of three of the victims Denise Mcnair, Cynthia Wesley and Carole Robertson are interviewed for this film. Some information is offered up on the fourth victim, Addie Mae Collins. The history is also presented in the context of the Civil Rights movement, and several witnesses of the period- Fred Shuttlesworth, James Bevel, and Wyatt Tee Walker among others appear here. The film also offers some coverage of the trial of Robert Chambliss as ringleader/lead conspirator in the case, which took place fourteen years later. Apparently Chambliss had a long history in the series of bombings which took place in Birmingham between 1949 and the 16th Street Bombing, which itself galvanized sections of the country in the struggle for civil rights as few events ever would. Typical of Spike Lee, some small focus is lent to the fact that violent harassment of the black church continues in this country to this day. In summation, 4 LITTLE GIRLS offers a tight glimpse at a chapter of history whose impact is (amazingly enough) largely forgotten by all too many of our fellow citizens. And Spike Lee, in his completion of this ambitious project, has finally demonstrated the depth of his commitment to a richer representation of African American political and cultural struggle. "},{"Title":"Lee's finest hour","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" It has been well documented by a select few directors that reality is infinitely more compelling than fiction. Not to say that there's anything wrong with fiction, but knowing that the story that is about to be told is indeed fact almost unanimously eliminates the problem of getting into the movie because the viewer can already relate to it on a human level. Spike Lee is a bloody genius both in telling a story and telling it in such a way as to be provocative without being pretentious. 4 Little Girls cuts through all the sugar coated drivel and stilted piano music commonly associated with remembering those who have perished needlessly and gets to the heart of the matter they perished needlessly. The style of this documentary is very intimate, using extreme close-ups at all times with those being interviewed whereas to magnify their emotions. I found this style engrossing because you can see the gears turn in these people's heads as they try to remember these girls fondly and also the tragic events that took their lives. Some of the more sympathetic (read racist) southern lawmen try ever so subtly to paint the results of the church bombing as mere collateral damage, but a point was being made and the people who made it didn't care who suffered as a result. It is a great to see that the families of these four little girls are still strong and undeterred by the tragedy though to some the deaths are still like an open wound. Spike Lee makes the considerably wise decision of first introducing us to the girls from the recollections of their parents and loved ones and making them human first, victims later. He also lets George Wallace make an invalid-ish idiot of himself simply by letting him speak without any directorial intervention. The intimate, personal nature of this film is what makes it work on every level. Spike Lee obviously has a passion for telling stories that perhaps would have been shoved into obscurity had he not the courage to fearlessly tackle them with such passion and intensity. "},{"Title":"Because they should never be forgotten...","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  Whenever I happen to be in a group of people engaged in a discussion on race, whether it has been inspired by something currently in the news, or by an article or even a popular show on TV or a movie, there's always at least one person who asks, With all the progress that's been made, why do black and Jewish people still put so much emphasis on race and prejudice?To answer that question for those people, no matter how well-intentioned they are in their ignorance, Spike Lee has made this film. You cannot be human and not be moved by the terrible story of the sacrifice that these little girls made, nor the lasting effect it had on everyone concerned. In its own way, this story is every bit as important as SCHINDLER'S LIST, and in the wake of recent events--church bombings, racial profiling by the police, the dubious success rate of our penal system turning young black men into hardened thugs into corpses--it is more important now than ever before that stories like these are told, to help us understand why we can only change the direction our generation seems to be headed in, by looking back at where we've been and what it cost us to get to where we are now. "},{"Title":"Very Powerful documentary","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I had the opportunity to watch 4 Little Girls last night on HBO, and it blew me away (no pun intended).  Spike did an excellent job of interviewing the people involved in this tragedy.  He should have won an Oscar for Best Documentary on this one.  I've never seen a better documentary.  Everybody should see it. "}{"Title":"An extremely powerful story told without flash.","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  This is a stirring documentary that reflects back on the afternoon of September 15, 1963 when four young black girls were killed in the terrorist bombing of a church in Birmingham, Alabama.  With Spike Lee behind the camera and conducting the interviews, one might expect a lot of flash and experimentation in the documentary form, but Spike has decided to stay true to conventional non-fiction storytelling techniques, letting the emotional power of the incident itself stand on its own.  This is a wise choice, as the testimonies of parents, siblings, friends, community leaders, and civil rights activists of all stripes are extremely moving as well as clarifying. Lee's most impressive feat is his ability to evoke the responses he gets from these interviewees.  That and his decision to film this story in the first place- this is a story that needs telling.  Lee has in the past emphasized style with varying degrees of success.  In this film, he emphasizes the substance, and it pays off. "},{"Title":"Top-notch","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I wasn't born yet when the events occurred, but seeing this film had almost the same impact. It just amazes me that people would be racist enough to kill innocent children - children who never really had a chance to live. Those who were alive and remember the events of that day will certainly feel the outrage anew, especially when the parents and relatives of the children who died speak of that day.PLEASE NOTE This film contains footage of the bombing site, newsreels of the marches on Birmingham, and autopsy photos. Many of these images are very disturbing. Those who are bothered by such images should not view this film.  "},{"Title":"Another great film about the Civil Rights movement","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I watched this film twice, and was in tears the whole way through both times. It was followed today by Boycott, another great film. I was struck by the fact that the terroristic act that changed the way America looked at the Civil Rights movement was against a Christian Church (16th Street Baptist), and the movement that then followed was birthed mostly in the Christian Church (the Southern Christian Leadership Conference). I know that there are those who do not believe in Jesus Christ, and I believe they are entitled to their opinion. I wonder what would have happened if Martin Luther King Jr. had not come along. Would we have had a bloody civil rights riot nationwide? (notwithstanding the riots that followed King's assasination) I for one do not fail to see God's providence over a horrible situation. Why can't we learn any lessons from the past? (my $0.02) "},{"Title":"An exploration of the institutions the film serves.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  If everyone has a story, then the one about the four little girls who were killed during a Sunday bombing in Birmingham must be an important one. Spike Lee realized the fact that the death of these four girls was a pivotal moment in the civil rights movement, and uses it to catapult his own political views into a historical message.  This film takes four nondescript children and glorifies their lives because of the manner of their death. This lauding is certainly deserved and appropriate, but it is important to remember that who the girls were individually is inconsequential to the power of their deaths.  If the four victims had been entirely different people, say classmates in the next room, this movie would still be the same. It is the ultimate example of `exaltation of the ordinary', a truth of documentary film, according to Dean Duncan.  The story is not pretty, the autopsy pictures are grisly, and the influence of hatred in the events that transpire is disturbing. Through their deaths, the girls gave voice to millions of African-Americans, but in doing so their own voices were sacrificed.  This film attempts to reconcile that loss with interviews from family, friends, and associates of the girls.  Instead of giving us a eulogy, Lee paints a vivid portrait of girls who were no different then any other girls at the time.  Their glory came not in their lives, but in how their loves were lost. The death of the four little girls in Birmingham is historically valuable because it was a catalyst for the shifting of the civil rights movement to the next level.  From tragedy positive things frequently emerge.  Lee saw the glory in the sacrifice of life these girls made, and choose to tell that story in a powerful, intimate manner.  The close shots during the interviews were not meant to make the viewer uncomfortable, but alluded to the action of leaning in when interested in the speaker.  This was a true documentary, and although painted with the hand of Spike Lee, the film serves a higher institution, that of history and remembrance.  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" 4 Little Girls (1997) **** (out of 4) Powerful, brilliantly told but emotionally draining documentary from Spike Lee about the 1963 church bombings in Birmingham, AL that killed four girl (ages betwee 11 and 14). I learned about these events in school but it was nice seeing a document of what actually happened even though I had a few problems with the film, which I'll get to later. This is an incredibly important little film because it's always nice, as a historical document, to have those surrounding the event be on hand to tell their stories. I was rather shocked that the young girl's family memebers, including parents, were here for interviews and it just became more and more heartbreaking as the film went on. I'm not sure if depressing is the right word or not but the events in this film really can't be looked at in any other way. In the film we're told this event changed how white America looked at racism and I wish Lee would have gotten some of those racist in Birmingham to tell what they thought at the time and their feelings after they learned who was killed in the attacks. We do get George wallace making a fool out of himself but I somewhat had a problem with this. It's a joke seeing him try to say he was a friend to black people and he comes off looking very stupid, which I guess he should but the man seemed near death and I'm not really sure putting him on camera was the right thing to do. This is the only part where I think Lee went overboards in the story. The story was strong enough that we didn't need that little break, with slow motion and sound effects, to show what type of person Wallace was. The other thing I have to question is the fact that Lee showed the mutilated and burned bodies of the four children. I think knowing that they died is bad enough but seeing their bodies is something that certainly won't leave my mind. Either way, Lee has created a remarkable little film. "}]