[{"Title":"Why did I wait so long?","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not sure why I waited to so long to see this film as I've known about it for quite some time now, but it was purely delightful.  I spent the weekend catching up on my Christopher Guest films, and watched `A Mighty Wind' then `Best in Show' and saved Guffman for last.  While I still thought `A Mighty Wind' was better, (in the same way that Sprite is better than 7-Up&#133; there's really no difference, just maybe an iota of something indescribable that is better) `Waiting for Guffman' is still huddled in there with `Best in Show' as a fantastic film.One thing that I noticed about `Guffman' over the others is that while all of his films have a little heart to them, this film had just a little bit more.  I can also see that Guest, while having more of an acting role in this film, went on to lessen his roles substantially, but he really is a good actor.  All of the actors show immense versatility, (especially Catherine O'Hara, whose hair in this film made me laugh constantly) but Guest actually surprised me.  The fact that the films are primarily ad-libbed is most impressive in `Guffman' in my opinion, and the direction, while very subtle in all of the films, does not rely on editing to lead (or sometimes, create) a gag as much as his later films do. All of Guest's films are fairly short (clocking in at 90 minutes or less) so I would suggest that if you haven't seen any or all of his mockumentaries, to just schedule a film festival with some friends and watch them in order.  It's fun to compare them, and to watch the same actors take on different personas, and `Waiting for Guffman' is a strong and hilarious piece of work.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"But You Don't Have To Wait For The Laughs","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  	Civic pride and the desire to perform bring an eclectic group of people together in the mock documentary, or `mockumentary,' `Waiting for Guffman,' directed by Christopher Guest.  As he did with his more recent outing, `Best In Show,' Guest uses his satirical format to tell the story of the good people of Blaine, Mo., who are planning a celebration to commemorate the sesquicentennial of their fair town, the highlight of which will be a play depicting the history of Blaine.  And how fortunate they are, as the celebrated director Corky St. Clair (Guest), who has had some close encounters with Broadway, has recently settled down in Blaine and has agreed to undertake the monumental task of directing the play, which he decides to present as a musical.  He has the High School band/music teacher, Lloyd Miller (Bob Balaban) to provide the music; now all he has to do is assemble his cast.  So he posts an announcement for auditions, and with that, the action begins.	St. Clair has a grand vision of what his musical will be, and once rehearsals begin and he realizes just how good it is, he contacts some people he knows from his brush with the Great White Way, who agree to send a representative, Guffman, to see the show.  St. Clair, of course, is walking on air, as he sees this as a chance at the big time; he's convinced they're going all the way to Broadway with this one.  And on the night of the show, anticipation runs high as St. Clair and the members of the cast wait for Guffman to arrive.  They've even reserved a folding chair in the front row for him, and as the curtain goes up, they hold their breath awaiting the first glimpse of The Man himself.	Guest takes you through the whole process, from the auditions to the final show, and through interviews you get to know the townsfolk and their feelings about living in Blaine and their thoughts on the sesquicentennial and St. Clair's elaborate musical.  And as you meet these people, I guarantee you're going to run into more than a few from your own experience; and anyone who's ever had anything to do with community theater on any level, is definitely going to be able to identify with the characters and situations presented here.  Written by Guest and Eugene Levy, the screenplay is rife with insight into human nature on a level with anything ever written by Thackeray or Twain.  The humor is dry and subtle; never forced, it evolves totally from the characters and the situations Guest and Levy have created.  And, as David Byrne did with `True Stories,' they play up the humor of every day life in a small town without ever making fun or maligning it in any way; there are no `cheap shots' employed just for the sake of a laugh.  It's all delivered good-naturedly and with taste.  If they seem to be laughing at anyone, rest assured, it's themselves above all.	Among those involved in bringing this piece of Americana to life are Fred Willard as Ron Albertson, and Catherine O'Hara as his wife, Sheila, who together run a local travel agency, but are entertainers at heart and jump at the chance to perform in St. Clair's musical; Parker Posey as Libby Mae Brown, who hopes to leave her job at the Dairy Queen behind when the show moves to Broadway; Eugene Levy as Dr. Allan Pearl, a dentist with a latent desire to perform who finally gets his chance with St. Clair; and Matt Keeslar as Johnny Savage, the mechanic who never realized where he real talents lay until St. Clair came along, and winds up on the stage, much to the chagrin of his dubious father, Red, played by Brian Doyle-Murray.  The performances by one and all are first rate, and it gives that necessary sense of realism to the film that really makes it work; these are not actors you're watching, but real people in a very real town.	The supporting cast includes Don Lake (Blaine Historian Phil Burgess), Paul Dooley (UFO Abductee), Linda Kash (Mrs. Pearl), Miriam Flynn (Costume Dresser), Jill Parker-Jones (Stage Manager), Larry Miller (Glen Welsch, Mayor), Deborah Theaker (Gwen Fabin-Blunt, Councilwoman), Michael Hitchcock (Steve Stark, Councilman) and Scott Williamson (Tucker Livingston, Councilman).  Alfred Hitchcock may be the Master of Suspense, but with `Waiting for Guffman,' Christopher Guest proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that he is the Master of the `Mockumentary.'  He has an eye for detail and an innate sense of what makes people tick, and he fills his film with all the nuance and quirks of life that can be found every day in any small town or metropolis across the country.  With this film he holds up the mirror and says, `Go ahead, take a look,' and it gives you a chance to let your hair down and perhaps realize that everything isn't quite as serious as it seems sometimes; a chance to laugh at yourself and the guy next to you, with nothing but the best intentions, while affording you the opportunity of just having some good, old fashioned fun.  And that's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.   	 "},{"Title":"Good spoof documentary from Guest","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes dry, sometimes bubbling satire of middle America chronicles Corky Corkoran's (Guest) efforts to put on a spectacle commemorating the town of Blaine's 150th anniversary.  Told in mockumentary style like most of Guest's films.  Corky drafts an odd assortment of local talent to bring his historical revue to life, including the local dentist (Levy) and travel agent couple (O'Hara and Willard).  Like Spinal Tap, this film mercilessly spoofs the artistic pretentions of Corky and his cast, but the audience ends up feeling genuine affection for the characters, the provincial backwater of Blaine, and even Corky's awful show with laughable music and acting.  Guest's performance, as well as several of the others, is very funny and memorable.  A likeable comedy that some audiences may find too slow... much funnier than his later (and more popular) Best of Show. "},{"Title":"A great little film that points out a quality in all of us","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some people might say this film's improvisational nature is dull and slow, it's the complete opposite. Just imagine a movie completely improvised? Not only does it take talent, it takes guts and charisma to stay with something so bold. While the ending was a little abrupt, this film was still one to enjoy. Christopher Guest seems to have playing a homosexual down to a hilt. If it wasn't for his role in Best in Show, I thought he would forever be typecast as an eccentric gay character. A fun film to watch if you're into alternate types of comedy.But this film also says a little something about the human condition. We aren't all people who wait for each other to speak and are perfectly capable of leading a group of people. This is Guest's gift he can accentuate the insecurities we have within ourselves and portray it perfectly on celluloid. "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's amazing that Christopher Guest (and the great Eugene Levy) aren't more known.  If I had my way, they'd be household names. With so many less talented actors making more money and films than these guys, it's proves it's an unfair world and an unfair biz.Waiting for Guffman is a hilarious film. A great cast and a funny concept make this a classic.  These are really talented people in this film, especially when you realize a lot of it was adlibbed. Only two people can do it all Barbara Striesand and Corky...I hate you and I hate your ass face.I still laugh every time I see it.  Eugene Levy (my favorite SCTV cast member) is so funny in this movie, I really wish he did more stuff. The man's a genius.  When you see these all time great comedy lists, ignore them. They were picked by 80 year old men who still think Buster Keaton is the funniest human to ever live. You'll never find movies like this on those lists. But this movie deserves to be. It's up there with The Odd Couple and Airplane. Definitely check it out. "},{"Title":"Definitely not to everyone's taste, but a lovely film nonetheless","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the first of several films that Christopher Guest and his friends have made using a very unusual style. Instead of a clearly defined script, some very talented actors (such as Eugene Levy, Catherine O'Hara, Fred Willard and others) took a script idea and improvised throughout. The film was then created using the best bits and I can honestly say that there is nothing like this film. While some of the jokes are very, very dry and occasionally fall flat, there is a subtle charm and wit to the film as you follow a group of 3rd rate local actors who have insane visions of Broadway.The film is ostensibly about a very local stage production about the founding of some small town. While these sort of pageants have been ubiquitous in small town America, this one is unique because supposedly a guy by the name of Guffman is coming to town and plans two see it. Guffman, it seems, is from Broadway and the cast has the temerity to believe that maybe they'll impress him so much that they'll become major stars. Considering the quality of the acting is well below that of an average high school production, this is very absurd. Yet, although ridiculous, there is a certain something in many of these people that is very likable so there is some depth to the film--you aren't just laughing at yokels who have ridiculous aspirations.I thoroughly enjoyed the film and think that people who like their humor subtle and perhaps a bit painful will enjoy this film. People who prefer broad comedy probably won't enjoy this very much. "},{"Title":"Funny and deceptively authentic","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The current climate of cinematic comedy is comparable, to an extent, to the trend in horror everything is geared toward pull-out-all-stops excess that is more disgusting than entertaining. We should thank our lucky stars for Christopher Guest, a consistently surprising filmmaker (he directed Best in Show and wrote This is Spinal Tap) who makes 'mockumentaries' that play like actual documentaries. Waiting for Guffman follows Corky St. Clair (Guest), a flamboyant stage director who gathers a group of 'eclectic' locals (a cross-eyed dentist; a husband-and-wife travel agent team; a Dairy Queen employee) for a production about the sleepy town in which they live (its claim to fame being home of the footstool). There is a hilarious authenticity to the behind-the-scenes footage, but the film never laughs at its subjects--as viewers, we share Corky's (admittedly delusional) passion with bittersweet good humor. The supporting cast--consisting of Guest regulars Eugene Levy, Catherine O'Hara, Parker Posey, Fred Willard, Bob Balaban, and Larry Miller--is in top form here. Waiting for Guffman is a quiet comedy gem about a dull, quiet town. And it's also ridiculously rated R for two quick instances of F-word usage (way to call it, MPAA!). "},{"Title":"Even funnier with repeated viewing","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Without exaggeration, I can tell you that I've seen this movie at least 30 times.  And I always find something new about it.  For instance, in Ron & Sheila's audition with their treatment of Midnight At The Oasis, it took me about 10 viewings til I noticed that Sheila is mouthing the words to Ron because of his problems remembering his lines.I really don't know where to begin listing my favorite things about this movie - Ron's medical reason for his sole trip outside of Blaine, Dr. Pearl's Carson impressions, Sheila's less-is-more acting approach, Corky's tantrums (I hate you, and I hate your ass face!), Libba Mae's description of her job at Dairy Queen, councilman Steve Stark admiration for Corky (GOD, I wish I was in the show), there is not a wasted moment in this film.  It's stupid of me to try to list them here.The extras on the DVD feature a ton of scenes that weren't in the movie. There's some additional Corky items in his memorabilia collection, including towels from Hamlet On Ice, alternate epilogues for both Ron & Sheila and also Dr. Pearl, a scene of Corky driving around town telling people they made the cast, a nutty scene of Ron's whiffle-ball reenactment of Bill Mazeroski's famous home-run, dinner at Johnny Savage's house, and extra stuff from the musical - Nothing Ever Happens In Blaine, This Bulging River and also a whacked-out White House scene.  But the piece de resistance of the deleted scenes is Libby Mae's other audition piece which is so subtly twisted that you just need to see it yourself.It's debatable whether this movie is outright cruel in making fun of small townsfolk & community theater types.  But the more I watch it and get into it, I think that everybody in the movie has a strong amount of affection for their characters.  I don't know; you watch it 30 times and tell me what you think. "},{"Title":"Broadway bound","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Christopher Guest has the knack for creating films where genuine laughter never stops. We saw this film when it was originally released, but caught it recently in the retrospect of Mr. Guest's films shown recently here.Waiting for Guffman is, to this humble viewer, probably his best creation to date. Not only is this a funny movie, it shows the genius of Mr. Guest at his best.Corky St. Clair, the director from the New York stage seems completely out of place in Blaine, Mo. He is too witty for that small little town, where he is clearly adored, not only by the local thespians, but by the whole municipal council. Some of the lines one hears coming from Corky's mouth are so amazing that one wonders if the citizens of Blaine fully realize they have a gem living in town.The players auditioning for Corky's new production about Blaine's beginnings, live in a world of themselves. Ron and Sheila Albertson, are the star of other productions, so they return again for the new show. Libby Mae Brown works in the Dairy Queen, but her ambition is to be a star. Even the local dentist, Dr. Allan Pearl, is attracted to become a performer.There are two other underlying plots going on in the film. There is the history part, or how Blaine came to be, and the other notorious incident of the flying saucer that came into town and took several of the citizens for a tour of the space craft and we are being told about it by the people that experienced that adventure.Christopher Guest makes a wonderful Corky St. Clair. Mr. Guest knows what makes Corky great. Corky, no doubt, is a composite of people Mr. Guest must have known at one time or another. Corky is an enormous achievement for Mr. Guest as a writer and as a performer.Fred Willard and Catherine O'Hara are incredible in their take of the Albertsons, the travel agents without a clue of what's going on outside Blaine. Ron's delicate operation is explained in some detail to the horrified Mrs. Pearl. Eugene Levy, Mr. Guest's frequent collaborator is right on the money as the dentist with singing aspirations. Parker Posey, is the girl who thinks Broadway is only a few steps away. Paul Dooley, Don Lake, Larry Miller,Linda Kash, are among the citizens of Blaine one gets to know in the film.Of course, none of this would have been possible without Christopher Guest. It's a shame we don't get to see more of him, but that makes even better whatever he decides to offer us from time to time. "},{"Title":"Who's on Top Now!","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Waiting for Guffman', while lacking the expansive detail of the seminal 'This is Spinal Tap', is still a worthy addition to Guest's filmography. The story, as ever, is really quite irrelevant, as the pleasure to be had from these films is in meeting the characters that the actors forge from intensive improvisation. What never ceases to amaze is that these 'improvised' characters have more depth, subtlety and believability than the large majority of traditionally crafted and scripted characters. Equally as impressive is the refusal to turn any character into an object of derision. For all their seeming vacuous vanity and ego driven foibles, these are essentially good people. The entire movie is infused with a benign joy and heartfelt warmth that is irresistible.As others have said, the highlight of the movie is a scene that can only be seen in the DVD extras &#150; Libby Mae Brown's audition monologue &#150; an incredibly well written and executed performance that reveals more about her character and Posie's talent than many award winning turns.As ever, the musical numbers by 'Taps' Guest, McKean and Shearer are brilliant &#150; catchy and witty and performed just on the right side of endearing amateurishness.An excellent movie, that compensates for the lack of laugh-out-loud moments with well crafted, beautifully realized characters, and inspired songs. "}{"Title":"A uniquely funny film...","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first visited Disneyland, I was disappointed, at least for the first hour or two. I was used to amusement parks with really wild rides that shook you around and scared you. Only when I realized that Disney was going for FUN instead of THRILLS did I relax and enjoy myself. My expectations of what an amusement park should be had been in the way.Likewise, your expectations of what a movie comedy should be can get in your way when viewing Waiting for Guffman. If you have been raised on Hollywood's standard punchline-a-minute or gross-out comedies and are expecting the same here, you will be disappointed. The humor is subtle and character-driven.That having been said, Guffman is funnier than a dozen in-your-face movie comedies put together. Director Christopher Guest assembled a group of talented actors and assigned to each of them a small-town character. He then gave each character the opportunity to be an UN-talented actor in a community production. The majority of the dialog is unscripted, and the show the actors are called on to do is horrendously bad, but laughs flow from the sincerity of the characters and their (very unearned) high opinion of their talent and their show.Full of gentle digs at small-town life and amateur theater, Waiting for Guffman is not your typical comedy, but it is very funny and well worth your time -- as long as you don't expect it to be something it's not.Oh, and as noted elsewhere in these user comments, don't miss the closing credits. I'm still hoping to locate some My Dinner With Andre action figures and a Remains of the Day lunchbox. "},{"Title":"The best from Guest","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting for Guffman is a mockumentary about a small town putting on a production in hopes of making it to Broadway. This new acting trope is led by rather eccentric Corky St. Clair(Christopher Guest), and consists of two travel agents(who have never left town), A Dairy Queen employee, a rather geeky dentist with a lazy eye, and so much more. The movie follows these cast of players with the support of the town, as they put on a production called, Red, White, and Blaine(Blaine being the town they live in).What is best about this movie is that the only scripted scenes were that of the actual play. Everything else is completely ad-libbed which makes this movie genuine and just downright funny. Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy, in my opinion, are purely brilliant. The plot works, the characters are so offbeat and hysterical that I can still recall almost every single line they said.All in all, Waiting for Guffman is perhaps one of, if not the, funniest movie I have ever seen. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Just alright","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting for Guffman is another mockumentary done by Christopher Guest and co. It is set in the town of Blain and focuses on a musical being produced to honour the city's 150yr celebration.Corky (Guest) is the former off-off-off Broadway director who gathers a cast of local wannabe actors to put together a musical telling the proud town's history. Among the local talent are Ron & Sheila ALbertson (the awesome Fred Willard and Catherine O'Hara) and dentist Dr Alan Pearl (Eugene Levy, funny as always). Excitement builds when the cast discovers Broadway producer Guffman is coming to town to see the musical, with many hoping this could be their big break.The last 20mins of the film is the musical itself, which is pretty funny, as well as charming. The crowd acts as if they're watching Shakespeare, and the cast gives it's all in what is a pretty amateur show.Some decent gags, many of which are subtle. Not in the Best In Show class, but not too bad. Guest and Willard keep the thing moving, but if Levy and Willard had greater roles in what is a short film, it could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Subtle Comedy","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can only guess from some of the negative comments I've read below that if you don't have any experience with community theatre, Waiting For Guffman may not be quite as funny to you.  I can only guess at this; I've been involved with community theatre in the past (and I grew up in a small town, no less), and the entire time I watched this movie I found myself saying, I KNOW these people - I've acted with them!The entire cast is brilliant - it's apparent from their performances that they're no strangers to the eccentric extroverts who are drawn to community theatre, as they portray them flawlessly.  They're absolutely ridiculous yet normal people (the portrayals are never over-the-top in a Jim Carrey / Zucker movie kind of way, but disturbingly believable), but I think it's their oblivious sincerity which makes it as funny as it is, while at the same time introducing a note of tragedy.If you've had any experience with community theatre or trying to accomplish something creative in a small town, you really need to see this movie.  Chances are you'll spot someone frighteningly familiar to you...As an aside, compare this with this acting company's more recent production, Best In Show (and, of course, This Is Spinal Tap), to get a strong idea of Christopher Guest's incredible acting range. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all times. The entire cast is brilliant. Corky!!! I just love this movie. Catherine O'Hare,Christopher Guest, Parker Posey, everyone was so wonderful. The whole cast is so natural it seems as if the whole movie is improvised. I laughed so hard I cried during the chinese restaurant scene. and Posey screaming We love you Corky! If you are artistic and/or creative at all you will adore this movie and be forever in love with all of the actors, as I am. Even David Cross's small part as the crop circle guy is just priceless. If you are an actor,director,casting director,agent you must see this movie or you are not worth your salt. Also you must enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A perfect hilarious recreation of community theater!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who has been involved in community theater will recognize a counterpart in each of these characters.  This film portrays the varying levels of ego (which tend to run rampant in community theater), horrible visual and sound effects and provides enough laughs to make your sides ache! Christopher Guest is priceless as Corky St. Clair and Parker Posey once again proves that she well deserves the title Queen of the Indies.Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Guest's First Ensemble Comedy Is Perfect","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting for Guffman may just be that rare thing the perfect comedy.It's brilliantly (and I don't use that word lightly) written and acted. I think it would be easy to dismiss the talent that went into this film, because it looks so effortless on screen, but you would have to be a wonderful actor to make material this subtle and dead pan work as well as it does here.Guffman is better than any of the follow up films Christopher Guest and his recurrent ensemble have made since because it doesn't stretch itself too thin. Guest focuses on a handful of main characters, and all of his other players get much smaller but no less hysterical roles to play. This is in sharp contrast to his most recent movie, For Your Consideration, in which he tries to give everyone equal screen time with the results being that everyone gets short changed.I grew up in a tiny town of 500 people in rural Illinois, and I remember our town celebrating its bicentennial. We even had a little pageant full of skits (I had a part in it myself). And I have to say that it was EXACTLY like this movie. The actors don't even have to exaggerate much to capture that feeling of small-town folks who take themselves and their little village ultra-seriously.Councilman/Pharmacist Corky, our budget for the entire year is $50,000, and that includes swimming. Corky Well, I don't have any swimming in my show. I'm sorry, but if you can't understand why an exchange like that is funny, I can't help you.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"The Forgotten One?","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An aspiring director (Christopher Guest) and the marginally talented amateur cast of a hokey small-town Missouri musical production go overboard when they learn that someone from Broadway will be in attendance.Despite the incredibly cast (especially Parker Posey), this is not a film people usually talk about. In the same vein and from some of the same people, you hear a lot about Spinal tap and to a lesser extent Best in Show. How did this one quietly fade away? I guess Meryl Streep loves it, so that's good.This film seems like the precursor to Parks and Rec. Not the first fake documentary, but the focus on a small town and its inhabitants seems familiar. Even more than The Office, this seems to have the elements that made Parks and Rec great. "},{"Title":"Guest's Most Sequel-able Parody","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting for Guffman, the ensemble-driven mock-u-parody of community theater, differs in one engaging way from writer-director-star Christopher Guest's other inspections of American culture at its most banal. Principally, Guffman follows a group of people who (think they) are on life's upslope, building toward a great achievement of teamwork in showbiz. Guest's other movies with the same cast--viz. Best in Show, A Mighty Wind, For Your Consideration--are far more concerned with portraying the pathos of the has-been. In Guffman, Guest's character, Corky, is the only has-been, and then only if you count '10 years living in New York and failing auditions' as achieving something in show business. Guffman's characters are small town people at their most stereotypical ordinary selves, people yearning for a brush with the magic of being a part of a really good play. Consider Parker Posey's performance as Libby Mae Brown, the Dairy Queen worker. Posey tells you everything you need to know about the listless ennui of being stuck in a place with nothing to do and no way to grow with a couple of wordless moments where she looks away, her eyes reverberating what is not being said about the failure of dreams. Or take Bob Balaban's portrayal of the quietly suffering music teacher, deposed as the director of the town's annual play in favor of the terrible infant that is Corky (who has lived in New York, after all). The scene where Balaban's character reacts to Corky's reappearance at the helm of the production is a master class in comedic character acting in the most tissue-subtle way that it can be delivered.The thing about the failure of never-weres (as opposed to has-beens) is that the failure brings no sanction, no shame. Americans are raised on tales of The Little Engine That Could and Abe Lincoln's failed political campaigns before he became the greatest President in history. In America, if you aren't yet anything, and you try, we root for you. If you fail and try again, we find ourselves rooting twice as hard. This striving of small town nobodys towards the stardust of Broadway, home of another Abe, Abe Guffman, gives this film an emotional resonance fundamentally different from Guest's many other projects (even Spinal Tap). The result is that by the end of the film, we're not at all tired of the characters, or annoyed or sapped by their failure to get discovered. Guest could assemble a new script and make the sequel, could make a Guffman 2, and it would succeed with both his core audience and with a general audience, because everybody (in America, anyway) loves to see a first-timer try to make it big, whether it is their first attempt, or their tenth. "},{"Title":"Wonderful improvisational comedy","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's the sesquicentennial celebration for the small town of Blaine, Missouri. Former New Yorker Corky St.Clair (Christopher Guest) is putting on an amateur theater production of the town history using the wacky locals as the cast. Then Corky tells them about a Broadway theater critic Mort Guffman who is coming to see the opening of the show and jumps to the possibility of the show going to Broadway. Everybody starts dreaming big.After Spinal Tap, Christopher Guest finally produce something just as funny in the improvisational genre. He has gathered around him an overwhelming comedic cast. The town folks are all horrible actors but I fall for them because they are just so sincere. There is a lovable charm about them. It's not about big slapstick gags. They do get some big laughs although different people will laugh at different things. It's about the actors finding humor in their characters' humanity and oddity. "}{"Title":"Hilarious and moving","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know, there's an old saying in Missouri that if you don't like the weather, just wait five minutes. In Blain, I honestly believe, with hard work, we can get that down to three or four minutes.Hilarious, moving, sweet, quaint, great. Christopher Guest, one of the creative geniuses behind This is Spinal Tap, now turns his attention to small town America, and the result is brilliant. Original plot, incredibly funny understated dialogue, amusing perfect- for-the-movie music. Starts as a spoof of small town America and ends as a moving examination of small town innocence, hidden talent, values and goodness.Casting is perfect. Christopher Guest, Eugene Levy, Fred Willard, Catherine O'Hara and Parker Posey shine.Superb movie. "},{"Title":"Funny indie film worth watching","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Classic Christopher Guest directing, excellent improv acting, hilarious songs during the play in the movie, and a great start to a line of movies that Guest directed in this way. Notable scenes Eugene Levy's impression of Johnny Carson's impression of an Indian, Catherine O'Hara's bangs (straight up!), the first of Fred Willard's impressions of how TV personalities talk (which he later reprised in A Mighty Wind), Parker Posey's character talking ad nauseum about Dairy Queen creations, and Eugene Levy's martian song at the play. Too many parts to mention here, you'll just have to see for yourself.It should be noted that the Family Guy character of Bruce sounds exactly like Guest's Corky St. Clair. This is one of the better Guest movies to watch, so I don't think you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The Christopher Guest Show","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A small town in Missouri is celebrating the 150 years of its existence, and the people gather together to make a remarkable musical play telling the story of the city celebrating its great historical moments. In the hands of writer and director Christopher Guest it is a strange comedy with very traces of originality, after all he goes back to the recurring documentary style filmmaking with all the main characters getting interviewed, and the whole thing takes too long to become a enjoyable film. Christopher Guest plays the director of the play; Eugene Levy plays a dentist with notable singing skills; Fred Willard and Catherine O'Hara play a couple who is going to be part of this show, along with Parker Posey, Matt Keeslar, Bob Balaban and others. The movie begins with the selection of the participants and countless interviews with the people involved in this play. Then it evolves to the first rehearsals and the first problems involving budget, and a actor who couldn't perform on the day of the presentation. Along with it we know this eccentric town and its peculiar habitants telling stories about the city and their lives. The biggest happening for these people with this play is that a guy named Guffman will come to watch it and this guy happens to be very famous for producing plays on Braodway. So everybody wants to make their best and perform the best show ever made. Guest is known for a strange and sophisticated sense for comedy, and sometimes it's a good thing when everybody really knows what's happening in all the scenes. In the case of Waiting for Guffman the comedy took too long to be funny and the interviews once the greatest thing created by Guest in This is Spinal Tap was boring and unfunny. The scenes where the characters had dialog with each other worked way better, but some things could have been used more, explored more, developed to be funnier as it were e.g. the scene at the dinner where Fred Willard's character says that he made a penis reduction because the thing was too big. The joke went so fast that I was expecting more of it and then nothing.But I must say that this film didn't disappoint me in the so awaited play. It was the best thing in the whole film, it wasn't a disaster as it might seem predicted (after all it's a show of amateurs). It was interesting, creative and very amusing. The casting was great (both in the play and in the movie). It is one of those films that in the beginning doesn't offer much but you must not give up, just keep watching and you'll be glad for it. Among the funniest parts my favorite is near the final credits when Guest character shows lots of toys based on films (a lunch box of the film The Remains of the Day, Andrew McCarthy and Anthony Michael Hall little statues, and the tiny toys recreating a scene of My Dinner With Andre). Nice film. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Waiting for Godot, I mean, Guffman","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting for Guffman (1996) THE FINEST assemblage of straight-faced comedians in all of history, create one of THE funniest movies EVER. Waiting for Guffman is about humans with more than enough faith...AND self-delusions. Christopher Guest is the driving force, both in front of and behind the camera, and along with Eugene Levy, portray a small town's population creating a small play about their small history, which is a VERY BIG deal to them. Guest's consistent theme (throughout his films) is about humans who don't have enough insight or talent to spot the lack of it within themselves. There is an incredible blind faith, tenderness and embarrassing, misguided drive within these people. And yet, within their little world, they support the dreams for one another, and move through their lives with solid delusion. This is Spinal Tap, Best in Show, and A Mighty Wind are other great examples. Guest also has the sense to call back his actors for further projects. This is brilliant work. "},{"Title":"Red, White, and Blaine","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Thanks be to cable for reviving this very non-commercial film. It's a sweet send-up of small town America that comes across like an extended version of Second City Review or Saturday Night Live. Sure, some of the parody is pointed, but it's never mean-spirited. Blaine, Missouri, in the heart of the state, is having its 150th anniversary, and by golly the town's theatrical types are going to do it up right. Never mind that the talent is spread pretty thin from the stage struck town dentist (Eugene Levy), to travel agents (Fred Willard & Catherine O'Hara), to Dairy Queen princess (Parker Posey). Or that their inspiration comes from an off- off-off Broadway impresario (Christopher Guest), temporarily on leave from the Big Apple. He may not be your typical macho mid-western type, but he did serve on a destroyer and does have a wife, somewhere, so he says.It's all handled with just the right amount of tongue-in-cheek, as we watch the cast lumber, stagger, and flounce through their dance routines and dream of Real stage success. Naturally, we expect the final result, the pageant performance before the whole town, to nose-dive., But it doesn't. Instead, the stage performance comes across rather sweetly, with just the right amount of unpolished success that brings the whole town to its feet in a boffo finale. What happens then is comical and not too surprising, considering all the low rent motels surrounding Hollywood. Levy, Willard, and the others are uniformly excellent as would be expected of veteran sketch artists. I don't know who to thank for the movie that had no obvious future, commercial or otherwise. But for darn sure this little sleeper goes into my tape library for repeated viewing. "},{"Title":"S_W's review of 'Waiting for Guffman' (1996)","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Christopher Guest is a comedic genius. It's as simple as that. His part-improv mockumentaries are some of the best comedies in recent cinematic history. 'Waiting for Guffman' is the first.The film focuses on the small-town of Blaine's sesquicentennial (that's 150th) celebration and the original play 'Red, White, and Blaine.' Blaine, MO, is, as everyone knows. . . the stool capital of the world. By 'stool,' I mean the one you sit on. Not the, well, you get it.Complications arise in the production when Broadway announces they're sending a representative (Guffman, as the title suggests) to see the show with the chance of sending it to New York City! However, Corky (Christopher Guest), the off-off-off-off Broadway director in charge of the production, (briefly) leaves the production due to financial complications between him and the town council.Things eventually start to run smooth, however, and the production goes on for the town, and it's a good one at that! Great performances by the usual cast (Eugene Levy, Fred Willard, Catherine O'Hara, Guest, and Parker Posey) make this film one comedy (deeper than most, I must mention). Do not 'Wait'! Final verdict 9/10.-AP3- "},{"Title":"American Idol meets The Gong Show Worth a Viewing -- But Maybe Once Is Enough","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Movies seem to fall into three categories. Those not worth seeing, those worth seeing again and again, and those worth a single viewing. In other words, some movies are a single bag of popcorn experience. Waiting for Guffman comes under the latter category. Seeing it more than once may diminish it as it doesn't really have much more to say than what the typical movie-goer will pretty much absorb in less than 90 minutes. There are some underlying themes but they are applied with a sledge-hammer. Simultaneously, this is a movie more for people in the entertainment industry, particularly in the Broadway scene, as there are a few in-jokes. Some friends of mine who have worked in live theater swear by it as one of the funniest movies they have ever seen. Not quite as wacky as Airplane or This is Spinal Tap (which was made by the same people minus Rob Reiner), but Guffman has its moments.Briefly, the film is a mockumentary (a satirical comedy done in documentary form, like Woody Allen's Take the Money and Run) about the ridiculousness of small-town theater, and maybe the ridiculousness of small-town Midwest American culture. In short, how Midwest small-town America has about as much culture as the outhouses that line the city blocks during a parade down Main Street. Or at least that's how the filmmakers view the community of Blaine, as a nondescript backward American mistake in Missouri that probably doesn't even show up on the map. Of course the rhetorical viewpoint is a gross stereotype in and of itself. Even the raunchiest of wild west towns occasionally performed Shakespeare. But to get the laughs, the filmmakers portray Blaine as the kind of town that probably thinks Gomer Pyle USMC is high art.The thrust of the story, if you can call it a story, is Blaine's attempt to produce a musical based on the history of their town. The details of which could probably be jotted down on a piece of notebook paper and you'd still have more than a page and a half left to fill in a grocery shopping list. The mayor and council members have hired a gay wanna-be Broadway actor/writer/director, Corky St. Clair (Christopher Guest, who also directs the film), to write and oversee the musical. Everything is over of the top, which is of course the point. Simultaneously, Guest as the gay musical director was a little much, even for a film that is supposed to be purely for laughs. His gay personality is incredibly stereotypical, and in many scenes he acts exactly as you would expect him, getting unmanageably hysterical over minute details, or emotional when things don't work his way. Maybe I wanted something a little more to him than just the typical gay director who always has his hands on his hips. The other characters, chiefly the actors and actresses who get the parts for the musical, of course believe they are all unknown stars waiting to happen, destined for stardom, but just never had the chance before. And at one point, the cast is promised that Mr Guffman, a talent scout and agent from New York, will travel to Blaine to see their musical and help launch everybody's careers. Hence the title.Then there is the play itself, the musical about Blaine. Unfortunately, it is not just Bad (capital B) but it is not so bad it's good, of the Plan 9 From Outer Space variety. It is just plain bad. Or idiotic is the better word. It's a romp through Blaine's history, which actually makes Romper Room look like Gone With the Wind. The story is narrated directly to the audience by an old coot at a campfire. Just before curtain, we learn that one of the young male actors won't be appearing and Corky will take his place. This was for me the lowest moment of the film. Corky as the replacement makes no attempt to become the character he is playing, but instead just lets his gay personality shine through, particularly during a duet with a young woman where he is supposed to be a young heterosexual soldier about to go to World War I. I felt the scene bordered offensiveness, as a true Broadway actor worth his salt would, whether gay or not, attempt to act in character that was relatively consistent with the script. I think it would have been far funnier if he tried desperately to be more masculine a la Cage aux Folles with tragic results.Given these shortcomings, Guffman has its moments. Maybe too many of them. The auditions sequence is almost unbearable, obviously poking fun at the idea that terrible talent always thinks they are much better than they are. A sort of American Idol meets The Gong Show. Some of the best moments are interviews with the locals who trace their history back to the original foundation of Blaine, in which 19th-century pioneers supposedly thought they had reached the west coast and didn't realize they were 2000 miles off before deciding to create their town. Which is of course the idea behind the creation of the Blaine musical and being more than somewhat ill-conceived. Larry Miller as the town mayor is priceless, almost perfect casting. I would have liked a little more screen time for Bob Balaban as the music teacher who conducts the lifeless orchestra. Check out the trumpet player if you get a chance! You have to credit writer/actor/director Guest for at least the most improbable and highly original idea for comedic satire. Maybe it would have actually been funnier and more insightful if Guest had found a town in heartland America and uncovered what made them tick instead of lapsing into such exaggerated stereotypes. "},{"Title":"Hey, guys, come over to my house and we'll shoot a movie!","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie, too! It is not for those who want a slick and scripted product but if you enjoy watching good actors play with characters you'll probably like this one a lot. The plot is this A struggling off-Broadway director (Christopher Guest) find himself in a small and very strange little town using local talent to put on an historical drama. When he learns that a Broadway producer is sending someone (Mr Guffman) to see the production, he, the cast, and the whole town suddenly sense the possibility of being in the national spotlight. The result of this pseudo-documentary is a cast of over-the-top deeply flawed characters who say completely unexpected and outrageous things that, within the context of the film, are actually believable. Most of the actors portray characters we have seen them do many times before but, Waiting for Guffman allows them to take those familiar characters to places they've never been on the screen. Catherine O'Hara and Parker Posey do especially nice work. Nothing heavy, no real messages, lots of fun. "},{"Title":"ready for a few cracks","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" an entertaining spoonful for heroes. Like fishing in the sea you turn up with something after the day is done. A few smiles and chuckles will follow you through this one. Ad-libb-ly and grabbing at a bowl to make yourself useful. A clean fight the whole way, no shots fired and clean fun for the kids. Jumping rope, hopscotch and calling someone your best friend fills the warm belly of this one. It can stall and fall at times but the whole train arrives at some point and the end closes with some fast smart jokes that pull the uncle out of you. Watch it at night with a glass of Scotch and the lights turned down low, clean slippers on your feet and relax. "},{"Title":"Gotta Love the Blaine Way","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have to say that Waiting for Guffman is my favorite of the Christopher Guest movies. I thought it was a brilliant comedy. It was dry and bland, jut like a real documentary would be. Yet, the characters being documented were so far off the wall that I started thinking maybe they came along with their Alien friends that is such an integral piece of Blaine's history.Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy are absolutely brilliant as well. Both actors play such a versatile range of characters that I love them! Corky (Guest) was probably one of the most amusing characters I have ever seen and some of his lines are quoted around my house quite frequently these days.The only thing I would have liked to have seen more of was the actual production Red, White and Blaine. But, the deleted scenes in the DVD edition do provide that! "}{"Title":"A Night At The Theater","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The town play, an American tradition since the Mayflower came to our shores, has been a tradition that sometimes should be done away with. Movies like Waiting for Guffman further that argument. The quiet, yet very funny effort from Best In Show and A Mighty Wind writer/director Christopher Guest and writer Eugene Levy details the triumphs and failures of small-town America putting on a play retracing the history of Blaine, Missouri, founded by a band of brothers trying to find California. It's sly humor, sprinkled throughout the movie, that make this a charming look at America. Guest, Levy, Catherine O'Hara, Fred Willard, Parker Posey, Larry Miller, and David Cross headline the comedy troupe that improvises their way through the auditions, rehearsals, and performance of the play Red, White, and Blaine! Each smalltime actor is motivated, not by wanting to capture the town's history in play form, but rather because Broadway talent scout Mort Guffman is supposed to attend the play, possibly giving each actor their big break. Of course there are various other small episodes throughout the movie that gives Waiting for Guffman it's humor. Willard and O'Hara are travel agents who set up their clients on trips from Miami to Paris, but themselves have never left the town of Blaine. Levy is a dentist who thinks he's funny, but have you ever met a funny dentist? And Guest is over the top in his portrayal of Corkey St. Clair, the flaming director of the play. The last act of the film is the play itself, and is it's own source of comedy, featuring the song Nothing Ever Happens on Mars, recounting the time a UFO supposedly landed in Blaine. The movie is quick, there is no fat, and very funny. Most of the humor comes from small details, so pay attention to the small things, and you'll love this even more. "},{"Title":"If you like Spinal Tap you'll like this","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time. Christopher Guest nails his role as the gay theater director. Well, he says he's married but we never see a wife. I don't know if any gay men or politically-correct viewers might be offended by the character of Corky St. Clair, but I have seen so many gay men - especially in the theater world - who look and act like Corky does (with the possible exception of his temper flare-ups). I don't know how to describe Guest's brand of humor, but it's distinctive and in this movie very reminiscent of So This is Spinal Tap. Interestingly, on second viewing (with commentary), I laughed a lot harder at some jokes, such as Parker Posey barbecuing one miniscule chicken wing and nothing else. Much of the humor is subtle and easy to miss, which can also be said about the commentary, which is funny in its own right.  "},{"Title":"Best Scene?  The Final One","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Like all of the Christopher Guest mockumentaries, this movie has its hilarious moments.   Fewer than Best in Show but enough to reward Guest's many admirers.   My favorite is the final scene in which Corky St. Clair, Guest's character, returns to Broadway and operates a theatrical gew-gaw boutique.   When he shows off his action figures from Dinner with Andre, a notoriously static film, the concept is  perfect and the execution worth the entire film.   But I also enjoyed watching the other Guest regulars, especially Parker Posey whose comic talent is unbelievable.   Why she isn't on every comedy director's must-have list is a mystery to me.     "},{"Title":"Fun and talented","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A mockumentary by those who brought you Spinal Tap, Best in Show, and A Mighty Wind, this movie is made along the same lines. Waiting for Guffman is a unique film filled with improvisation and a truly funny and talented cast. Little or no script was involved in the making of this film. It is film you will either not understand or you will love. I love Guffman and watch it on a regular basis and enjoy sharing it with friends. If you like unique movies or have enjoyed other Christopher Guest films, watch this film...I feel it's the best of all his work, although, Spinal Tap is a classic! Also, if you rent the Guffman DVD, make sure to watch outtakes and listen to the commentary track included.  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully funny movie.","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, it was like I was being transported to my own small, midwest hometown.  I read another user comment from someone that thought that the movie was horrible.  To that person I say that they just didn't get it.There were so many odd, little funny things in the movie that I was laughing all of the way through.  One example would be the guy who goes out to the UFO landing site everyday and measures the cirlcle left in the ground.  He claims that although the circumferece and the diameter change just slightly all of the time, that the radius stays the same.  Anyone with a basic knowledge of geometry knows why that is so funny.Great movie.  I'm going to have to try to find it on video. "},{"Title":"Three Cheers for the Red, White and Blaine","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The comic genius of Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy truly shines in this fictional documentary about a musical production for the 150th anniversary of a small Missouri town and the local folks who star in it.  As in their more recent movies, Best In Show and A Mighty Wind, they began with a storyline and then recruited some of the most talented improvisational actors to play the characters.  The result is a deliciously funny, yet also endearing story with lots of surprising twists.  Worth watching again and again. "},{"Title":"Funny.","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A few days ago, I gave Christopher Guest's A MIGHTY WIND a moderately bad review. It wasn't very funny, I said, and worse, Guest doesn't seem to understand the whole concept of the pseudo-documentary which Rob Reiner used so brilliantly in THIS IS SPINAL TAP. While the genius of TAP is that it almost perfectly recreates the documentary feel (with only one fairly minor misstep that I can see), A MIGHTY WIND simply doesn't play like a documentary. However, it's obvious that Guest is a talented guy, and anyway, I had a free Blockbuster coupon, so I decided to rent WAITING FOR GUFFMAN.GUFFMAN suffers from many of the the same stylistic shortcomings as WIND characters and situations which are movie-quirky rather than realistically quirky, shots which don't make sense in a documentary format, too many cameras (none of which ever get caught by another camera, funnily enough) during the onstage scenes, and a trumpeter who quite obviously isn't actually playing.However, GUFFMAN is funnier than WIND, and having sat down not expecting the film to play like a documentary, it wasn't nearly so jarring when it didn't. As a straight comedy, ignoring the whole documentary thing, it's quite good. Just don't expect an achievement on the level of SPINAL TAP.In fact, I think I'll probably give A MIGHTY WIND another chance someday, and perhaps my opinion of it will improve.(And in fact, it did.) "},{"Title":"Underrated, but excellent","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waiting for Guffman is a movie that anyone with a background in theater can appreciate.  That's not necessary, but it adds to the overall experience.  Guffman is a brilliant piece of filmmaking, especially in the fact that a great deal of it was unscripted.  Much like This Is Spinal Tap before it, and Best In Show after it, the improvsational skills of the actors carries the film.It's probably the weakest of the Christopher Guest mockumentaries, but it's still a great film. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film!","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I only got to see this film for the first time last weekend. This is due to the criminal fact that the movie wasn't released in Ireland. Thus, as part of a Christopher Guest season at the Irish Film Institute there were two packed-out screenings of Waiting For Guffman.It probably helped a lot to see this film for the first time amongst a pack of Christopher Guest fans. Applause at the cinema is not a common occurrence here though I have often heard it said that American audiences are liable to laugh out loud, cheer, clap or salute at the cinema. This was a first for me. But it was nice to find the audience at the cinema applauding along with the audience on the screen.The film itself was a treat. I found the characters hilarious, though perhaps a little cliche. The European image of Americans was given plenty of fodder in Waiting for Guffman. The plot twists and turns were very predictable but it was the performances which made this film. It wasn't important that you knew what would happen next. What made the film buzz was the passion with which the actors portrayed their various pearls. Guest himself was particularly good. When I see a picture of him from this, Spinal Tap, Best of Show and A Mighty Wind I just can't believe it's the same man.I think Waiting for Guffman was an enjoyable film and I was very disappointed to discover that the DVD is only available on Region 1. Judging by what I saw last weekend, there are plenty of people in Region 2 who'd b e willing to buy the DVD if they could only get it. "},{"Title":"Too funny!","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a must-see for anyone who ever did theater in high school, or who is familiar with small-town Midwestern life.It made me laugh at how silly I really must have looked in all of those shows where we were sure we were destined for Broadway, and at the same time made me miss my theater friends very much.The fact that the film is part of Christopher Guest & Eugene Levy's trilogy of hysterical, improv-ed films makes it all the more impressive and worth watching over and over again. "}{"Title":"Comedy At Its Best!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waiting For Guffman is a mockumentary about a small town in Missouri, celebrating its anniversary. For the Sesquicentennial Anniversary, a play must be put on for the town on it's history. The town hires Corky St. Claire, a terrible director, to put on the play. And with a terrible director, comes a terrible cast, a terrible soundtrack, and therefore a terrible performance. The best part is, these people in the play's performance think they are God's gift to acting. This film is hilarious for the fact that the characters couldn't take themselves more seriously. The comedic timing, acting, and dialogue is amazing. Performances from Fred Willard and Christopher Guest will leave you in tears (at least it did me). Now some are not into the mockumentary films, especially the Christopher Guest written and directed ones, but I think they are hilarious for anyone who likes creative, smart, and funny character comedy. If you enjoy this, rent Best in Show and A Mighty Wind. They aren't as good as Guffman, but pretty close. I haven't seen Spinal Tap in a while so I won't recommend it, in case. And of course, here's my critic's one liner review Waiting For Guffman is a catch you off guard, did they just say what I think they just said, comedy that will leave you laughing and rewinding, Christopher Guest strikes a funny bone with Waiting For Guffman. "},{"Title":"I really, really liked it!!","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  come on, this has GOT to be one of the best movies of all time.  I only started to watch it because I know Margaret Bowman (plays the costumer in the film) and then could not STOP watching it.  Every time I see it (and I do, every time it comes on) I just laugh and laugh.  Each character is funny and oh, soooo real in their own way (I live in a small town in southern Texas) and boy, are they realistic!! I also liked Chris' film about the dogs Best in Show.  Man, I wish I could get hooked up with that bunch...they really seem to have fun on their shoots and make the movie really fun to watch! (and isn't that what it's all about!!) "},{"Title":"Indictment of Small Town America; but a bit forced","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the few, if only movies I've seen that keeps its humor always under the radar -- so dry, so deadpan, and so on target! Hysterical in a tongue-in-cheek, sophisticated way. Too bad they couldn't have PG-13ed a couple of scenes to allow it a wider audience. I found some of the running jokes humorous, but a bit extended. OK; so Christopher's Corky gets to be fabulous in each outrageous costume with barely an eyebrow raised anywhere...I get the in-joke, over and over again. However, this movie gets and A for execution all the way. "},{"Title":"Would be actors, please take note","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From its opening scene (a major municipal decision about the location of port-a-potties) to its finale (Corky's toy store - the closest he'll ever get to Broadway) this utterly charming movie is a must not miss for anyone who ever performed in amateur theater or has any aspiration to do so.  On the DVD it is fun not only to stop the antics of the actors but to scan slowly the truly genuine reactions of the audience.  The only thing baffling to me was leaving the preface to Nothing Ever Happens on Mars on the cutting room floor.  Boring, boring, boring, although truly wonderful,  was the only scene that seemed to have a break in continuity.  With its lack of publicity and off-the-wall nature, Waiting for Guffman (like Spinal Tap) will likely become a cult film.  I am most pleased to be a member of that cult! "},{"Title":"Guest's Best","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A spot-on skewering of community theaters everywhere, Guffman contains some of the best improvisation ever seen on film. Every actor is deadpan-brilliant, from the nearly expressionless Bob Balaban to the endlessly grinning Fred Willard to the ebulliently stupid Parker Posey. But director/cowriter Christopher Guest, as the immortal Corky St. Clair, steals the show. His performance dives into the thick of stereotypes only to transcend them, becoming a hilarious and intimate portrait of a sweet, deluded, utterly talentless artist.Not as deathless as Spinal Tap, but arguably funnier, Guffman will please anyone with an ear for finely-tuned absurdity -- and certainly anyone who has ever descended into the peculiar, self-justifying world of amateur theater. "},{"Title":"Guest's Best","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A spot-on skewering of community theaters everywhere, Guffman contains some of the best improvisation ever seen on film. Every actor is deadpan-brilliant, from the nearly expressionless Bob Balaban to the endlessly grinning Fred Willard to the ebulliently stupid Parker Posey. But director/cowriter Christopher Guest, as the immortal Corky St. Clair, steals the show. His performance dives into the thick of stereotypes only to transcend them, becoming a hilarious and intimate portrait of a sweet, deluded, utterly talentless artist.Not as deathless as Spinal Tap, but arguably funnier, Guffman will please anyone with an ear for finely-tuned absurdity -- and certainly anyone who has ever descended into the peculiar, self-justifying world of amateur theater. "},{"Title":"Gets better and better","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw Waiting for Guffman a few years ago and enjoyed it a lot.  Tonight I watched it on DVD with a friend and enjoyed it even more, then after my friend went home I immediately watched it again and laughed more than ever.  I have known people exactly like almost every character in the film--having lived in a couple of smallish towns in the Midwest earlier in my life.  Christopher Guest's portrayal of Corky St. Clair has got to be one of the all-time tours-de-force of acting.  One thing I noticed tonight was the utter goodness of the dentist character and his wife.  Those portrayals strike me as right on the mark, too.  I've known a tiny handful of people who seemingly have not the slightest mean streak in them.  When the wife impulsively starts to applaud her husband's stage performance, then stops herself with an embarrassed yet pleased look--I was close to tears.  What a refreshing thing to experience on the screen.  But the whole piece is so good-hearted that the movie's very tone creates a large part of the enjoyment.  It's absurd that this movie has an R-rating simply because of a couple of lines quoted from another movie.  For shame.  On the other hand, I don't know that many children would get it.   "},{"Title":"Now I've completed my collection!","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had seen Spinal Tap, A Mighty Wind, and Best in Show, and now the one I had missed, Waiting for Guffman.  These are all movies you have to see more than once to appreciate.  There is so much going on beneath the surface.  They are not laugh-out-loud funny.  There is some kind of deeper humor here that you have to really pay attention to to get.  I am glad I watched the deleted scenes on the DVD.  Even on the first run through I knew that Nothing Ever Happens on Mars was supposed to have a companion piece. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you've ever participated in community theatre, you MUST see this film. It rings so true that it's embarrassing to those of us who have been there. It's also fall-off-the-couch, gasping-for-breath hilarious.  This cast has a good portion of Hollywood's funniest.  Between the writing, performances and subject matter, I think this is the best Guest/Levy film yet. "},{"Title":"Took a second viewing to fully appreciate it.","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As with most movies, Waiting For Guffman was much more enjoyable after I saw it a second time. I constantly hear people raving about Guest's movies or completely bashing them. Well, I won't say this is a laugh-out loud comedy, because it's not. But, it is definitely a well-written and funny movie that looks into the lives of small midwest actors. I liked this movie for many small-but-great reasons. The subtle humor works perfectly and the acting is extremely good. The shots of everybody in the audience is so dead on! The best acting (IMO) occurs in the last 15 minutes or so. I have seen Spinal Tap once and tried to watch Best In Show and didn't really like them. But! Waiting For Guffman has made me a believer out of these comedies. True, they are not for everyone. I admit I love slapstick and raunchy humor (Naked Gun,Airplane!). But I also appreciate this movie as well. I hate saying this because so many others have said it, too. But, if you don't like this movie you probably aren't smart enough to. It's not an average movie-goers genre at all. It requires the viewer to actually pay attention and notice the little things. Case in point-the scenes with the orchestra would appear to be pointless to someone who doesn't get it. But those scenes are so good at mocking reality!! It took me awhile, but I can say I'm a fan of Guest's work now. And I have Waiting For Guffman to thank! "}{"Title":"Corky","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest is a master of improvisation.  As he director, he nurtures his actors in such an environment and provides the audience with many subtle laughs.  But, you got to be in the mood for this picture.  Because at times, its senseless.Ted's Grade B   "},{"Title":"Guest's best film since Spinal Tap- 8/10","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spinal Tap remains to be Christopher Guest's masterpiece, and one of the funniest films of all time.  Waiting for Guffman is his second best.The plot is fairly simple A small town in Missouri is approaching its 150th anniversary and as a part of the festivities, Corky St. Clair (Guest), the local drama teacher, is putting on a musical about the history of the town. This mocumentary revolves around Corky and the musical's participants as they go through auditions, rehearsals, and the actual performance.  The characters are well-developed and they all have very humorous monologues (the movie was improvised; there was no script).  The character interactions in the film are also very funny.If you enjoyed any of Guest's other films (Spinal Tap, Best in Show, A Mighty wind), then this film would be an excellent investment of your time. "},{"Title":"Brilliance; hillarious perspective on Mid-Westwern sociology","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We've all eaten at (or at least seen) a Dairy Queen.  We've all seen a small production with less than talented players.  Waiting for Guffman superbly illustrates the tiny idiosyncrocies of a small mid-western town. Christopher Guest is a master of creating characters that we've all known or met in our lives and bringing all of their funny quirks.  A WONDERFUL film for anyone intelligent enough to understand it's understated humor!  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie Great for cast parties","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a theater person, this movie about a small community putting on a show is exactly my type of humor. I have so much respect for the actors. Improvisation is one of my favorite activites. I realize how hard it can be to improvise. Although they planned this movie's plot, the scenes were not scripted. I am absolutely amazed at how funny the movie is. If I could do ONE thing and be successful (besides getting married and raising a happy family), it would be to join a group like this one and improvise movies as hilarious as Waiting for Guffman. Watching Waiting for Guffman has become a tradition before the opening night of every one of my plays. This movie is NOT boring, nor is it too long. As a matter of fact, I wish the deleted scenes were left in the movie so more people could see them without needing a DVD player. I like this mockumentary even better than Best in Show (obviously, since it is my favorite movie, period). "},{"Title":"This movie is HILARIOUS!!!","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Contrary to Spinal Tap, this movie, being Christopher Guests Mockumentary Directorial Debut, is by far one of my favorite comedies (Apart from my #1 being Monty Python's Life of Brian). Waiting for Guffman truly captures what doing a play in a small, rural town (like Blaine) is like. The Drama, the tension, the excitement, the lack of talent, its all here in this movie rolled up into one wacky ball of comical satire. You really almost believe that somebody really did take a camera to a small town named Blaine, Missouri and filmed this real production. I guess that's why I love Mockumentary's so much. The people and situations seem so real but at the same time its just so ridiculously hilarious. No wonder Mockumentary is so Genius!!! "},{"Title":"I think I'll go home and bite my pillow!","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hilarious film. Especially if you are a theatre or drama personbecause no doubt you and everyone you know has seen it ahundred times. Who could forget classic lines likeJust say a line, that's what I like to do. Even if it's from anothershow.- The Fred Willard character.Definite cast party material-Hilarious! "},{"Title":"Brilliant comedy","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest just has a knack for Mockumentary.  If you've enjoyed his other stuff (This is Spinal Tap and Best In Show), then you're sure to enjoy Waiting For Guffman.Guest plays Corky St. Clair as the Broadway wannabe who never quite made it.  Now he lives in Blaine Missouri and he's just been chosen to direct the play Red, White, and Blaine.  His last play, Backdraft The Musical caused a ruckus and the whole idea of Ron Howard's movie being made into a musical is hilarious in itself.  The laughs come fast, making multiple viewings necessary.  I watched it three times, catching something different every time and I'm still not sure whether I've caught everything.  Sometimes the laughs are almost too subtle, but that's just part of what makes this one so brilliant.  There's a whole cast of well-knowns here, each delivering a hilarious, convincing performance and the whole thing capatures small-town life to a tee.  As the film's funniest character, Christopher Guest gives the outrageous Corky  a lisp that's most commonly associated with gays.  Whether Corky is gay or not, is never confirmed but it is kind of strange how he refers to his wife Bunny, even shops for her clothes, but no one has ever seen her... His temper tantrums are hilarious (ex the scene where he requests $100,000 to do the play) and he does have some pretty mean dance moves (priceless).  Seriously, if you like a good comedy and want something just a little different than the norm, check this one out.  It's rated R but, despite a couple of harsh words, it's good clean fun for the whole family.   "},{"Title":"Highly recommended for Guest fans and others","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest is one of the funniest writes/directors around.  I prefer his humor and sense of comedy over the more toilet oriented Farelly Brothers and their clones.  'Guffman' contains a lot of subtle or slightly visual comedy that gets funnier, the closer or more often one watches.While I usually prefer to rate a movie after one watching, having seen the movie and then run the DVD with comments from Guest and Gene Levy - I realized how good this movie is.  It's worth listening to the comments on the DVD just to hear Levy's comments about Corky's (Guest) choreography and how he couldn't keep a straight face while performing certain dance numbers.Guest has nailed the small-town feeling and the quality of local theater productions.  I had the same reaction as the town council members, when Corky asks for $100,000 after learning that the show might be viewed by a Broadway producer.  My only regret is that Mr. Guest and his Spinal Tap 'buds' wrote such catchy numbers that 'Blaine' is still running through my head a week later.  Or is that just because of the choreography. "},{"Title":"It's in my top 10","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Unlike most inept comedies being made today, Waiting for Guffman is not funny because they fall down or pull constant gross-out gags.  It's funny because the characters are so well defined and are so REAL that it's hard not to laugh at them because it appears that they are actually trying.  This is a comedy the way comedies are meant to be an uncensored look at the ridiculousness of life, unflinching and hilarious. "},{"Title":"Rent this one for good laughs!  A 9 in my book","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waiting for Guffman first-time viewers should be aware that the film is not quite what they are probably accustomed to.  Just sit back, remain open-minded, and don't be afraid to laugh at some of the most trivial little things.  Christopher Guest is a brilliant Corky, running a yearly musical in a small town, much like the one I live in.  This movie cracks me up because all of the characters remind me of the people in my town small-minded, with only a very narrow scope of the outside world.  For them, the town musical could go to Broadway, and its funny to see how clueless they really are, not to mention that Blaine's (the tiny town they live in)main production is in stool-making.  I can't really explain why it's so funny in one little review, it just is.  This movie really requires the watching.  Enjoy the cast's performances, especially don't miss out on the auditions!  lol!  ) "}{"Title":"Making fun of theater.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen a number of theater productions, and many of them are local. This makes fun of everything that is theater from broadway to the local scene. Blaine is the musical production that is made in the movie, which is about the city in which they live and its history.  Blaine is extremely finny, but it is also a good musical in its own right.  If you get the DVD version with special features, be sure to use them.  I recommend watching this bulging river which was cut from the movie because it was too long, but its great!   Overall, this is a really funny movie that can be enjoyed by everyone. "},{"Title":"almost good","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i know this is a satire of amateur theater production, but i just had an incredibly hard time believing that the town was populated entirely by a bunch of clueless dolts.  the homosexual tension between corky and the mechanic was really hilarious as was corky throughout, but not many laughs. too bad david cross did not have more scenes because he was one of the few truly funny characters.  uh, i saw it because it is a pretty acclaimed sleeper-film and that is the only reason why you should see it too. "},{"Title":"A welcome addition to the genre","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest and his stable of improvisational artists have created their own genre of movie.  What began with This is Spinal Tap continues with Waiting for Guffman, and later with Best in Show.  The concept, for those of you who are unfamiliar with it, is to create some interesting characters within a broad plot outline, coax various alumni of second city to participate, and start the cameras rolling.  The finished product has a very real documentary feel to it and is absolutely hysterical.In this effort we are given a behind the scenes look at the making of a small-town theatre project which celebrates the 150th anniversary of Blaine, Missouri.  We come to love these people and cheer their effort to put on a very special show.DVD includes good bonus materials including deleted scenes and commentary with Chris Guest and Eugene Levy.Double Feature suggestions Either State and Main or Best in Show.  "},{"Title":"Delightful Romp","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this on DVD last night and loved it.  It is very similar in style to This is Spinal Tap, another Christopher Guest vehicle, in that it is a mock documentary.  It tells the tale of a dead-end town that doesn't realize its status.  Lots of quirky characters inhabit the town, and you'll laugh at them all and feel pity as well.  Parker Posey, Catherine O'Hara, and Mr. Guest are particularly effective in their roles.  Be sure to watch the deleted scenes; they add more pathos to the film and round it out a bit, particularly for Mrs. O'Hara and Miss Posey.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Christopher Guest's hilarious musical/comedy/mockumentary","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waiting for Guffman ***1/2 out of **** This is one of the laugh-out-loud funniest films ever!  The mockumentary is simply about a group of derelict, rural citizens who attempt to stage a serious musical play of the founding of Blaine, Missouri for the 200th Anniversary.  Christopher Guest is the effeminate director who promises a visit from a New York critic to come and review the play.  The cast is perfect, including Eugene Levy, Fred Willard, and Catherine O'Hara.  The songs themselves will have you in the floor!  Funnier than Best in Show. MG "},{"Title":"very very funny -- a must-see","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ok i have to say that this movie is one of the funniest films i've seen in a LONG time, and i'd never even heard of it until a couple of days ago.its in the same vane as Drop Dead Gorgeous or This is Spinal Tap, a mockumentary.christopher guest (the six-fingered man from Princess Bride) is amazingly talented as an actor and a writer. and the prolific fred willard is so funny in anything he's in.i think this one is a must-see.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Comedies on the 90's!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the 90's, Hollywood studios introduced the world to the gross out comedy. Each year studios and filmakers upped the ante on just how disgusting a film could slip by the MPAA. While there were some funny films in there, There's Something About Mary and South Park B.L.U.,  most of the comedies released were just flat out stupid. Even Woody Allen struck a reef in the 90's. Celebrity comes rushing to my mind here.  While there wasn't much brain power being put to use in the studio system, the independent film industry showed that they had some brains and knew how to make a truely funny film.Filmed as a fake documentary, Waiting For Guffman tells the story of a small town USA's brief, (very brief) run in with showbiz. To commemorate 150th anniversary of the founding of Blaine, Missouri (the stool capital of the world), the town leaders commission a play, which is to be about Blaine's history. As you may have guessed, this isn't exactly going to be a high budget, professionally done production, but the local folks involved in the play don't seem to realize this.What makes the film brilliant is that Guest creates a group of widely diverse characters and puts them together in a situation, specifically the play. The interactions the characters have are just flat out hilarious. There's the flaming gay director who no one seems to realize is gay or a hack, a Jewish Dentist, a white trash girl who works at the DQ and two married travel agents who think that they really are actors. The funniest moments though, are when these characters are being interviewed and they talk about how impressed they are with themselves.This is just a fabulous comedy. If you've never seen it, do so ASAP. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What more can be said of this brilliant, sad, hilariously poignant(especially for those of us who have amateur theater experience(winces and sighs). I can't get enough of Christopher Guest. Ever since I first saw Spinal Tap ten years ago I've absolutely loved his work. And this, aside from some stereotypical homosexual stuff, but not too bad(what, gay men and the theater? NO! Surely you jest!) this is more of the same. Ever since he teamed up with Eugene Levy, too, he seems to be getting better. I find myself humming the stool song almost subconsciously. Off to go find it and foist it on another willing loved one 8/10 "},{"Title":"Better than Drop Dead Gorgeous, but not nearly as good as Spinal Tap.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I came to this movie with high expectations, having decided to seek it out after watching a recent broadcast of This is Spinal Tap and being reminded not only of how hilarious Spinal Tap was, but of how funny Christopher Guest can be. Unfortunately, I found Guffman to be only so-so at best.  The performances were generally a bit too broad;  had they played the characters just a bit straighter, it would've helped significantly. But a bigger problem was the overall lack of comic tension.  One of the things that made TISS work was the constant clash between Tap's inflated expectations and the humiliating reality to which they were subjected.  Part of the hilarity of something like the Stonehenge sequence or the Army gig was watching Tap grimly attempt to make the best of things time and time again despite miserable circumstances;  as a result, we can't help but sympathize with the poor buggers, and the comic effect is heightened through our identification with them. But in Guffman, that factor is minimal -- there's no one, except perhaps Guffman, in front of whom the characters would embarrass themselves;  everyone in the movie is more or less equally intoxicated by the ridiculousness of amateur theater. There's no risk, no moment at which we say to ourselves Oh, no... on behalf of the characters.  (During the audition sequences, I thought there would be, but Corky St. Clair's positive reaction disabused me of that notion.) Consequently, instead of sympathy and identification, we feel ironic detachment and a sense of superiority -- and for me, at least, that keeps the humor from ever really taking wing. In general, the gags were also not nearly as clever as those TISS. I admit, TISS did have the advantage of dry British wit, and as every American knows, nearly anything is ten times funnier when said with a British accent.  Still, most of the jokes in Guffman are of the Aren't these people ridiculous! variety -- which, again, doesn't work that well for me.  There were incipient ideas, like St. Clair's homosexual attraction to Savage, that could've led to sequences with greater levels of tension and, thus, comic possibility, if they had been developed further.  But instead, most of the humor is based on caricature, and although Guffman avoided smug superiority, it still failed to provide the kind of nuanced characterizations that would have engaged my sense of humor. To be fully honest, there were a few laughs in Guffman.  And it was much, much better than Drop Dead Gorgeous, which is one of the worst mockumentaries I've ever seen (and which suffers from a far more severe case of ironic detachment).  Still, I found it disappointing -- especially after having watched TISS so recently and being reminded of just how genuinely funny it was. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Satire","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I live in a small town (not quite as small as Blaine), and I've seenall these people before. A few years ago, our local thespian groupproduced A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum (oneof my favorite musicals), with full piano accompaniment. They hadto literally drag someone off the street to play the lead role ofPseudalus, and he couldn't even carry a tune. The only bright spotwas the girl who played the ingenue, obviously a natural talent andthe only one who seemed to know what the show was all about.Sometimes you're lucky enough to have one cast member whoalmost makes up for the wannabes.That was the last home-grown production I attended. This hilarious movie proves that there are lots of theatricalamateurs out there in small-town America, still waiting forGuffman. "}{"Title":"The sleeper comedy of the 90s!","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the olden, golden days of movie-watching, i.e., before VCRs, I would often go back and pay another whole buck or two to see a film comedy that really knocked me out of my penny loafers.  I'd go back and sit in the same darkened theatre, the same seat if possible, eating the same kind of popcorn, just because I couldn't wait years and years down the road for it to finally debut on The CBS Friday Night Movie.  In today's world, movies pop up at Blockbuster within a few short months after their release...or weeks if they're real stinkers...so if a great film comes along, you have only a few months to see it again.Not so with Waiting for Guffman..  I couldn't wait months to see it again.  I was back in that darkened theatre, same seat, same popcorn, within a week to see this small little comedy gem that came out of nowhere and knocked me out of my Dr. Martins.  I had to see it again because I missed so much the first time laughing my tail off.  I had to come back and catch every single word I'd missed.A self-described mock documentary, actor/director/co-writer Christopher Guest wickedly skewers hometown mores in such an ingenious, side-splitting fashion that I just had to forgive Guest for picking apart my own old hometown neighborhood!Guest wisely casts himself in the comedy role of the decade as the irrepressible Corky St. Clair, an outlandishly fey director (he says he is married but no one has ever met his wife!) who willingly takes on the burden of directing amateur (to say the least) locals in a new musical production proudly honoring the 150th anniversary of the founding of their town, Blaine, Missouri (the stool capital of the world) in the hopes of taking it straight to Broadway.Guest invests himself in the part for all it's worth, wringing every laugh possible without ever sacrificing the character's truth.  His ensemble of players are no slouches either.  Catherine O'Hara and Eugene Levy, as two of Blaine's more prominent citizens, are an absolute hoot together from audition to opening night performance.  They and the production have to be seen to be believed.  Everyone gets their laugh quota, right down to the stage manager and brass section!It's wicked, non-stop hilarity all the way...including the fabulous closing credits.  Don't wait.  You must see it...in a darkened theatre or not. "},{"Title":"a very subtle and brilliant comedy.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waiting for Guffman is a cult comedy.  It's an extremely funny film, but does not appeal to a wide audience.  If you can understand the parody that Christopher Guest makes about small town America, then you can have a fun time and it's a great film.  If your always sitting through the dialogues, waiting for the punch line to a joke, this film will not appetize.  I have lived in a small town, and all of these personalities in the movie are recognizable people in the small town community.  They are also, sad to say, people which deserve to be made fun of, because its us, and its people we know, and its sad!!  We have the ditzy girl from Dairy Queen, who lives in a small town, and who's only future will be, with Dairy Queen.  We have the dentist, who thinks he's gods gift to comedy, only he's so absolutely awful at making people laugh, and doesn't really know it.  Then we have the travel agent couple, who are the perfect soccer mom/softball dad team of dorks. They can't really act either.  The casting was perfect, because they were not beautiful people (which Hollywood likes to use, even in casting films about people in small towns), just faces which could appeal to the characters they played.  And the comedy of it all is the play they put on at the end.  It's horrid and akward, like most of your high school plays. Most of all, these people actually believe they are moving on to bigger and better things, and this play is the ticket.  Not to be mean or nothing, but in all honesty, a play about Blaine Missouri will not be going to Broadway. It appeals to no one except the local community.  On top of this, the entertainment is sappy.  Thus, the revinue would be a complete disaster to the rest of the world if such a thing were to escape the bonds of this small town.  Christopher Guest, knows this, and thats why its a failure.  Still, great film and well thought out.  8/ 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Satire of human self deception and yearning for the glamor of theater","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An excruciating funny and painfully revealing study of the hope and self deception that make life possible.  Any accurate observer of himself and other people in the act of deceiving themselves into believing in the glamor and interest and validity of their own lives will have that sense of painful recognition while watching this movie that is the essence of really memorable humor.  An absolute must see, which should be seen before Best of Show to make you properly appreciate the accomplishment of both the cast and director. "},{"Title":"If you've lived in a small town, you'll love it.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a latecomer to the work of Christopher Guest, who directs and stars in this movie. But after seeing Best in Show and laughing until it hurt, I had to see what else he had done. Waiting for Guffman did not disappoint, although I did like Best a little more.Waiting for Guffman is basically about how the folks of small town Blaine, Missouri prepare to put on a play to celebrate their 150th anniversary. Broadway veteran (and I use the term loosely) Corky St. Clair (Guest) is in charge and his cast is a collection of folks that you'd easily recognize from any small town. But O'Hara, Willard, Posey and Levy make these folks so unaffectedly funny that you have to get a pillow to laugh into because you KNOW PEOPLE LIKE THIS! Just watching the Midnight at the Oasis audition of Willard and O'Hara (in their jogging suits) made me groan and laugh at the same time.I think one of my favorite scenes is when Corky goes to the Blaine city council and asks for more money for the show. It reminded me of my own small-town community (which is now much bigger) in which some of the most innocuous things in the world seem oh so important. And watching the eager audience file into the school auditorium reminded me so much of our little productions, right down to the popcorn stand in the lobby.As someone else has said, much of the humor here is subtle. It's not of the slapstick, Three Stooges variety. Which makes it that much more enjoyable.Guest wrote this gem with Levy, who is one of the most underappreciated comic writers of the decade. I hope they do more like Best and Guffman because I can't wait to see what they come up with. Best is probably better because Guest let the actors ad lib a lot of the dialogue and let them do their thing with hilarious results. Guest does rely heavily on the same people but hey, why mess with a good thing?  "},{"Title":"Watch it again...","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ***spoilers!***Most of the jokes I didn't really get until *right* ater they happened. Like when they eat at the Chinese restaurant with the enormous neon sign that says Chop Suey and Ron asks the Pearls, How did you find this place?  Or after Corky's departure, Sheila is crying and Ron says sincerely, She hasn't cried like that since our wedding night. (remember his surgery?)Anyways, a lot of the humor is subtle, and you need to watch it more than once, I think. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is a Hoot","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is rare to find a movie that makes me laugh out loud over and over again. Theater fans (and fans of amateur dramatics) will love Waiting for Guffman. This is the story of the locals in Blaine, Missouri putting together and performing in a stage play for their town's 150th anniversary.  There's more of a plot and a bit of a message here, but that's not the point.  Just enjoy it.  The entire cast does a wonderful job.  Acting as real people rather than just as caricatures is a tough job, especially when you're trying to be funny at the same time.  But these actors and their characters seem perfectly matched.  The script is very funny--reflecting on the humor and eccentricities of everyday life.  Chistopher Guest and Eugene Levy (who are also performers in the movie) co-wrote.  Director Guest and the actors seemed to employ a lot of improvisation as well, and it worked nicely.  My favorite moments in the film include Parkey Posey (as Libby Mae Brown) talking about her routine life at the DQ a.k.a. the Dairy Queen.  Her monologues are so true to life, I hurt myself laughing.  Maureen O'Hara and Fred Willard (as Sheila and Ron Albertson) auditioning for the play and later having dinner with Eugene Levy's character and his wife (Dr. and Mrs. Pearl) are hilarious.  I also loved Christopher Guest's many scenes (as Corky St. Claire) especially one when he is having a public (and quiet) disagreement with the music director of the show (played by Bob Balaban.) There are many more very funny scenes.  Buy the video and watch it anytime you're feeling down--it's a hoot. "},{"Title":"starts slow, finishes very strong","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I will have to watch this one again, having been inspired by Guest's most recent (and superior, in my opinion) film, Best in Show.  The two films are similar in their documentary-style filming and their great ability to showcase many interesting characters quickly.  This film is well acted and very clever, about a small town that's putting on a play and they are anxiously awaiting the arrival of a supposedly famous director, Guest, to take charge.However, the first part of the film wore on too long and was a bit slow for my taste, although I am such a big fan of Guest's.  This was more than compensated for with the big finish the play itself.  The very concept of a flaming gay man standing in for the hunky, macho lead in the show had me falling over with laughter.  I will never forget Guest's line delivered so effeminately, Everybody dance!  No doubt those of you who have seen it will remember it as well. "},{"Title":"subtle humor at it's best","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I knew that after laughing out loud only ten seconds into this film that it was going to be non-stop funny. From the beginning scene where parade organizers seriously discussed strategic positions for rifles in dealing with egg throwers, I was hooked. This mockumentary about denizens of Blaine, MO captures the isolated self-deception of small town (or any sized town)life perfectly. Subtle humor throughout, it is a film that requires multiple viewings to catch every possible ribbing.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as Spinal Tap, but still funny.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest returns to the mockumentary world with this pretty funny movie about a play commemorating the 150th birthday of Blaine, Missouri. Guest does a hilariously over the top gay director and is supported nicely by Eugene Levy, Parker Posey, Catherine O'Hare, and Fred Willard.  Willard and O'Hare are exceptionally funny as a husband and wife team convinced they have what it takes to make it in show business.  If you liked Spinal Tap and Drop Dead Gorgeous, you should check this one out.   "},{"Title":"Worth waiting for the credits","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Others' comments give WFG the praise it deserves, and much like in This is Spinal Tap, Christopher Guest gives us some of the best material under the rolling credits.  The collection of My Dinner with Andre Action Figures slayed me.   "}{"Title":"For the of all things wholly. please release the DVD!","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am working on my 3rd copy of this movie. The first 2 have been worn out or lent out, never to be returned. This movie is ridiculously funny. Christopher Guest may quite possibly be the funniest man on the planet. Eugene Levy (Jim's dad in American Pie) can't be far behind. Do yourself a favor watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"This is Funny","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie twice now.  The first time,  I didn't really get it so I didn't like it too much.  The second time though, I knew what I was watching, which was a fake documentary of a play in a small town.  I should have known better having seen This is Spinal Tap but I didn't put the two together.  I'd like to compare this movie to Rushmore, not because they both have plays in them, but in the way everyone in the film is so serious while doing and saying the stupidest things.  It really is funny after you get drawn into it. "},{"Title":"Small Town Theatre Captured on film!","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who has EVER been involved in community theatre can relate to this movie.  It may not be the best filmed, most interesting, or even eye-catching movie of all time; however, it may be the most relate-able for anyone who has experienced the showbiz feeling captured only by a small town theater.  The buzz of people who believe they have talent, the directors who believe they have cast the talent, and the directors who, well... who can be identified through personalities alone.If you've ever been involved in a community play, then you HAVE to watch this movie.  And the next time you are in a play, you will be able to peg every single character from the film in your production!  It is hysterical... Try it!  A cult theatre classic. "},{"Title":"What a hoot!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The perfect video rental, this is a send up of a small town production of a play about their town.  This film lampoons the way people can get carried away with self importance.It's a fake documentary, so convincing that the first time I saw it I missed a lot of the jokes because I kept wanting to believe it, even though I knew it was a put on.  This is the perfect movie to see twice, because there is so much to laugh at you'll miss some of it the first time around. "},{"Title":"For the (bad) actor in all of us...","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having been in plays that sucked, and having sucked inplays that suck, I could relate to this film on an all too real level.  I especially loved the audition scene (I  would like to do a scene from Raging Bull.).There's a lot of funny stuff in this movie, but at thesame time, you feel sorry for just about EVERYBODY.  Thescene that best shows this tragic comedy is when ParkerPosey's (who is my future fake bride) character is cooking ONE chicken wing on a barbecue grill talking about the  play and going back to the DQ.Each character is funny and sad in their own way.  I justwonder how their play would have done on Broadway... maybe there will be a sequel.          "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever Made","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie that is as funny as This is Spinal Tap the first you watch it, and gets exponentially funnier each time you see it.  Paker Posey, Christopher Guest and Catherine O'Hara are standouts.  Many people on the IMDB declare a movie The Best Something, but I truly mean that Waiting for Guffman is the Funniest Movie Ever Made.  Watch it 3 or 4 times and you will agree.   "},{"Title":"An actor comments...","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've just rented WAITING FOR GUFFMAN for the second time.  Hysterical!  An actor myself, and having been in everything from high school to community and professional stage productions and film, I have to say that this movie hits more nails on the head than any other about the nature of acting the passion for it of the untalented, the determination, and the misguided attempts.  You gotta admit, the characters of Blaine MO sure love what they do, and find happiness in it, but that's part of the irony because they're SO clueless!  To wit (and probably my favorite line in the whole movie) Shiela Albertson (the GREAT Catherine O'Hara) praises her husband Ron's acting coaching, saying that he's tried to help me to change my instincts or at least to ignore them.  Any actor (Meisnerian, anyway) will tell you that this is completely backward from what you should do.The performances are all great  We've heard lots of kudos for the large roles, but even the small roles are portrayed brilliantly  Bob Balban as the Music Director, Michael Hitchcock as Councilman Steve Stark, etc.  If this were a REAL documentary, Errol Morris would have directed it! "},{"Title":"Its funny because it's true - Homer Simpson","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waiting for Guffman is a thoroughly charming film.  It is one of those rare works that seems far too short, I could watch hours of this material without it becoming stale.  As many other reviewers have noted, the one-liners fly thick and fast - and I'll tell you why I can't put up with you people.. because you're bastard people, that's what you are, you're just bastard people and I'm gonna go home and I'm gonna bite my pillow is what I'm gonna do!  The risk in any parody of acting is of course that the characters are overplayed, that is their acting becomes too hammy.  This in not the case with Guffman.While the whole cast gives strong performances, Christopher Guest shines as the camp and neurotic New York drop-out Corky St Clair. Corky (who was propelled to fame in the off-off-off-Braodway hit Backdraft - The Musical) is the thespian messiah who creates the masterwork musical, recalling the event packed history of the Stool Capital of America, Blain.The laughter from this film is heavily punctuated by cringing.  I think this film is as good as it is, not only because of its parody of small towns world-wide, but also because it plays on the audience's own fears and insecurities.  Anyone with an interest in movies, who is not an actor, has entertained the idea of acting themselves. The reoccurring, and often paralysing, fear is that you may be bad.really bad. Thought of trying out for your local community theatre, but were concerned about how it would turn out? This film will confirm for you that you should stay home.If this film has a weakness it's the performance of Catherine O'Hara as Sheila Albertson.  I found her the least credible of all the characters, this is just a matter of degree, and she certainly doesn't detract from want is a very well crafted comedy.  "},{"Title":"A hysterical movie","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The NY Times actually dubbed this film as, cruel. It is yet another accurate satire from the creators of, This Is Spinal Tap. For anyone that has the ability to laugh at small town mentality.   "},{"Title":"Want to see more...","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw GUFFMAN, I was with a bunch of friends who kept rewinding certain portions of the tape to take in the hilarious lines (e.g. ...and I hate your a** face!, etc.).  I had to finally purchase my own tape and when I saw it through the first time by myself, I was surprised that it was so short (we rewound it enough times to add about a half an hour to the viewing).  When I heard that Guest had to cut out a majority of the footage (he had about 30 (?) hours of usable footage, 6 of which he had considered for the final cut), it made me wish that there could have been a director's cut of this film.  Perhaps sometime in the future, we will look back at this film, which, if God-willing, will be considered a comedy classic, in which case they will have a good reason to give us more of the Waiting.  "}{"Title":"If you aren't laffing out loud...check your pulse, you might in a coma!!","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was without a doubt one of the best movies I had seen when I saw it at the theatre...and I continue to laugh everytime I rent it. Anyone like myself who has done community theatre will appreciate some of the humour even more than others...but it is not necessary. Every performer fills their role so completely you can never imagine anyone else playing their role. This movie is not for all tastes...It is a mock-documentary style which annoyed some of my friends (but I still let them be my friends...kidding) and there is little action or big special effects...there is A UFO and a musical number for those who demand such things...but better yet...sit back, relax and enjoying meeting the characters as that is what this film is all about. "},{"Title":"Community Theater in the Heartland.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you have ever been involved in community theater you have to see this movie. From the lack of talent to the pretentiousness of the characters it showcases everything that can be wrong in community theater. Everything you enjoyed about Second City T.V is here. All the performers in this movie deliver wicked performances parodying community theater with straight faces and sincerity. Make sure to have an empty bladder when you watch this or you may have an accident.  "},{"Title":"mean-spirited?","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some people think this movie is mean-spirited, but I disagree...I too think it's a hilarious film and more than a little pathetic. Christopher Guest has a way of painting a richly comedic but very extremist picture of losers with delusions of grandeur.  Luckily these people are to be taken as good-hearted comic anomalies -  you like them AND you laugh at them (i.e. Parker Posey's grammatically-challenged Dairy Queen employee), which lets you off the hook a little.This is a very funny film.  Ignore the naysayers who claim he's poking fun at Midwestern suburbanites and listen to the critics (most or all of whom loved it). "},{"Title":"The funniest film of '96!","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waiting for Guffman is a gem of a comedy that shouldn't be missed. Utilizing the comic talents of Christopher Guest, Eugene Levy, Fred Willard and Catherine O'Hara to name just a few, the film perfectly satirizes small-town talent and is also just plain hilarious. Shot in mockumentary style, and with similar sense of humor, this film will appeal to fans of Guest's other comic masterpiece, This is Spinal Tap. Both are highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...and I say this without exaggeration.  Like classics such as *Bringing Up Baby,* *This is Spinal Tap,* and *The Naked Gun,* you get more out of this film each time you watch it.  Watch it a second time and you catch little background scenes that are as hysterical as the out-and-out incompetence of the smalltown celebrities.  Christopher Guest does a fantastic job of giving us characters who are funny not because of their zany antics but because they are so familiar and likeable.  I don't think I've ever laughed harder in my life than during the Nothing Ever Happens on Mars song number. "},{"Title":"Over-hyped, but Not Horrible","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a fairly enjoyable film, but honestly I don't think it's deserving of all the praise it gets. If I could sum it up in one word, it would be 'mild.' The story is mildly interesting, and it follows a group of small-town folks who are mildly quirky, putting on a play that is pretty bad, but only mildly funny.Part of the problem, I think, is that it's somewhat one-joke-- the characters are stupid, and they're putting on a bad play. Beyond that, there's not much to laugh at. There are a few moments of comedy, but most of it is just repeating the same ideas which aren't original or funny in the first place-- Fred Willard's character is self-obsessed and obnoxious, Catherine O'Hara is blindly supportive of him, Corky St. Clair is flamboyantly gay, etc. It seems clich'd to compare this (or any improvisational comedy) to Spinal Tap, but the key difference between them is that in Spinal Tap, the characters say funny things. In this, the fact that the characters are stupid/vain/whatever is supposed to be the joke. And it gets old very quickly.Watching the film, it seems like the play is going to be a hilarious climax, but it's not nearly as bad as it could be. The songs themselves are pretty funny, because they're so cheesy and typical of amateur musical theater, but being subjected to 15+ minutes of the same joke -- these characters are bad actors and the lyrics are cheesy -- is tiresome.Also, I'm guessing the ending is supposed to be surprising, but it's telegraphed pretty clearly, and you can see it coming a mile away. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is downright hilarious!After being disappointed by movies touted as classics-- i.e. Wedding Crashers, American Pie-- Guffman is really funny at almost every scene. Christopher Guest is so great. He has the gay director down so well.I have loved Fred Willard from Fernwood Tonight with Martin Mull. This may be his best role ever. The true star is Eugene Levy (who is very funny in the American Pie movies). How can he keep a straight face? I miss SCTV so much and given the debacle that Saturday Night Live has become this film reminds me of how funny movies can be with great writing (even though it was ad libbed throughout) and comedic timing. I fell off of the sofa laughing out loud several times. My old roommate Joe was right, this is a classic. "},{"Title":"great comments","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  just a short remark to say that some of these other user comments are as hilarious as the movie itself. In this year and age some people still dont get the joke, funny, eh?? I just watched Best in Show and its up there with Guffman and Lick My Love pump. "},{"Title":"Well I'm just off to bite my pillow","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this film, and not just because I think Christopher Guest is one of the funniest and most talented human beings alive. The dialogue is fresh and so funny. So funny in fact that my partner and I continue to quote it to one another months after watching this film. You're all bas****d people, and I hate your a*s faces, I'm just going to go and bite my pillow . ( Roughly re-written here ). Watch it and smile. "},{"Title":"They went to Peking, where they make the ducks. <Levy, Chinese restaurant>","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERS - These cult films are a curious phenomenon. Almost 29% of the voters give Waiting For Guffman a 10 rating. I don't doubt that they think it is a 10, but for those of us not mesmerized by Chris Guest and Eugene Levy, and their zany scripts and improvisations, it probably rates somewhere around 6 or 7. It is cute, it is well-done, it is funny in spots, but pales badly in direct comparison to the really fine films of recent years. I had seen this ensemble cast and writers/directors in Best In Show, and read all the reviews that compared it to This Is Spinal Tap and Waiting For Guffman. They also share the commonality of an improvised, amateur-looking film, almost like the new wave of making of extras on good DVDs. Like all their others, Guffman is just a silly fluff of entertainment.Blaine, Mo., The stool capital of the world, is celebrating its 150th anniversary. Temperamental, effeminate Corky (Chris Guest) aspires to Broadway and wrote a show, Red, White, and Blaine, and uses townspeople to present the musical.  Character development is done by a series of into-the-camera interviews with each. There is a series of amusing auditions, followed by some equally amusing rehearsals. They find out a NY producer is sending his man Mort Guffman to view the show, but he is not there as it starts. During the production, a stranger comes up and sits in Guffman's reserved seat. After, backstage, all are disappointed to find this is not Guffman, who was stranded in NYC because of a snowstorm. Later, they all leave Blaine, Corky ends up in NYC, others to Miami or LA in entertainment, and Parker Posey's character to a different DQ in Alabama. Guffman, as all their others, has what I will refer to as an anti-Mamet feel. David Mamet writes very specific, very snappy dialog. Rarely will one of his characters pause, stutter, or look undecided. The Guest/Levy films all have very hesitant, choppy, many times nonsensical dialog.  I like the Mamet style much more than the Guest/Levy style.  "}{"Title":"Funny & Insightful","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie just entertains the hell out of me. Chris Guest does brilliant work as an actor, the director and one of the writers - even though most of the film is improvised. Terrific character work by the legendary SCTV diva, Catherine O'Hara with Fred Williard delivering  his usual steady, solid support. Parker Posey blossoms in this movie - with real pathos and hope (her character has a real sadness). But the movie also lampoons midwestern small towns, talent shows, local theatre, close-mindedness, local politics and show business. Yes, it's silly, but at times it is also brilliant satire. Wonderful American comedy. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies in years.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With the same brilliance he brought to THIS IS SPINAL TAP, Christopher Guest sends up community theatre and small-town sensibilities so incisively that other let's put on a show comedies (such as Noises Off) seem pale and two-dimensional by comparison. The improvisations of the ensemble cast are beautifully timed and insightful; you've met people like this before, but you've never been given permission to laugh at them. This movie has delighted nearly every person to whom I've ever shown it, and it holds a most cherished position in my film library. "},{"Title":"Corky!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved, loved, loved this movie.  I come from a very small town in Oklahoma in which I was a part of a Centennial Celebration that would have made Corky St. Clair proud.  Sad but true.  Blaine has their step stools and we had the oil boom.  An actual line from our play It's so hot the fish are fryin' in the lake.  Ahhh...pure genius. Anyway...this movie is very funny and I've recommended it to many friends who have agreed. Long-live small town theater!  "},{"Title":"Fresh off a destroyer with nothing but a dance belt and a tube of chapstick","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie made me want to bite my pillow to keep from laughing to death! Christopher Guest and Company did a booming job of reflecting the aspirations of an American town with high hopes and silly ideas.  It might have been a malicious attack on the values of those depicted, but instead we end up caring about these people and hoping against hope that they succeed in their individual quests.  God bless the Corky St. Clairs of this world and the gumption they possess that drives them to dream of greater things even though those things are completely out of reach.  Hysterical, yet lovingly made.   "},{"Title":"How do I love this film, let me count the ways...","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is pure genius.  To all the people that it offended LIGHTEN UP! I'm from the midwest and I thought it was hilarious!  There are so many little details that make it the great movie that it is.  Like when Ron and Sheila are done with their audition and Ron asks very eagerly if he should strike the stool, eager to show off the fact that he knows the theater lingo and that he's done shows with Corky many a time.  I laughed so hard at that part because I do a lot of theater,and people will leap at the chance to show off their knowledge of technical terms.  I love how Sheila describes her and Ron's acting sessions with each other in which she is told to ignore her instincts (which is BAD), and how Ron gives her extensive notes to help her with her acting. Perhaps the most overlooked and hilariously stupid moments in the movie is when the crop circle expert is talking about the aliens coming to Blaine because of some reason, and that there are 5 letters in the word Blaine. Ha ha ha, there are are 6.  I laughed very hard at that part.  I think this movie is enduring to me also because I grew up in Blaine, MN.  Blaine, MN and Blaine, MO are not so different.  The local simpletons, the stupid celebrations, the bad community theater, the city council who think they are extremely important.  Though some may think the characters are far-fetched, they are not.  People like this actually exist! If you don't believe me, find your nearest small town, audition for one of their little theater troups, and laugh at all the silly similarities you find.  You may be surprised at how many there are. My point  Waiting for Guffman is freakin' awesome! "},{"Title":"Comic Classic--Incredibly Funny!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a film that everyone who has an off-beat sense of humor, who appreciates belly splitting laughter HAS to go see.  Christopher Guest is marvelous as the overtly gay, Corky St. Clair, the artiste from NYC who is going to put Blaine, Missouri on the map by producing the town's sesquicentennial play honoring the town's founder, Blaine Fabin. The play is called, Red, White, and Blaine.  Blaine Fabin set out in a covered wagon for California.  Thinking he smelled the salt air, Blaine stopped the party in Missouri.  Although there wa no Pacific Ocean, they all liked where they were so well, they decided to stay.Some of the unforgettable characters areParker Posey who works at the local Dairy Queen. The travel agent couple who have never been out of Blaine. The dentist, Alan Pearle, who thinks he may have wasted his life before becoming part of the play. The frustrated high school choir director, who must defer to Corky in directing the play.The Blaine citizen who insists he was kidnapped by aliens one Sunday, was taken aboard the space ship, probed, and now has no feelings in his buttocks. The pharmacist who thinks Corky is next to God. Blaine Fabin's ancestor, Gwen Fabin, who knows how it feels to be a Kennedy.Go see this film. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, rip-roaring fun","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. There are so many subtle comedic moments, it takes numerous viewings to pick up on them all. If you've ever been involved in community theater, you will find this movie extremely funny and true to life. "},{"Title":"not Best in Show, nor even Drop Dead Gorgeous","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love these Guest/Levy put-ons, and Willard is always great. So is O'hara in this. But come on, this is not in the same league as their others. It isn't even nearly as good as Drop Dead Gorgeous. I know that is by a different troupe, but it is a great comparable. The part leading up to the show is good. The show is interminable. It kills the movie. After the show ends, things get better again, but that huge dead-spot in the middle makes it impossible to give this more than a five. Once again, the people who give these mediocre movies a 10 seem to be missing an oar. Take this comment the character of Corky ... at first glance he can seem like an annoying gay stereotype. But good ol' Christopher Guest has a trick up his sleeve...listen VERY carefully and you'll hear him mention his wife (just once in the whole movie). I don't actually think for a minute Corky is homosexual, he just acts exceedingly camp. ... We should realise that Christopher Guest is one step ahead of us! Hello!?!? Guest is two steps ahead of this guy I'd say. Corky CLAIMS to have a wife. Somebody else in the flick, maybe it is Mrs. Pearl, says nobody has ever seen her. Hello!? That is the joke. Get it now? "},{"Title":"An altogether outstanding show!","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is absolutely amazing! I had never heard of it before I saw it, but thankfully I watched it anyway. It is so cleverly done and acted so well. Everyone has the funniest idiosyncrasies that you will never stop talking about. I was even rolling on the ground in tears during the deleted scenes. I hope that everyone (especially theater people) will give this great movie a chance no matter what anyone else says. It is beautifully done and will be a classic with me and my friends forever. Also be sure to check out all of Christopher Guest's mockumentary films like, Best in Show, A Mighty Wind, and This is Spinal Tap, they all hit close to home with what they are mocking and do it in the funniest way possible. "},{"Title":"so off Broadway its in","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rarely have I laughed so hard at a movie.  It was good to see so many of the second city crowd again.. Christopher Guest is a master of understated humor. Several scenes were so funny I almost wet myself- the scene in the restaurant talking about a penis reduction and the play and the thought that travel agents never travel and don't see that as unbeneficial for their clients... oh, well-   Most of all, the artifacts in the store at the end are a hoot- A my dinner with Andre Action Set- is the epitome of effete humor. This movie is wonderful for the snits the music director has and for the ambitions of these amateur actors.  Rent it today! "}{"Title":"This is Spinal Tap doesn't quite work as a Prairie Home Companion","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Corky St. Clair (Christopher Guest) has been living in Blaine, Missouri after a less than successful career in theater in New York City. In Blaine, he's received much more recognition and opportunity than ever before, even if one of the primary reasons was for burning down a local theater during an over-ambitious stage production of Backdraft (1991). Waiting for Guffman is set during Blaine's sesquicentennial (150th Anniversary), and is the story of St. Clair conceiving, casting, producing and finally co-starring in a play that tells the story of Blaine.This is mockumentary (which means it's presented as if it were a documentary, but it's really just a satire of one) co-written, co-scored and directed by Guest, in the vein of his later work (the most recent as of this writing), A Mighty Wind (2003). While both films are likable enough, they both end up suffering from many of the same problems.Guest first rose to prominence as a writer and star of This Is Spinal Tap (1984), a hilarious mockumentary film directed by Rob Reiner. Most of Guest's work since Spinal Tap has been in the same vein. Unfortunately, none of it has been quite as funny.I'm not sure that Guest is trying to be as funny, though. Both Waiting for Guffman and A Mighty Wind often are far more serious than one might expect. It seems that Guest has a deep affection for small town life (and folk music in A Mighty Wind). He has one foot firmly in Garrison Keillor (of Prairie Home Companion/Lake Wobegon Days fame) territory. But material in that vein doesn't work nearly as well here as it does for Keillor.Keillor is crafting finely honed, mildly satirical, slightly quirky but ultimately heartwarming stories loaded with a deep sense of nostalgia for small town, family-oriented life. Guest is giving his actors a rough guide of the plot and letting them improvise for the camera. You can't improvise a Keillor-quality tale (not even Keillor could do it). So the final result is that occasionally the cast improvises something funny, but more often they are just working out their characters as they invent somewhat mundane facts and feelings about themselves. The funniest bits feature Guest's scripted material (facts about the history of the town, for example) or feature Guest himself on camera. It seems that there really was just something magical about Guest, Michael McKean and Harry Shearer (who co-wrote the music here) improvising together and being directed by Reiner in This is Spinal Tap.It's not that the rest of the cast isn't good. I'm a fan of Eugene Levy (Guest's co-writer on the film), Catherine O'Hara, Fred Willard and other cast members. But they come across as far campier than Guest, and they're often in search of a punch line (as is Guest himself far too often during his improvised segments). I love camp, but I'm not sure it works when there isn't a fuller commitment to it, and it especially doesn't work when there's the attempt to venture into Keillor territory at the same time. The only other actor who really matches Guest in tone is Bob Balaban as the music teacher, but apparently Guest directed him to mostly look bewildered and slightly annoyed. He doesn't have many verbal punch lines, either.As it was in This is Spinal Tap and A Mighty Wind, the music in Waiting for Guffman is good. Guest, McKean and Shearer are obviously very talented musicians and songwriters in real life. But like in A Mighty Wind, the lyrics here are far less overtly spoof-oriented--there's nothing lyrically equivalent to Spinal Tap's Big Bottom. The result is that Waiting for Guffman could almost serve as a sample score for the trio to shop in order to acquire gigs scoring serious Broadway shows.Another factor that might turn some viewers off is that Guest seems to have struck upon a formula for his mockumentaries. We start with historical material about the performers and their cultural context, we see them developing their product, first tentatively, but later with more conviction and we see them attain an amount of public recognition and personal success. But somewhere along the way, personal problems begin creeping in and interfering with the success of the projects depicted in the film. People leave. People become disillusioned with at least some members of an organization. The success ends up being a bit hollow, and the cast disperses in the end, while we get a wrap-up showing where are they now, with many being back in the position they were in at the beginning of the film or worse. While the formula is enjoyable enough, and it certainly worked well for This is Spinal Tap, after the nth instantiation it becomes more difficult to have the same comic effect with it.Still, this probably sounds much more negative than it should. I did enjoy watching Waiting for Guffman overall. There were quite a few funny elements, and Guest does achieve a bit of the small town charm he's aiming for, including the faux theatrical performance. I just kept wishing that it could be even funnier, more outrageous, more unpredictable. "},{"Title":"Show business comedy at its best.","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting for Guffman If you have ever worked in the theater or the show biz world in any aspect, you will especially enjoy this film. A small town school in the mid west decides to put on a musical, which brings out many humorous characters in the town. The artistic director is classic...as having been some big shot (not really) in NYC....he is trying to teach this community about professionalism in the industry. The audition scene is a scream and you will find yourself laughing out loud. When the final cast has been selected it couldn't be more of a motley crue.....and then the rehearsals start. You can watch this over and over and find yourself repeating the lines as they say them......a definite good time movie. The big show at the end is even crazier than the rest and they hope of someday bringing it to Broadway....hence waiting for Guffman...a big NY director to see their play. The character work is wonderful, truthful, and very appropriate. My vote for this classic is 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite comedy!!","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting for Guffman If you have ever worked in the theater or the show biz world in any aspect, you will especially enjoy this film. A small town school in the mid west decides to put on a musical, which brings out many humorous characters in the town. The artistic director is classic...as having been some big shot (not really) in NYC....he is trying to teach this community about professionalism in the industry. The audition scene is a scream and you will find yourself laughing out loud. When the final cast has been selected it couldn't be more of a motley crue.....and then the rehearsals start. You can watch this over and over and find yourself repeating the lines as they say them......a definite good time movie. The big show at the end is even crazier than the rest and they hope of someday bringing it to Broadway....hence waiting for Guffman...a big NY director to see their play. The character work is wonderful, truthful, and very appropriate. My vote for this classic is 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"funny mockumentary","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting For Guffman is director/writer/actor Christopher Guest's very funny mockumentary about a pageant put on by small town Blaine, Missouri to celebrate its centennial. Writers Guest and Eugene Levy make believable silly characters of the townsfolk and that helps to make the movie work. Guest plays Corky St. Clair the town's resident stage director who is enlisted to mastermind the pageant. From auditions by the towns residents he selects travel agents Ron and Sheila Albertson (Fred Willard and Catherine O'Hara), dentist Dr. Allan Pearl (Eugene Levy), and Dairy Queen waitress Libby Mae Brown (Parker Posey) as the cast for the play and begins to rehearse them. Eugene Levy and Fred Willard have never been funnier and Parker Posey is adorable. Christopher Guest makes Corky St. Clair a likable and totally believable character. The musical numbers are clever and very funny. Guest has directed and acted in other mockumentarys (Spinal Tap, Best in Show, A Mighty Wind) but Waiting for Guffman is one of the best. "},{"Title":"Everybody Dance...","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Never has small town theater been so hysterical. Christopher Guest's mockumentary Waiting for Guffman is one of the funniest movies ever created. It's smart humor and devoted cast all give this picture what it needs to work. In the small town of Blaine Missouri, Corky St. Clair (Christopher Guest) is determined to get his play about the town's history off the ground. Using all the limited talent he has in the community, Corky puts on his production.The towns dentist Dr. Allen Pearl (Eugene Levy), travel agents Rob and Sheila Albertson (Fred Willard and Catherine O'Hara), and Libby Mae Brown (Parker Posey), the local Dairy Queen employee, all team up to give Blaine it's tribute to a history OTC UFO's and making what put Blaine on the map, stools. While getting the show ready, they are informed of an important Broadway critic is going to come and review the show to see if it has any potential what so ever. This makes the cast excited, anxious, and just ready to give Blaine and the critic Mr. Guffman one hell of a performance. The dialogue between these characters is priceless. They unleash what could be some of the funniest scenes of cinema history such as when Corky tries to put modern dance into the play. What Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy have written is solid 24k gold. Guest's other mockumentaries are extremely well written as well, each with their own individual qualities. What Waiting for Guffman brings is comedy in it's roots...the stage. "},{"Title":"Inspired lunacy, but lacking in payoff","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting For Guffman is like so much great improv comedy - it has flashes of brilliance, but can never find the structure it needs to ever really end.In its opening two acts, the mostly freeform nature of the plot works well, allowing the actors to riff almost endlessly on their characters, and it's amusing for a surprisingly long time. But the joy is in the little traits of the characters, particularly the hilariously absurd interview scenes, and once they're all on screen together the momentum disappears. Having to follow a plot is clearly irritating for these gifted comedians, and the third-act surprise so obviously intended as the grand climax of the movie is tossed aside like so much used Kleenex. The film seems to just trail off in its final 30 minutes, straddling some invisible line between comedy and (strangely enough) poignancy, and the audience finds itself simply wanting the movie to end. Which it does, abruptly and unsatisfactorily. Morosely we shuffle out, disappointed.Still, the sheer joy of the first two acts is well worth the price of admission or rental, and there are far worse ways one could spend two hours. Recommended for anyone who's lived in a small town or is willing to laugh at absurdity. (Which usually go together.) "},{"Title":"Guest & Levy's comedic brilliance","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The style and story that makes up the comedies from such interesting and entertaining films such as A Mighty Wind, Dog Show, and Waiting for Guffman are the brilliance of Guest and Levy. For most of this movie, the script was pure improv. Much of the story was scripted but the overall dialogue from the cast was made up on the spot. That alone makes Waiting for Guffman a comedy treat. The simple direction by Guest makes his movies character and story driven. The comedy comes from the original characters that are showcased in his movies. The audience finds itself laughing at the people or what the people say and do. There is no written punch line, instead, the characters end up making the audience laugh by being themselves. Even when it's not funny, it somehow becomes comedy. Be on the look out for an OK soda machine in the school's theater. A blast from the past which was 1996, OK SODA came and went like the light brown M & M.   "},{"Title":"Peculiar American humour, which we found awful.","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film will not suit everyone's sense of humour. My wife and I found it painfully moronic. I cannot help but wonder if the positive comments here are from the cast and crew of the film? Seriously, I was expecting more than forced corny jokes. As a comment below states, the film is like an amateur theatrical play or high school drama production in which the audience claps just because they are too embarassed to admit their boredom and aversion.OK, surely some people in the States will connect with the humour. But for us it was one of the worst films we have viewed. If you rent this be sure to get another one as a back up. "},{"Title":"Peculiar American humour, which we found awful.","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film will not suit everyone's sense of humour. My wife and I found it painfully moronic. I cannot help but wonder if the positive comments here are from the cast and crew of the film? Seriously, I was expecting more than forced corny jokes. As a comment below states, the film is like an amateur theatrical play or high school drama production in which the audience claps just because they are too embarassed to admit their boredom and aversion.OK, surely some people in the States will connect with the humour. But for us it was one of the worst films we have viewed. If you rent this be sure to get another one as a back up. "},{"Title":"Remember how much we got egged last year?","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So begins the greatest movie of all time. Never before and never again will you see such comic genius at work. The Super Seven lineup (Christopher Guest, Eugene Levy, Fred Willard, Catherine O'Hara, Parker Posey, Bob Balaban, and Michale Hitchcock) improvised this movie without the slightest hitch. I would like a scientific investigation into how it is possible for the human brain to create lines this funny. Everything is perfectly timed and just when your trying to recover from one of Hitchcock's hero worship comments, your hit hard again by Levy's lazy eye. IT IS PERFECT!!! "}{"Title":"Low Key Humor To The Maximum","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The fact that this movie was made pleases me to no end.  This movie is definitely not for everyone.  Many viewers have a hard time realizing that it is in fact a comedy; but its chalk full of great low key humor.The characters are outlandish, eccentric and quirky and all played quite phenomenally.  The writing is spot on and it's just terrific.I would recommend this movie to people who have a sense of humor not related to phallic flatulence jokes and to people who appreciate subtlety and performances by real comic genius.I would not recommend this movie to people with an IQ less than 110, people who's humor is limited to phallic flatulence and people who don't know the meaning of those words.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of all time!","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waiting for Guffman, a film directed by This is Spinal Tap co-writer and lead guitarist Christopher Guest and co-written by Guest and SCTV alumni Eugene Levy (who also have hilarous lead roles) is a comedy in the best sense of the word. Although I think This is Spinal Tap is highly overrated, I think this film gets everything right. The humor is subtle, yet approachable at the same time. Christopher Guest plays Corky St. Clair, a supposedly heterosexual writer-director-actor of plays, although the believability of him having a wife named Bonnie is highly in question. Corky is from New York, but is now living in the small town of Blaine, Missouri, where they are having their 150'th anniversary. Corky is called on to put on a play to commerate the anniversary, and he recruits some of the eccentric citizens of the town to participate in the production. Some of those citizens include the local dentist, Dr. Allen Pearl (Eugene Levy), Ron and Sheila Albertson (Fred Willard and Catherine O'Hara), who are travel agents, but have never left Blaine, except for one time because of a medical condition, and Libby Mae Brown (Parker Posey), a girl that works at Diary Queen, who always seems to be sleepwalking.At first these actors seem very untalented, but throughout the film, we're very convinced that these people honestly try and have a passion for the theatre, and by the end, when we see the real production, the audience can definitely see an improvement. Done very realistically, documentary style (like Spinal Tap), Waiting for Guffman boasts a cast that also includes Guest regulars Bob Balaban, Michael Hitchcock, and Larry Miller. Guest is truly one of the better directors around today, and although he is not very well-known to the mainstream public, I think he is one of the biggest comedic geniuses working today (both in front of and behind the camera). Eugene Levy, seen in both good and bad movies, is also one of the funniest people in film, as is the improv talented Fred Willard, whose humor is by far the most subtle in the film. Catherine O'Hara and Parker Posey are also great, as always. If you liked Best in Show and A Mighty Wind, you'll surely like Waiting for Guffman, which I think is the best of the three. I can't say the same for This is Spinal Tap because I disliked that, but I love these three. Guest is by far a better director than Rob Reiner, whose biggest problem is he always ends up selling out in his films. Who knows how much better Spinal Tap could have been if Christopher Guest would have had directorial control.  "},{"Title":"Give me a break!","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Someone highly recommended this film to me. It was only a waste of money and time. The only thing that was funny, was the fact that they were such lousy actors and thought that they would qualify for Broadway. Otherwise, it was slow and none of the jokes were even close to humorous! I've seen worse, but would not recommend this to anybody. It's just plain DULL! "},{"Title":"Waiting for Guffman 8/10","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest's second mockumentary (and first he directed) is Waiting for Guffman, a very funny trip to Blaine, Missouri. It will most likely be compared more to Spinal Tap than Best in Show or A Mighty Wind because it was the first one. It has all most of Guest's posse including Michael Hitchcock, Fred Willard, Catherine O'Hara, Parker Posey, Eugene Levy, and Bob Balaban. However, Harry Shearer and Michael McKean are nowhere to be seen.Guest is Corky St. Clair. He's a stage director who is hired to produce Blaine's sesquicentennial musical, `Red, White, and Blaine'. Some of his previous works include `Backdraft The Musical'. The theater burned down. The townspeople try out for the musical. They're horrible. Some include Dr. Allan Pearl (Levy), one of the only Jewish people in town, Ron and Sheila Albertson (Willard and O'Hara), and Libby Mae Brown (Posey), who enjoys her job at the local Dairy Queen. They all have to learn their roles with the demanding Corky, and the whole thing is shot in documentary form.First things first if you don't like documentaries, you won't like this picture. Although it isn't true, the whole movie is very talky and doesn't have any action. If you enjoy quirky pictures that can be uneven but also funny, this is your type of movie. It has many funny moments, especially from Corky (`You people.are.bastard people!'). At times, I'm sure what the actors had to go through was embarrassing, especially when Willard and O'Hara were doing their duet. A way that that was put into perspective for me was when our school put on a performance of `Bye Bye Birdie', and the person who played Gloria Rasputin, a glitzy dancer who is not very good, commented how embarrassing it was to be bad.The photography was amateurish, especially in the beginning, but that gave it a more authentic feel to the documentary-type it is. However, if this is all supposed to be a documentary, then there are a few shots that don't seem right. The townspeople are knocking on Corky's door, and then we see Corky sitting in the bathtub. Also, right after scene was done in the musical; we follow the actors going backstage. If the camera was just in the audience, how can it get on stage?Much of the dialogue was obviously improvised, and it tells. Whenever someone just got a whiff, they went on to talk about whatever, and it's often very funny. Some of the deleted scenes on the DVD are just improv, especially from Fred Willard, who is just hilarious.Something that makes this different from other movies is that there is no background music, because this is supposed to be a documentary. It really put more of an authentic feel. Another point that I loved is the combination of a regular movie and an ensemble movie. Instead of having some well-developed characters or no characters to care about, Guest put in deep characters, that have back-stories that we actually care about, and it's amazing that he can put all of it in in 80 minutes. Waiting for Guffman is a very funny piece that isn't as much about the bad actors but the interesting story that goes on behind the scenes.My rating 8/10Rated R for brief strong language. "},{"Title":"Great!  Nice to see the beginnings of Guest","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movies is a lot of fun to watch.  I saw Best In Show first, and was curious about where the 'troop got it's start together.  Guffman did not dissappoint.  It was very funny and touching at the same time.  It might not be as laugh out loud funny as Show, or have as many quoteable lines, but you walk away from the movie caring about the characters a lot more, and they stick with you a lot longer.  Guffman is worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Not only one of the funniest comedy films ever made, but probably one of the best made Comedies according to the plot and basic idea.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is Christopher Guest's second best movie (out of 3). I didn't think this was as good or funny as Guest's follow-up film 'Best In Show' which hit theaters in the year 2000. I loved this movie for two reasons, 1) It was done by my favorite comedy troupe, and 2) I am in many productions in community theater, so I kind of related to this in a close way. First of all, not all community theaters do plays this bad, hardly any of them do. This is kind of an a stretch, but it is still funny. Some community theaters put on productions that rival Broadway productions (in my opinion). But this is just so funny, it will make you cry. I think this is just such an excellent film, and gets funnier everytime I watch it. The best things about Guest's films are, no matter how many times you watch them they don't get boring or less funny like most of the Farrely Brothers films. The thing I truly admire of Guest is he doensn't have to use too many raunchy jokes to make the best comedy films. The only reason this film got unfairly slapped with an 'R' rating is because it has the f-word twice. The film 'So I Married An Axe Murderer' starring Mike Myers, features that word three times, and got a 'PG-13' rating. This is a great film for anyone looking to be able to laugh hard, without seven million sex jokes.Grade A "},{"Title":"Easily the best film ever made","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The second after I had seen this movie for the first time, I knew that it was my favorite of all time.  It not only satires the mid-west way of life, something I do on a regular basis, but it also adds an improvised feel that makes you feel that you are experiencing it for the first time, rather than written dialogue which sometimes comes off rehearsed and static.  I didn't know that this film was entirely improvised until about my fifth viewing, and that just makes me appreciate it even more.  I recommend, if you haven't already, seeing the deleted scenes from this.  I cannot understand how they left these out of the movie.  Especially look for the song This Bulging River, it is hilarious!!!!  Anyone who doesn't like this movie obviously has had their sense of humor surgically removed because this movie is amazing.  And now, even after the 55th viewing, I still find myself noticing new things and laughing at the same jokes because you can never get tired of them.  10/10.    "},{"Title":"Waiting for Godot had more laughs","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Like David Mamet, Christopher Guest (born an English aristocrat) likes to highlight the petty egos, dreams and aspirations of small-town Americans to 'be somebody'. Unlike Mamet (in this film at least) he seems incapable of realising when to stop milking an idea that is only mildly funny at best. Waiting for Guffman is a ten-minute short that somehow became inflated into a cliched, irritating and even slightly patronising pseudo-documentary about non-actors getting it together to 'put on a show'. All the stock characters are here, the failed gay theatre-maven from the big smoke, the dreamy fast-food girl waiting to be discovered, the nerd, the ex all-American footballer with a dark secret. What Guest and Levy don't seem to appreciate is that they have fallen into exactly the same mind-set as their would-be Broadway cast. It's nowhere near as funny or relevant to those who aren't directly involved. The stage production itself is so interminably long and irritating it made me want to scream (I was watching in the presence of a good friend who was keen for me to see it) and on another level was even rather perverse - were we as an audience expected to derive pleasure from the failure and naive, energetic non-talent of others?  Overall I am happy to see that Guest et al have redeemed themselves with the clever Best In Show (which I saw first) Poking fun at amateur theatricals may seem like an easy target, but Waiting for Guffman is a flabby, self-satisfied and strained entertainment that might be considered 'subtle' by some, but anaemic and tiresomely padded by the majority. 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Predisposition, maybe?","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Those who like this horrid film will never understand those of us who wait for Waiting for Guffman to end.  Gads, what is so funny in this cast, dialogue and plot?  Characterization is so forced.  Christopher Guest sounds too much like Stuart Smalley, the Affirmation, 12-step guy on Saturday Night Live.  That's okay for a 10-minute sketch, but, c'mon, more than an hour of that stupid voice!  I turn off television commercials that depict people, including athletes, singing off-key.  No way shall I watch an entire film of this -- hence, I viewed only 15 l-o-n-g minutes of Guffman.  I cannot believe so many comments favor this unfunny film.  Are the writers born to like this type of comedy?   "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  They simply don't make films this funny very often. Spinal Tap and Best in Show come to mind. The key is assembling a cast this talented (Levy, Guest, Willard, etc) and then giving them the comedic freedom to do what comes natural, be funny. This movie might not appeal to high school students that are more easily amused by the American Pie series. However, if you like sophisticated and intelligent humor, this is it. The movie deals with a great celebration taking place in the city of Blaine, Missouri. Of course, Blaine is named after the pioneer that led a group of hearty souls from the east to California in the 1800's. Of course, Blaine believed that his group had arrived in California, not knowing he was actually in what is now Missouri. Well, with that kind of past and vision, you can only imagine what kind of celebration the offspring of those dim bulbs are capable of creating. Enter Corky St. Claire, a New York import and dramatic genius. This somewhat lispy town entertainment director has awed the rural folks with many productions in the past. The city council wants Corky to take his talent and a collection of talentless towns folk and create a play worthy enough to honor their moronic founder. He will! I have never laughed more at a movie. "}{"Title":"If you haven't seen it rent it today!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very funny.  Epecially since I was in theater(tech) so I know what it is like.  The characters are funny and Bill Murray's brother makes a funny camero appearence.  If you said you hated this movie then you should check your pulse to make sure if you are alive.  "},{"Title":"The master of improvisation","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest proves that there are still film makers who care about quality in comedy. No toilet humor, no four letter language, just brilliant acting and a touching story. The only drawback is that Guest still tries to recreate Spinal Tap after all these years. With the exception of 'Big Picture' Guest's work hasn't really evolved, but this doesn't mean that 'Waiting for Guffman' isn't absolutely brilliant.Beyond criticism. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Blaine is the stool capital of the world","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest is widely known as the lead guitarist for Spinal Tap.  With his 1996 effort, he had to somewhat out due himself by making Waiting for Guffman because it was in the same genre of it. In my opion, Waiting for Guffman is better then Spinal Tap. Blaine, Missouri is celebrating it's 150th anniversary and their first pick to put on a play about this fine town is none other then off-Broadway director/writer Corky St. Clair.  Corky accepts and begins casting.  He casts the ego-driven Ron and Shelia Albertson, the Dari Queen waitress Libby Mae Brown, and a dentist, Dr. Allen Pearl. All these people, including Corky, have no talent and they don't know it. They rehearse for weeks and then one day a letter arrives saying that Mort Guffman will attend their show.  What does this mean?  Well in Cokry's words&#133; `We might be going to Broadway!'  I wouldn't want to give away the rest. The ending is truly ingenious.Waiting For Guffman reminds me that good, clever, and thoughtful comedies are still being made.  The film satirizes regional theatre very well, from the terrible dance moves to the over acting.  Eugene Levy, Catherine O'Hara, Christopher Guest, and Fred Willard are at their comedic best in these rolls. There's lots of great one-liners and reading in between the lines humor.  The film was largely improvised, and if this kind of concept were giving to other actors, I don't think it would work as well.***** (Out of 5)   "},{"Title":"funny mockumentary","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  well worth a look, funny mockumentary.  its actually pretty accurate to what community theater can be like, overly-ambitious, pompus, resulting in sheer amateur absurdity.  very funny at times, perhaps a bit too long.  good performances, particularly fred willard, an underrated actor. "},{"Title":"From the Guy Who Brought You Spinal Tap - More Brilliance","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ah, what can I say about this flick, it's just one of my all time faves. My wife & I rent this whenever we're feeling down & soon we're cracking up together.Christopher Guest of Spinal Tap fame skewers small-town theater while at the same time somehow celebrating the spirit of community in these productions. There is a certain sadness in this movie that somehow makes the characters all the more memorable.If you don't like the mockumentary format (also used in Guest's Best in Show) then don't bother, but believe me the mostly-improvised dialogue & hilarious turns from SCTV alums Katherine O'Hara & Eugene Levy, not to mention great character actors Fred Willard & Parker Posey, is side-splitting. And the songs, you'll never get those songs out of your head -- Stools are cool, everyone wants a stool! "},{"Title":"It gets better each time you watch it","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the few instances in film history where a great script wasn't necessary to make a great film; all that was needed was a great premise and this extraordinary group of comedic actors.  It's an incredibly nuanced film, especially since it had no script.  Each time I view it (and I've seen it probably 20 times), I seem to catch a subtle look or inflection that I'd missed before, and I explode with laughter.  And Christopher Guest has created one of the all-time great comedic characters in Corky St. Clair.  "},{"Title":"Watch it twice!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hilarious!  Libby Mae Brown, the D.Q. girl, cracks me up like none other!  You must watch the movie at least twice to appreciate it! The first time you'll say, That's funny. and the second, third, etc. you'll be falling off the couch with tears streaming down your face because you are laughing so hard!  This is a definite must see.  My favorite quote from the movie is from Libby Mae's introduction... Cokes.  Just drive in and get a coke if you're thirsty.  hahahahaha "},{"Title":"Uplifting and subtly hilarious.","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    This is not your usual comic fare. It doesn't really poke fun at anything in particular, yet it manages to convey hilarity  through there's something you don't hear or see everyday type of humor. My God, why is it so bloody funny? Just thinking about it makes me chuckle. The strange dialogue and way of presenting it in this film is quite amusing. The film is also uplifting and sweet-hearted. I loved it! The final performance is going to leave you in stitches! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Absolute Hilarity for anyone who has ever performed in an amature theatre production.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Eugene Levey and Christopher Guest could and should make a career out of this type of comedy.  If you liked Best in Show than you will love Waiting for Guffman.  The cast that they gather for these movies are incredible. It takes a lot of talent to perform improv, and they all do it extremly well. The amazing thing is that you don't have to know a lot about the topics they choose to get the humour in the movie.  If you do know something it makes it ten times funnier.  My two biggest suggestions are to; watch the movie more than once, there is always something that you may miss the first time around because you are laughing too much.  Secondly, get it DVD.  There is an extra 30 minutes that didn't make it into the movie, how i don't know. "},{"Title":"Makes the Top 10 Funniest List","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I believe Christopher Guest is our funniest living comedic talent. I love everything I've ever heard or seen him in, which includes the cast of Saturday Night Live, as well as National Lampoon Radio Hour (Find That's Not Funny...That's Sick! on vinyl). I loved this film the first time I viewed it, and it remains new and funny each time I view it. I've probably seen it 35 times by now and can't wait for it's release on DVD, coming August 21st! Stellar cast, great story, charming community (Blaine). Another reason I love this film is that the majority of what you see is improvisational, a la This is Spinal Tap and Best In Show. Christopher Guest & Eugene Levy are amazing on their own, but together they've struck gold! I am disappointed that it's taken this long for it to see a DVD release and that Best In Show made it to DVD first, but regardless, the wait will be worth it! The mockumentary style has been perfected with these films. I have a rough cut of the film, which looks awful but has lots of extras not in the theatrical release. The DVD should have the same amount of extras as Best In Show, as well as audio commentary by Christopher and Eugene. I love this movie. If you don't like it I wonder what you could possibly find to be funny. This is among my Top 10 Funniest films of all time, which includes This is Spinal Tap, Best In Show, Blazing Saddles...ahh U get the idea. SEE THIS FILM if U have a sense of humor. If not, please don't.  ) "}{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the most refreshing films I have ever seen. A simple premise, gather great improv actors, give them a loose storyline, and then let them do what they do best, act funny. Any fans of SCTV and SNL (when it used to be funny) will appreciate this fine film. I was blown away, when I learned that the film had not even been scripted. The actors played it on comedic instinct. Of course, it helps when you have the talent that this film had. The story revolves around a small town in Missouri known as Blaine. Blaine is your typical one Wal Mart town. Blaine is having a huge celebration to honor their founding.  Of course, their founder was on his way to the Pacific Ocean, when he announced to the group of pioneers that they were in fact there. Did I mention, Blaine is in Missouri? Of course, like their founder, the town is far from exceptional also. The local acting group is planning a play, which will celebrate the many historic events that have taken place in Blaine's past. Of course, this being a small town in Middle America, standards of performances are somewhat less than what you might see in say, New York or LA. The town turns to the great Corky St. Claire to write, star and produce the show. Corky is the super talented (legend in his own mind), somewhat odd fellow, that produces all of the town's plays. Oscar Wilde only dreamed of being as alternative as Corky is. Of course, Corky will need help in making this epic play work, so he turns to his trusted core of locals for acting talent. Of course, when it is discovered that a broadway agent will be appearing at the town play, well, let's just say that the importance of the performance goes way up. Christopher Guest, Eugene Levy and all of the rest of the cast are just incredible. You will laugh out loud the whole way. The movie does have real emotion, but it is a comedy, first and foremost. **** out of ****. By the way, this is the same group that did Best in Show. "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waiting for Guffman is one of greatest comedies of all time.  The comedic genius of Christopher Guest is truly expressed in this masterpiece.  In addition to the great direction, the improvised brilliance of Eugene Levy, Fred Willard, Catherine O'Hara, Parker Posey, Bob Balaban, and Guest is greatly shown in this play on community theatre.  This is one of my favorite movies and is held in great regard.  10 Stars!! "},{"Title":"Sometimes subtle and a bit silly but extremely smart","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In these days of in-your-face jokes and gross-out humor, Waiting for Guffman' is all the more welcome for its gentle but dead-on depiction of small-town America and community theater. By turns funny and poignant, the talented cast takes us from auditions through performance of a musicale celebrating the anniversary of the founding of Blaine, Missouri, The Stool Capital of America. The production is the brainchild of one Corky Sinclair, a transplant from the Big Apple who sees the production as a possible ticket back to the Great White Way. He overcomes all sorts of hurdles, from finances to last-minute cast changes with melodrama and devotion, and gives Blaine an extravaganza the citizens of Blaine will never forget. The satire is always on target but never mean-spirited, and nowadays that is a real achievement. I have watched this several times and each time I have found a new comic gem.  "},{"Title":"Don't wait to see this movie.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The title alludes to the Samuel Beckett play Waiting for Godot, in which the protagonists engage in absurdist acts and dialogue while waiting for the elusive character who will purportedly be their salvation. Things aren't much different in Blaine Missouri when local thespian Corky St Claire (Christopher Guest) stages his play Red, White and Blaine for the town's sesquicentennial celebration. The proceedings are filmed documentary-style, a la Spinal Tap, the brilliant 1985 rockumentary spoof, which Guest also starred in and co-wrote. The tone in this movie is much kinder to the characters though, and you will want to sit though several screenings to catch all the delicious jabs. Also, don't skip the credits. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie about small-town community theater, ever made!","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As someone in small-town community theater, the entire movie struck a chord. From the auditions to the rehearsals to the opening, Guest sure knows his stuff.  And I'm not sure if this movie is as funny to people who have never been in the theater, but my entire family has seen it several times and laugh all the way through it.  Great flick! "},{"Title":"Small Town Smiles","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great film!  Excellent scripting by Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy. Feels like an extended SCTV episode - it's that good.  Cast really shines, especially Guest.  Rare for Levy to be in such a good film, American Pie being the other good one for him. "},{"Title":"A hilarious film","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the great underrated gems of the cinema.  This film is hilarious, but never too snide - while the characters are undeniably dorky, you can't help but love them (especially the Lunts of Blaine.  Red, White, and Blaine is the funniest play-within-a-movie you will ever see, and all the songs are mini-masterpieces of comedy, especially Everything is Boring on Mars.  "},{"Title":"A truly intelligent comedy","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is brilliant!  I was a theatre major in college, and I now teach high school drama.  I have seen ALL of these character types in the small productions I have participated in.  It is misguided to say that Guest is criticizing anyone by making this film.  We love to laugh at ourselves! And isn't there that small part of all of us (i.e. Eugene Levy) that believes we could actually make it big in show business?  I don't believe everyone will like this film, because unfortunately people have become accustomed to a different type of humor.  HOWEVER, if you crave cleverness and Christopher Guest's unique brand of humor . . .you will absolutely adore this movie.  "},{"Title":"It's like a Hitchcock movie, you know where they toss you in a rubber bag and throw you in the trunk of a car...","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You find movies like this, which is fall-down funny.  Christopher Guest (along with Eugene Levy and Michael McKeon) has crafted one of the most hilarious scripts imaginable. The characters are so good at being so serious and believing in everything that they do.  They think their lives in Blaine (with 5 letters in it), Missouri and their takes on acting are so important. It's so much fun to watch Libby Mae, Ron & Sheila, Dr. Pearl and of course, Corky talk about themselves and their everyday lives at the beginning of the mockumentary.  Libby describing her Dairy Queen gig Lots of people come into the DQ... burgers... cokes... Get a coke... just drive in and get a coke if you're thirsty. or Corky talking about job prospects in Blaine You know, one of those construction workers with the hat... you know the sweeping hard hat.  It's all so inane and so, SO funny!I will admit that this movie appeals much more to anyone who's done theatre, particularly community theatre.  The acting (or attempts at), the lines from the show, the auditions, the musical director who shops at Wal-Mart- everyone in theatre has seen or met someone like each of these characters. However, if you grew up in a small town like Blaine that had annual or periodical town celebrations, there are plenty of jokes that you'll get that others might miss.Christopher Guest is so fabulous at being the overly stereotypical gay off-off-off-off-off Broadway director, Corky St. Clair, who came off a navy ship in New York with a tube of chapstick and a dance belt to his name. He is such a talented actor and is great at covering his character's overly emotional personality.The supporting ensemble is great too, particularly Eugene Levy, Parker Posey and Catherine O'Hara.  Libby Mae's (Posey) audition piece is fabulous, as is Ron & Sheila's Midnight at the Oasis.  The songs in the movie are original (as with Spinal Tap which was made by several of the writers and actors here) and classic.  It takes several viewings to pick up on some of the lines in them, but they're so Corky/Christopher Guest, Levy and McKeon. Nothing ever happens on Mars is my personal favorite and the line You sit around, you sit some more/On the planet named for the Roman god of war.I would recommend watching this movie several times (like so many other people did) because if it isn't one thing, it's another hilarious moment that you missed the first time around.  It's one that my parents and I watch either together or by ourselves whenever we're having a bad day and want to laugh at the silliness of Corky and Company. You will see that nothing ever happens in Blaine, except for this show and how so many Blainians are affected read enthralled by it. "},{"Title":"Not to be missed!","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Truly the funniest movie ever! Rent it, buy it, laugh! Guest, Levy, Willard, O'Hara are so wonderful you'll feel you  know them or want to know them.  Midnight at The Oasis has never been so good.  A great film.  Moving, delightful, hilarious "}{"Title":"my personal favorite, though not for everyone...","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After seeing this movie twice in the theaters in 1996, I anxiously awaited it's video release a year later.  Now that I've seen my own copy of the film close to ten times, I can easily say that it's my favorite of all time.I've never seen any other movie that comes this close to pure perfection. Each and every line is delivered perfectly straight and then left for the viewer with the most sarcastically dry sense of humor to roll on the floor in hysterics over.  Every time I've watched and rewatched each classic scene, a line shows itself in a new way and I'm left hoping I used the bathroom recently because my bladder occasionally tries to laugh harder than I do at this one.As much as I love the magic Christopher Guest & Co bring to life with Guffman, the film remains a hard one to recommend.  I've watched it on two separate occasions with different groups of friends and in both viewings, I was almost embarrassed to find myself laughing alone.  It's easy to say that Guest's original mockumentary This is Spinal Tap is a good litmus test for Potential Guffman Fanatics, but I think that in order to be able to enjoy Spinal Tap to it's fullest deserved potential, one almost has to be a rock musician him/herself.  I see Guffman as a bit more accessible to a wider range of audiences.Don't be fooled by cheap, lifeless Hollywood imitations (i.e. Drop Dead Gorgeous).  It might take your sense of humor a couple of viewings to kick in, but Waiting for Guffman is definitely worth the wait. "},{"Title":"CHRISTOPHER GUEST IS TRULY A GENIUS","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies of all time, definitely the funniest of the decade.  This movie did not get the recognition it deserved because the style of comedy varies from most of the prominent comedies lately such as Sandler and Jim Carrey (both of whom I hate)This movie should be seen as a classic and if you like white face comedies this one is definitely for you "},{"Title":"Dead On!","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For anyone who has done any type of play or stage show in their life. You will understand how dead on this movie is. Christopher Guest as the garish Corky St. Clair is brilliant and shows remarkable talent for becoming the character he plays. Parker Posey was also fantastic in this. A must see I didn't know deer could do this. "},{"Title":"Where's the DVD???","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I singed up for IMDB *just* so I could rant about this movie.  The film is a brilliant showcase of improv talent, and a fantastic script/outline by Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy in a relatively untouched genre.  Don't just see it once - see it twice. You won't catch everything the first time. After you've seen it twice, go ahead and pop it in again...If you've watched Spinal Tap, you're well-primed for W.F.G.  Same mockumentary style, new cast of characters.  (The music and lyrics are written Michael McKean, Harry Shearer, Chrisopher Guest - of Spinal Tap fame)  I think the key to Waiting for Guffman's word-of-mouth success is the style of comedy.  The humor is often subtle, and when you begin to notice some of the less-obvious mannerisms of the characters, you feel like you're in on the joke.  It worked the same way with Spinal Tap.  The action is often away from the person who's at the center of the scene (like Catherine O'Hara mouthing Fred Willard's lines while they're auditioning).  Any past experience in small-town or high-school theater will also provide a good background.  I expect the people who didn't like W.F.G. didn't really understand the jokes - or didn't see it enough.Before I go, I would like to *BEG* Castle Rock Entertainment to release a Director's Cut DVD of Waiting for Guffman.  That is all.  "},{"Title":"Possibly the funniest film ever made","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hate to be hyperbolic, but I don't think i have ever laughed so much as I did the first and second times i saw Waiting for Guffman.  Christopher Guest reprises his Corky St. Clair from the old SNL Synchronized Swimming bit and makes the perfect mockumentary.  Yes this movie is a satire, but unlike This is Spinal Tap (another laugh-riot, by the way), Waiting for Guffman really likes it's characters.  It does not look down on them.  It acknowledges their quaintness (the small-town talk, the audience placed on a basketball court to watch the show), but it does not make fun and it does not demean, which is why it is such a treasure, and which is why the ending is so crushing... we really wanted these no-talents to at least think they could make it big.Supposedly there are more than 30 hours of footage for this film.  A plea to Christopher Guest  please please please make a director's cut DVD (even if it has to be multi-volumes).. there has got to be at least 10 hours of it that are at least half as hilarious as the released version.  If there is any justice, this film is destined to become a cult classic. "},{"Title":"The funniest color film ever made...","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...well, only because the Marx Brothers are about the only thing I might rate higher.  I don't need to add anything about how good it is, but I'd like to point out that, in my opinion, people like a  previous commentator who focus on how sad the characters are...get over yourself.  And watch again.  You may be far superior in your own estimation to the citizens of Blaine, but this film isn't just a cheap shot at pathetic rural bumpkins. Obviously they weren't really goin' to Broadway but in their own way, all their lives were changed by the show, and the joy they derive from it is infectious.  The comedy is brilliant and all the performances are exquisite.I'll be interested to see if Guffman acquires a reputation as the years go by...nobody saw it, but it seems to be a sleeper hit on video.  I'm certainly doing my part. "},{"Title":"This movie makes me sad...","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...Sad that there aren't many movies this brilliantly acted, brilliantly written (and improvised), and fall-on-the-ground funny!  The entire cast (but especially Christopher Guest) is amazing.  I doubt I'll ever see a movie with as many memorable, quotable lines.  Between this and my favorite TV show, NewsRadio, which is equally bizarre and funny, I'm well stocked up on one-liners for just about every occasion.  So if you haven't seen Waiting for Guffman yet, rent it tonight and prepare to bite your pillow! "},{"Title":"Take a bow, Corky","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With priceless lines and a dead-on portrayal of the usual suspects you find in community theatre, Guffman is a must-see. Theatre people in particular will find a lot to laugh at and love, and immediately recognize. The more I see from him, I get the feeling Christopher Guest is completely underappreciated (along with Harry Shearer and Michael McKean, fellow Spinal Tappers lending a hand here with Guffman's hilarious show tunes). These guys deserve way more recognition than they get. 80 hours of cut footage? The petition starts here for a director's cut. "},{"Title":"This movie rules all","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting For Guffman is probably one of the funniest movies I have ever seen in my entire life.  True, it's sad st the end, but the rest of the movie has you crying tears of laughter anyways.  I realize that most of my love and devotion for this movie comes from being a theater person myself, however there is so much random, awesome stuff thrown in the movie that anyone will enjoy it.  I definitely recommend it, it rules... "},{"Title":"THE definitive thespianic comedy","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In March of 1997, I entered the Angelika Theater in New York City and was greeted with an oversized poster for the new comedy from the lead guitarist of Spinal Tap. I was instantly sold! I had already read about the film in Newsweek and the New York Times, and knew somewhat what to expect from the film. The film's director/star/co-writer Christopher Guest had made an impression on me as Spinal Tap's Nigel Tufnel; on Saturday Night Live (during the 1984-85 season); and in the film The Princess Bride, in which he plays Count Rugen, the sadistic villain with six fingers on one hand. Co-star/co-writer Eugene Levy was a favorite of mine from SCTV (as Bobby Bittman, Sid Dithers and Stan Schmenge, among others) and he played memorable roles in Splash, Club Paradise and Multiplicity. And the rest of the cast possess equally amusing and impressive resumes.WAITING FOR GUFFMAN is a mockumentary in the tradition of Spinal Tap, mostly improvised by the talented ensemble of performers, shot in a faux-documentary style, and telling the story of an untalented group of thespians who fumble through an unmemorable musical play based on the history of their hometown, the fictional Blaine, Missouri, which is celebrating its sesqacentennial (150th aniversary).For fans of comedy, the film is a simplistic, silly gem of a story, with some viciously memorable lines (We're bi-coastal....that is if you consider the Mississippi River one of the coasts.) which soon incorporate themselves into your everyday vernacular, much like the dialogue from films like Caddyshack, Stripes and Star Wars. For actors and theatrical-types, the characters are scathing portrayals of the personality types that make up the little theater communities of America. (You may in fact know some of these characters in real life.) "}{"Title":"Cute but unsatisfying","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Imagine any episode of Andy Griffith where the town puts on a show and Barney Fife tries to horn in despite lack of talent.  Now, imagine *everybody* is like Barney Fife.Similar in style and tone to the superior Spinal Tap.  The cast of SCTV and SNL alums hits just the right note in exploring small-town pretension. Unfortunately, the characters are so unappealing that it's hard to enjoy. The three or four laugh-out-loud moments punctuate long stretches of tedium. The best jokes come over the end credits.  "},{"Title":"Funny and satirical","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Occasionally, I must admit, I caught a whiff of condescension, especially in the songs, but mostly this is very funny, a nice satire not just of small-town theater, but pretension anywhere (if Corky were to escape Guest's satiric eye, than this would be mean-spirited).  I especially loved the ending with the REMAINS OF THE DAY lunchboxes and the MY DINNER WITH ANDRE action figures. "},{"Title":"One Word Glorious","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How many times have I seen this film? Not enough. The glory never ceases to amaze me. So funny, so quotable. Your signature file will be filled with Guffman quotes... Its a Zen Thing, you know like, how many babies can you fit in a tire? "},{"Title":"Is this a documentary, or fiction?","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you have ever done community theatre, have wanted to do it, or have known anyone else who has, this will be a trip down memory lane. An hilarious romp through the creation and execution (in all senses of the word) of a piece of theatre at the amateur level.  "},{"Title":"A Toronto perspective","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Eugene Levy is one of the co-screenwriters of Waiting for Guffman. He is not from Toronto, but rather from Hamilton, Ontario about an hour away. I think the Blaine sesquicentennial idea was Eugene's. Toronto had a goofy sesquicentennial celebration about a decade ago which included the now-forgotten city mascot, Sesqui the Squirrel. It was all somewhat embarrassing, and I think we have an echo of it in Guffman. Hamilton has always enjoyed a friendly rivalry with Toronto, particularly in football (Ti-Cats vs. Argos). This could be a little jab from Gene.If familiar aspects of Toronto could magically be relocated to Aurora, Illinois in Wayne's World (by Mike Myers), then why not Blaine, Missouri?  "},{"Title":"classic - you really must see","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a litle mean, there's no denying that.  But if you don't mind making fun of a small podunk town, it is spectacularly hilarious.  I'm still trying to figure out if it's on a higher plane of funny from anything else. I liked it that much.  Really, you should see it. "},{"Title":"MIDWEST AT ITS FINEST","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I HAVE NEVER SEEN A MOVIE THAT CAPTURED THE MIDWEST SO WELL.. AFTER A BRIEF SABATICAL THERE FOR SCHOOL, WHERE I DID VIEW THE FILM, I COULDN'T BELIEVE THE ACCURACY OF THIS OUTRAGEOUS COMEDY... CORKY ST. CLAIRE IS AWSOME AND YOU KNOW I AM NOW WORKING IN TIMES SQUARE WHERE I JUST WISH I COULD PICK UP A REMAINS OF THE DAY LUNCH BOX FOR MY BREAKS.... I'D LIKE THE THERMOS TOO. AND I MUST ALSO SAY THAT PARKER POSY IS PHENOMENAL.  SHE IS SUCH A HIDDEN TALENT WHO TRULY DESERVES THE SPOTLIGHT, AND MY KISS.  AND FINALLY, IF ANYONE KNOWS WHERE I CAN GET THE REMAINING 80 HOURS OF FOOTAGE FROM THIS FILM, THAT WOULD BE GREAT. "},{"Title":"Community theater exposed!","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Truly one of the funniest films of the decade.  Portraying bad acting is one of the most difficult roles possible, but this cast has perfected it.  The best of the moc-doc style. "},{"Title":"Hometown Show Reveals Unexpected Talent","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This little film if a comedic gem.  Starred in and directed by Chritopher Guest as a quasi documentary, it explores the sesquicentennial celebration of Blaine, Missiouri. Corky St. Clair has come back from New York to direct the production.  He has a talent search and the fun begins.  From the singing dentist whose speciality is Stephen Foster tunes, to theDairy Queen waitress who spends her time putting glop on ice cream and stuff, this film had me in stitches.  These people want to go to Broadway and take themselves VERY seriously.  You won't, however.  I loved WAITING FOR GUFFMAN. "},{"Title":"Quality mockumentary from the master, but lacking depth","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's all there. The ridiculous characters who live a ridiculous delusion centered around a particular niche of people. The dry, awkward, intentional but not portrayed to be that way humor. It's classic Christopher Guest mockumentary and it's exactly what Waiting for Guffman is. The only thing is that Guest never goes the extra step to make these characters anything more than hysterical and it's there for the taking.Guffman centers around a fictional Missouri town called Blaine in which a local theater director Corky St. Clair (Guest) has agreed to create and direct a show about the history of the town for its 150th anniversary celebration. The film goes through the whole process by interviewing everyone involved and following St. Clair as it all happens. When they hear that a Broadway scout of sorts named Mort Guffman is to attend their performance, they all get incredibly excited.Guest and his usual cast of actors playing yet another set of actors are great once again in this film. Eugene Levy is great as the town's dentist who discovers his theatrical side when he's cast in the show. Fred Willard and Catherine O'Hara continue to apply their off-beat senses of humor to their roles as a husband and wife that run a travel agency despite never having left Blaine in their lives. Parker Posey also demonstrates a great subtle humor to her part as a young Dairy Queen employee.The greatest statement that Guest makes with this film is that it's completely absurd that these people expect their lives to become anything more than dull. You follow them and they're so passionate about it despite clearly having no talent. But at the same time, Guest never really explores that. He just shows you the process of putting on the show in this film and relies on humor to carry you through it. With such great actors and characters like in all his films, it shocks me to see it all get wasted or at the least never fully developed. We never get to see these characters for who they really are despite the fact that we enjoy laughing at them. "}{"Title":"This is a funny movie   no really","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Um, Parker Posey is a red-hot babe. Wait-MOM--could you not TOUCH THE COMPUTER so I could WRITE PLEASE! Anyway this is areally funny movie.Parker is soooooo hot. Anyway, I was not bored by this movie, for the most part.Christopher Guest is a really good director except that he gets these two boring actors, Eugene Levy and that chick who plays his wife- and they just go on and on and on. Catherine O'Hara just doesn't play real. She tries too hard. Dear Catherine--------------------------------------Less is more.The concept is parody. Do parody sweetie.Don't demonstrate acting-just act. The role is not 'performing your resume'. "},{"Title":"waiting for the ending","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Being a fan of most of Guest's films, I found myself quite surprised and a little guilty for not enjoying this film. I didn't necessarily have high expectations for it, but I did expect it to make me laugh. For me, the only thing I found myself waiting for was the laughs. Thirty minutes into it I thought I might turn it off, but I trekked on to see if it picked up. It didn't. I have no problem with mocumentaries, and actually enjoy quite many of them, but this one just fell flat on it's face. All it is, is annoying people being annoying. I suppose it's intended to be humorous but I found it simply annoying, sometimes painfully. Maybe some of this can be attributed to the fact that I was expecting more of a film and less of a mocumentary. It's format, even for mocks, became quite tedious. There were too many interviews. The film's major flaw is that it takes what might be slightly funny in the beginning and just repeats it into infinity. If you've seen the first 20 minutes, you've seen the entire film. It's not that it's not funny, it's just not funny enough.I will admit though, even if I didn't enjoy it, it's amazing to think that a movie can be made with literally no script and all improvisation. I do not doubt the talent of the actors involved, the film just might have benefited from some form of an outline and possibly better editing. Those who have said that if you like Spinal Tap, you like this film....not true. I love Spinal Tap but just couldn't get into this one. I'll never watch it again. "},{"Title":"One of the finest films ever made!, no really!","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of the finest comedic films ever made.Everything about this film is perfect. The acting and improvised script are absolutely superb, but it's the Intelligence of this work that impresses the most, it's very rare in modern comedies to have the subtlety and lightness of touch that is evident here.Far Better, in my humble opinion, than Spinal Tap, Best in Show( though both are great) and the slightly disappointing Mighty Like the Wind.Corky Sinclair is definitely the best character created by the prodigiously talented Christopher Guest.Maybe one day some bright spark will give the DVD a worldwide release!  "},{"Title":"You might not get it, but its still good","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I personally thought Waiting for Guffman was excellent.  The writing is genius because the timing is so perfect.  Christopher Guest is amazing. Many people may not understand the film because there are no jokes thrown out at you; the humor is very subtle.  But if you listen carefully, almost every line is hilarious in some form. Most people in theatre or people who lived in small towns (like me) realize how witty this film really is. I would give Waiting for Guffman 8/10 stars.Peace and love.    "},{"Title":"A satirical comedy which doesn't seem to be very fond of the nature of the participants being satirized...","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Writer-director Christopher Guest's timing and peculiar sense of humor are purposefully erratic--and it takes some time for him to get an audience off the dime and into the perplexing spirit of his cinematic occasions. Guest is well-attuned to the colorful eccentricities of 'ordinary' folks, yet his knowing nature borders on smirking, and I'm not a big fan of obnoxiousness--no matter how talented the participants. Mockumentary about a small town acting troupe putting on a musical production does benefit from some great players (particularly Fred Willard, Eugene Levy, and the effortlessly funny Catherine O'Hara). However Guest, himself a co-star--giving a rather offensive performance as gay theater director Corky--does not have the pizazz to bring off scenes of uncomfortable ineptitude. One waits in queasy vain for a pay-off that never comes. I assume Guest wants to have some comedic punch within these improvisational set-ups; if so, he's punching with two limp wrists, and his film is awfully long even at 84 minutes. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"my least favorite of the recent Guest/Levy collaborations, which means it's still funny, sometimes ingenious","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting for Guffman wasn't the first Christopher Guest/Eugene Levy collaboration (as writers I mean, it's a Guest movie all the way) I had seen, but I think I probably would've reacted to it as I did after having seen it after Best in Show and A Mighty Wind. It's like Guest and his always inspired troupe were with a full burst of energy with their characters, even if they're all in a movie that's a little too short (it says 84 minutes but it feels even brisker if that's possible) and provides some characters who are funny all the time (like Guest's flamboyantly flamboyant Corky or Levy's nerdy and ostensibly Jewish Allan Pearl or Fred Willard as Rob Albertson), and some who are funny only in spurts like Catherine O'Hara or Bob Balaban. It's got quirky written all over the place, but it's always endearing in it's very strange way to show these people as they are, and the characters are likable even at their most deranged and just, well, 'small-town'.Guest plays the director of a small-town's 150th anniversary memorial play, about how a town in Missouri came to be. It's a chance really to get glimpses into the people who get the chance of a lifetime (err, for seemingly their mundane lifetimes), and especially for Corky who gives prima-donna an odd name; he almost storms off when he doesn't get the money he asks the committee for (calling them 'bastards' in an angry burst that's one of the funniest things I've ever seen from Guest in anything he's done). Then comes crunch-time for the show, as Corky has to take a part himself and Alan Pearl has to convincingly play a part he has absolutely no confidence at (those glasses!). And all the while, the 'Guffman' of the title- ala Godot- is a near God-like figure who could make or break the perception of the production for Corky and his cast. The final revelation from this is a comic classic touch.This all being said, I didn't really get the great big belly laughs and get as sucked into the world of these oddballs (and all done in improvisational form no less) as I did with the other films that have the mark of Guest and/or Levy. There are some parts where I'll smile at the near whimsy of what's going on, but a line might go flat or a bit a little weak. But if it's ever on TV, I'm sure I would tune in again just for a little while, if only to see a few of the songs from the 150th anniversary show (the 'Mars' song a favorite), and for that great epilogue. "},{"Title":"Went right through me","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie for a first time, and I was extremely bored and extremely disappointed.  Then I was pretty much bombarded by people, protesting my low opinion of this comedy.  They were claiming things like, 'Waiting for Guffman' not funny?  How is that possible?  So I decided to keep an open mind, and give it a second viewing.  I have to say, I liked it a LITTLE better this time around, but I still found it no more than mediocre.  There were some funny sequences--OK, I have to admit the idea of Backdraft  The Musical was pretty damn funny--but most of the humor just went right through me.  I like improvisational comedy, if it's done right.  I love Whose Line is it Anyway?  Improv can be used for dynamic purposes.  In this case, it wasn't.  Now I'm hearing all this stuff about the movie being actually a satire on small town America, and maybe it is accurate.  How the hell would I know?  I lived in the city all my life.  Whatever it is, it's not too interesting--to me at least.  There are some comedies I watch where I think to myself, This is completely stupid, but at least I know when the film is trying to go for laughs and where the punchlines are, and I know that there's a possibility that someone on Earth might find it funny.  In Waiting for Guffman the punchlines seemed to be non-existent--or maybe hidden.  The cast is, undoubtedly, great.  And that makes it more pitiful.  Talented performers like Fred Willard, Parker Posey, Catherine O'Hara, Eugene Levy and others deserve much better.  I'm glad the general public found great amusement in this movie, but I didn't.  And I'm not anxious about jumping on the bandwagon.    "},{"Title":"Waiting for Something Funny","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was shocked there were 18 pages of good reviews. This has to be one of the worst movies especially considering it was recommended. Must admit that comedies are not my favorite genre, but this movie made it worst in that it tried so hard to be clever that it made me squirm to watch it.The concept of the movie is comparable to audition week on American Idol. You watch because people are so blind to their shortcomings. But we knew this movie didn't have bad actors. So how funny would it be to have good singers try to convince they shouldn't get anywhere near an American Idol tryout? It would be pointless as this movie was.The use of improv is over-rated. We've all been in that setting where a group of friends get on a roll and everyone is cracking up with tears in the their eyes. I feel that is improv. Improv can't be turned on just because the camera is rolling as this film proves. If you like that Drew Carey hosted show of improv, you'll probably like this film.Overall the jokes were poor, the improv was sophomoric, and the over-acting by Guest and company was campy...and those are my compliments of this drivel. If a guy playing a trumpet AND the kettle drum at the same time is funny to you, fine. For me, I prefer more heady stuff like I Love Lucy or Hee-Haw.But remember, I think SNL lost its humor in the 1980's, so maybe you'll like this G-rated humor. I kept waiting for a person to identify himself as the zoo keeper and then tell us there was no zoo in town. That's the humor you can expect.My only wish was that I could give this a minus rating. "},{"Title":"Waiting to be entertained ...","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This Christopher Guest film has the potential to be incredibly funny considering it's about a small midwestern town's historic festival drama production.  The characters are iconoclastic emblems of small town life, who find leadership in a neurotic off-off-off... Broadway director turned high school drama teacher, Corky.But soon the movie plays out like a bad pbs documentary.  The intended humor is just that, intended, but so contrived it's stale, like a day old loaf of French bread.  The town of Blaine places its salvation in Corky's hands as he plans on making his return to off-off-off... Broadway with.  How? Guffman (to say more would give away the plot).About the only saving grace of this movie is the humourous tension between the high school music director, Lloyd Miller, a control-freak of short stature, and Corky, the closet-gay drama queen.If you want to see a funny Christopher Guest film, rent Best in Show, or go see Might Wind.  Definitely pass on this train wreck of a mockumentary. "},{"Title":"Parts of life are just plain existentially hokey.","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In what begin Christopher Guest's unofficial mockumentary trilogy (to be followed by Best in Show and A Mighty Wind), the small town of Blaine, Missouri, puts on a hokey play about the history of their town, hoping that an agent will come and make them famous. Waiting for Guffman overall shows that life is what one makes it; no one is going to change it for us.Of course, in the process of showing this, they come up with some pretty funny stuff. We get to know the characters and their quirks (and believe you me, there are some whacked out quirks). Guest assembles his usual co-stars Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara, but there's also Larry Miller, Fred Willard, Parker Posey, and Bob Balaban. A really neat movie. "}{"Title":"Guffman delivers more than I ever thought I could get out of a film","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I discovered this wonderful movie at a young age and like a fine wine it only grows on me as the years go by. Anyone with the will to look at the omnipresent humor that lies in the everyday will be swept away with this film's genius- from the idea to the improv, the cast and Guest do a superb job at creating the most commonplace and simultaneously weird-as-hell scenario and plot line known to man. Its all there and its all hilarious- From the quirky corky to the DAiry Queen teachers pet, to not knowing deers could do that with their hooves to loving beans and pelvic thrusting, this comedy is by far my favorite film of all time. Period. "},{"Title":"Even Funnier When You Stop & Think About It","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've read a handful of negative posts here, although the vast majority of reviewers love this movie. I watched Waiting For Guffman two nights ago, and this morning driving to work I literally burst out laughing as I remembered the highlights of the film. True enough, I was also laughing while I watched it, but certain situations and one-liners take time to fully register how ridiculous they are. What's not said or shown is often with Guest as funny as what is shown. It just takes a little while for you to form your own mental images of these implausible situations! The obvious example is the absolutely wonderful Fred Willard dropping his trousers in the restaurant. On one level it's an obvious joke, but when you stop and think about (a) how carefully the gag has been set up over the preceding scenes (we know he has had an embarrassing operation); (b) the gusto with which Fred seems to relish crossing the bounds of acceptable taste; and (c) Fred's character Ron's dumb premise that just because Dr Pearl is a dentist (a medical man), he would be interested in looking at his manhood! There's a sort of flawed logic in there somewhere, and that's what makes it so funny, trying to imagine how Ron arrived at this frame of mind (eg the infamous wedding night when Sheila cried so much).Another thing that made me stop and think was the character of Corky. I can see why at first glance he can seem like an annoying gay stereotype. But good ol' Christopher Guest has a trick up his sleeve...listen VERY carefully and you'll hear him mention his wife (just once in the whole movie). I don't actually think for a minute Corky is homosexual, he just acts exceedingly camp. Most people have the same reaction Johnny Savage's Dad has...which probably says something about us, the viewer, and our eagerness to jump to conclusions. We should realise that Christopher Guest is one step ahead of us!Top performance of the movie for me goes to Fred Willard, as always in these ensemble pieces, every second he is on screen he just makes me roll around on the floor in hysterics. By his usual standards he is relatively subdued here, but those familiar lowest-common-denominator comments and so-unfunny-they're-funny wisecracks are all still here in abundance. The scene where Ron and Sheila are working as extras and Ron just will not shut up is priceless - pure Willard genius.Everyone else is well up to par Parker Posey is gorgeous yet a little scary as Libby the Dairy Queen girl. Catherine O'Hara, Eugene Levy, Bob Babalan et al..they all gel so well together as a unit and spark so instinctively off each other. Talking of instinct, that comment about Ron teaching Sheila to ignore her instinct...the mind boggles! I mean, just try and imagine that (unshown) scene for a minute. Imagine an actor trying to play a character WITHOUT using their instinct! Can you think of a worse piece of advice? Where on earth did Ron get this ridiculous theory about acting from?! I suspect it's the polar opposite of what Mr Guest encourages his cast to do.I've only seen this once, compared to multiple viewings of the other Guest movies. They have all made a really made a big impression on me. If you want intelligent dialogue, strong emotions and real deep belly laughs, then watch Waiting For Guffman! "},{"Title":"Guest's best movie?","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is probably my favorite Christopher Guest movie, which is hard to say when knowing about Spinaltap, and really all of the movies he has done. However, there is something about the characters in this movie that are just hilarious. I absolutely love Catherine O' Hara's and Fred Willard's marital relationship in this movie-honest to god, she hasn't cried this much since our wedding day. Also, Eugene Levy is genius, but my favorite character would have to be Corky-I just hate you and your ass face. Parker Posey's performance as a poorly educated small-town girl is priceless. Perhaps one of my favorite lines in this movie is when she says New York sounds so exciting, I would like to go and meet some Italian guys and like, I don't know, watch t.v and stuff. Posey also has a few other priceless lines in movies such as Best in Show, Of course I looked under the bed, thats where you look when you lose things and Dazed and Confused, Wipe that face off your head bitch. Waiting for Guffman is definitely a must see movie for everyone. "},{"Title":"HAHAHA","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love how somebody said that Waiting for Guffman has a cheap reference to Something About Mary.  I seriously laughed my A** off!  Waiting for Guffman was made in 1996, and Something About Mary was made in 1998.  Think before you write such silly things.  (hehehe)BTW--One of the best comedies ever.  I already wrote a rave review.  "},{"Title":"Waiting for something funny to happen","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Was this a comedy?  If so, why didn't I laugh once throughout this boring endurance test of a non-movie?  Guest et al. seem to think it terribly clever to lampoon small-minded, minimally talented Midwesterners, which is kind of like shooting fish in a barrel, and is equally unentertaining. When this sort of gag actually does work, as it often did on the old Second City Television show, it can be hilarious; here, however, SCTV's Catherine O'Hara and Eugene Levy do the best they can with a garbage script, and we end up with silly cross-eye faces, an insultingly portrayed funny gay man character, and a weak reference to the hair-gel joke from Something About Mary.Has Hollywood really become so lame that this sort of tripe passes for brilliant satire? "},{"Title":"Possibly the funniest movie ever made.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Those who rate this movie a 10 are probably theatre people.  Anyone who has ever worked in community theatre can immediately identify with this film and its characters.  I don't think there is a single show nation-wide I have worked on where the cast and crew was not able to quote this film.  The mockumentary style is fun to watch and consistent (unlike Strictly Ballroom) and brilliant ad-libs and improvisational work add a fresh spontaneity to this film as well as their others (This is Spinal Tap, Best in Show, and A Mighty Wind).  Each film probes a different subject and makes it uniquely American though its use of setting and characters. "},{"Title":"Small town Best in Show","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Christopher Guest has a unique and distinct sense of humor.  It must not be widespread because the same characters show up in his movies.  His dead-pan, straight-faced approach to comedy is supposed to show us the humor in every day life and regular folk.  While there are some chuckle evoking moments, most of this one is just curious. Eugene Levy's act has grown tiresome, but I do think Guest has some nice moments on screen.  Not in the same class as Best in Show, which I did not like as much as many.  My advice to Guest is to expand your horizon - find some new actors to give your work a fresh look.  And PLEASE stop casting Fred Willard. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully satirical comedy.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waiting for Guffman is a clever satirical comedy about a handful of citizen's in Blaine, Missouri, a fictitious town celebrating its sesquicentennial. The film uses the mockumentary approach to show a motley bunch of wannabee performers as they create a musical stage play depicting the town's history. Actor/Writer/Director Christopher Guest is the centerpiece of the film playing a gay performer with some real off-off-off-off-Broadway experience who produces the town's musical. A great watch for anyone who loves satire or that off-the-wall, tongue-in-cheek Second City brand of humor. "},{"Title":"Waiting for Guffman","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A quirky stage director celebrates his small town's history by putting on a play featuring local residents. This hilarious mockumentary was written by Guest and Levy and directed by Guest. A fun cast of SCTV and SNL greats make this one of the most creative comedies I've ver seen.  "},{"Title":"Bright comedy that trusts and respects its audience","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was tempted to write in the Summary line that this movie was,in fact,the birth of the Mockumentary form of comedy that has brought forth not only director/writer/co-star Christopher Guest's ensuing films(Best in Show,A Mighty Windand For Your Consideration)but such choice TV offerings as Arrested Development,The Office and Reno 911! and movies owing some nod to this style such as Drop Dead Gorgeous,Lisa Picard is FAmous and Run! Ronnie,Run!,but actually,that distinction may belong in truth to This is Spinal Tap,which is,in turn where Guest cut his teeth in terms of straight-playing,improvisational tour-guiding of viewers through fictional and laughable real people and situations. Still,it feels like this movie practically made the improvised(and not improvised)sense of taking the viewer through supposedly unforced and natural parody seem natural,effortless and brilliant.The small,central(?) Missouri town of Blaine is(As of 1995-96) turning 150 years old,and for something special to commemorate the sesquicentennial of Founder's Day,one-time Broadway actor and choreographer Corky St.Clair(Guest,relishing this chance to shed his more bankable notice from such films as Spinal and Princess Bride)decides to seize this opportunity and put on a big-scale,Broadway quality musical celebrating the town's quaint yet odd history. He hires a composer--a quietly resentful music teacher(Bob Balaban,masterfully non-descript and intelligent,quietly funny)--and goes about assembling a cast. After sitting through an audition casting call that can be politely described as Unique(examples a caped stunt player and a man who fires ping pong balls and catches them,both by mouth),he is able to make his castDr.Allan Pearl(Eugene Levy,who is a joy to watch in almost everything he does) a shy,modestly talented but game dentist with vision problems;Ron and Sheila Albertson(Fred Willard--who would belong in a HAll of FAme of comedic character actors--and CAtherine OHAra,who along with Levy,is a Ace SCTV alum who NEEDS more projects like this),local travel agents,also semi-talented and both quite delusional; Libby MAe Brown(Parker Posey,somewhat out-of-the-norm for her here,IF there's a norm for her types of roles),a basically unspoiled Dairy Queen employee,also with limited stage talent but game for the challenge;Johnny SAvage(MAtt Keeslar),a handsome but perceivably dense auto mechanic who goes along for the show,regardless of how much he may really fit in;and local storyteller Clifford Wooley(Lewis Arquette,more famous for being a member of the acting family),who serves as the narrator for their production. As Corky assembles the talent on hand,rehearses and tries to get the show up, he runs into his share of roadblocks(lack of funding,cast availability,potential nervous breakdowns,etc.)as he gets word(perhaps solicited)that a major Broadway talent scout named Mort Guffman(hence the title)may be on his way to view the show,presenting the chance for Corky to return to his beloved New York and possibly a chance for Stars to be Born,so to speak.Co-written by Levy,this movie leaves the punchlines,situations and pratfalls--verbal AND physical--to be caught by the audience,never overdoing anything and always rolling the situation along. BArely ninety minutes long,the movie figures--and rightly so--that if you missed something and were at all interested in what you saw that you'd want to watch it again,perhaps multiple times. These are all qualities that,while I realize in major motion pictures is going to be somewhat rare,I LOVE to see employed. Being someone who has dabbled in local theater,I can say that there are some rather universal elements in the look,feel and ambitions of putting on the show and making sure the Show must Go on! that make this movie distinctive and great. Whether it's a simple Summer Stock production or a MAssive,Major Broadway production,there's always this idea that the stage is somewhere where talent is raw and unpredictable,tough to corral and always rife with potential to go wrong. Besides the previous film qualities I've mentioned,this film also captures the sense of making theatre(And it really,let's be honest,wouldn't be so funny if the talent assembled here WASN'T sub-par),which can easily be very UN-entertaining,and makes it funny and raw.A keeper of a movie,and a good teaser or compliment to the other Guest-Levy penned films made from thence forward. Maybe,as the tag-line says,all talent shouldn't be discovered,but you don't feel so bad coming across this assemblage. "}{"Title":"I was waiting for the end","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While respecting and enjoying the work of everyone involved, I still felt underwhelmed by this experiment in satire. Christopher Guest and his cohorts created a dead-on spoof of small-town Middle-American earnestness and delusion, but the format was perhaps too loose and too unscripted to hold together as a film, for my tastes at least. It would have made for a great 30 minute short, but at 84 minutes it felt interminable like one of those Saturday Night Live skits that starts out funny and on the mark, but doesn't know when to quit.  "},{"Title":"Comic","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There is a difference between a cinematic sensibility and a TeeVee one. Cinema is rooted in the visual vocabulary; TeeVee is personality-based, skit-centered. One is stained glass, the other comic book.Skits can be funny, and this sometimes is. But why? If all you are doing with your life is filling space, this is amusing filler.`Drop Dead Gorgeous' takes a half step toward cinema and is an interesting study.Of the many films of this type (shows about shows), `Illuminata' is an example of something more real. Or if you want a laugh-your-ass-off cult film, try `The Falls' which this film quotes. "},{"Title":"Not Funny At All","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was like watching a bad SNL skit. There were no laughs and Christopher Guest is not funny. I am amazed that a producer told me to rent this. I should have known when he said he liked Throw Momma From the Train. Terrible acting and a dumb plot. It's shot in sort of an interview style and is so boring. Mr. Guest plays a gay drama coach like he portrayed in the SNL skit Synchronized Swimming (Martin Short). Just not funny.       "},{"Title":"And the point is?","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie to be quite annoying.  I can't believe the 7.6 rating this movie received from voters.  There was no point to it.  90 minutes + of annoying dialog, going nowhere.  The few laughs, actually I can only think of a couple, were not worth an entire movie of mediocre characters trying to put on a 150 year anniversary show about the history of a little town called Blaine, Missouri.  Somewhere in this movie, I heard folks of Blaine refer to a UFO abduction several years ago.  The incident went unnoticed by the outside world, thereby making it an unproven tale.  The UFO story was the most interesting thing about Blaine -- the director and all the characters were extremely eccentric, which was the premise for the movie.I just don't see 7.6 or even 5.6 -- after the movie, I kept wondering, what was the point?  I was neither entertained nor mentally stimulated. "},{"Title":"A one joke movie that doesn't last beyond the first 15 minutes","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a one joke movie that doesn't last beyond the first 15 minutes. Once the movie establishes how bad the actors really are, it doesn't move away from the joke subjecting the viewer to multiple scenes of boredom. If you see the DVD, you'll see a full 1/2 hour of outtakes, some of which are funnier than scense in the movie. "},{"Title":"Sorry I bought this.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Maybe after seeing Best in Show my expectations were set a little too high. Particularly in light of all the high praise this thing has received....however, it doesn't deserve all the accolades.OK sure, this flick is inventive, new, and occasionally funny. But for the most part it's fairly boring, monotonous, and highly irritating. You find yourself waiting and waiting for someone to do or say something funny like don't be a fool, everybody wants stools but that's the exception to the rule...fool. I'm going to write this one off to the advancing political correctness that has overtaken us, along with the massive Y chromosome shrinkage we've apparently suffered in the last 30 years. I wonder what Trent Lott has to say about Corky St. Clair? And as usual, Catherine O'Hara's character is the clear highlight of this uncircumcised turkey. The restaurant scene did have me ROTFLMBO, but that's about it. 5 Foreskins, all in the hopes that Christopher Guest continues to build on the content of Best in Show, a much much funnier film. "},{"Title":"Terrible Film","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How on earth do these guys get the money to make a film like this?The film was shot like a documentary, very much in the vein of 'Looking for Richard'. It was dull, uninteresting, and did not make me laugh at all. I didn't care about the characters, and the style of the film needed a breath of fresh air. "},{"Title":"Funniest part of this movie is the title.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you haven't heard of Michael Rubbo's documentary Waiting for Fidel then you're missing out on the funniest part of this movie.  Rubbo's documentary was about an interview with Fidel Castro which never came to be.  None the less Rubbo made an intriguing documentary of life in Cuba.  Waiting for Guffman follows a similar premise where a bunch of talentless small town folk put together a play in hopes that a Broadway producer named Guffman will come and see it; he never does.  If you think actors trying to act bad is funny then this film is for you. Otherwise stay away, far, far away. There are very few written jokes so it is the stupidity of the characters that is supposed to elicit laughter.  Guest has a few good lines but can't save an otherwise boring movie.  Watch This is Spinal Tap it is also by Guest (with McKean and Shearer) and it is the creme de la creme of mock-umentaries. "},{"Title":"overall insulting treatment of the little morons in this little town with their little play","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a good idea poorly executed.  The idea of doing a documentary about a small town auditioning and performing in their own play is a pretty good one.The principle problem is Christopher Guest as Corky.  He basically plays Corky as a retarded gay guy and a completely unfunny and uninteresting one at that.The film is also rather condescending (as are most Hollywood films about small towns) in the way it depicts everyone in the town gushing over this idiot and practically handing him the keys to the city.  And, also in Hollywood fashion, the town leaders are depicted as brainless two-dimensional figures.On the plus side, there were great performances by some of the townspeople cast members  Eugene Levy, Fred Willard, Catherine O'Hara, etc. Unfortunately they weren't enough to overcome the dreadful performance by Guest and overall insulting treatment of the little morons in this little town with their little play.  (I gave up on this film about half way through.) "},{"Title":"fast forward from Spinal Tap to Best In Show","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was an anomaly compared to the bookends of Spinal Tap and Best In Show. Parody and caricature are at the essence of the comedy of these three films, but Guffman comes off far more contrived, less clever, and more mean-spirited. The result is a comedy that rests on a foundation that you find small-town folk backwards and funny in their own right, and the movie comes down like a house of cards if you don't buy into this premise. There's little else to keep it afloat.Which isn't to say that small-town folk can't be the source of some really good, mean-spirited humor. But unfortunately, there is very little humor that works beyond this one-dimensional gimmick, which is executed poorly.The characters drone and whine on about their petty small-town issues, quirks, senses of importance, and problems. You care for none of them, turning the cast into a circus of annoying dinner guests whose idiosyncrasies are too pathetic to find legitimate humor in.Maybe if you grew up in a small town and wanted to exact your revenge on your small-minded, petty neighbors, this will come off as hilarious. But for me, it came off as boring, uninspired, and about as dynamically funny as a bad British comedy of manners. Not worth the investment of time to even watch 2 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Funny but shallow","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A funny thing happens near the middle of Waiting For Guffman We in the audience start to care about the characters around the same time the film stops doing the same.Blaine, Missouri is celebrating its 150th anniversary with an all-out show featuring the talents of travel agents Ron and Sheila Albertson, Dairy Queen ingenue Libby Mae Brown, and dentist/funnyman Allan Pearl. Directed by off-off-off-off Broadway veteran and bad hairpiece wearer Corky St. Clair, Red White and Blaine is a show designed to commemorate the town milestone with a bang.The film does a great job introducing us to the characters, who are immediately appealing in their no-talent, all-heart way. We enjoy watching them struggle to nail bad songs and hanging-man choreography. It's funny when Corky tells us how, after his umpteenth failed show in the Big Apple, he finally got the joke. Ron and Sheila have an audition performance that blends Midnight At The Oasis with 1980s Tasters Choice commercials, and kills as much as Ron's better-known account of his penis-reduction surgery.You'd think after watching Guffman once that you'll only find it funnier with repeat viewings, but not quite. Director Christopher Guest has a gay old time playing Corky, but his one-note character grates after a while. Bob Balaban has a central role, in which he seems to play Bob Balaban, a smart, urban, slightly befuddled presence amid these straw-chewing yokels. Ron, Sheila, and Libby Mae sparkle all the way, but what's the story with the sullen garage boy who's here and gone in about 15 minutes? I guess the joke was that Corky liked him, but that's small payoff for all the build-up he gets.SPOILER FOLLOWS The film meanders through its big payoff, the show itself. We are meant to find it funny how badly these actors really are on stage, but we've actually seen them improve from their rehearsals, and they only seem like what they are, passionate amateurs. In that light, it seems cruel the film concludes with not one but two hard stops. In the first one, we see their big audition for a New York agent is not what they hoped in a painful, drawn-out, unfunny scene. Later, we discover the acting bug has infected all the players in a decidedly unfortunate way. Dr. Pearl leaves his wife to perform in old-age homes. Ron and Sheila are extras in commercials. Libby Mae now works at a Dairy Queen in Sipes, Alabama. SPOILER ENDS.So I laugh watching this movie. It's funny. But it's cold and mean, too, and the laughs feel hollow. I'd like it more if it retained the spirit of the first half, and some of the same feeling of positivism that makes another film about non-talents, Ed Wood, a true joy.BTW - A great thing about the DVD is the chance to see Parker Posey's Libby Mae perform her acting audition, a scene from what seems to be Tennessee Williams' treatment of Flowers In The Attic. It's mindbendingly hilarious, easily the best thing in the film, used or not. Who's on top, and who's on bottom now? I'll see you in hell, Billy, but I'm gonna have some fun before I go! "},{"Title":"a waste of your time","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is just simply a waste of your time if you are thinking about seeing it, the actors are untalented and not funny at all. this is right up there with requiem for a dream in poorness. the only saving grace of this movie is Eugene Levy who is unbelievable. "}]