[{"Title":"A story of spiritual struggle","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"78 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In order to fully appreciate The Apostle it might help to have some experience with southern Pentecostal culture.  I do, and was completely taken in by the film.  My wife, on the other hand, doesn't have that experience and understands neither the film nor my fondness for it.  But I think that, if one is not distracted or confused or simply put off by the loud, emotional, sometimes corny religiosity portrayed here, one can see a strong, compelling story of a seriously, ultimately fatally flawed man whose faith in God and in God's mission for him reaches to his very core.On the surface, one can view Sonny Dewey as just another example of a certain type of religious fraud  the backslapping, perpetually-grinning, wisecracking good old boy who uses religion and exploits his flock for his own selfish ends.  He looks like someone who doesn't practice what he preaches.  He womanizes, he's not above taking a snort from this pocket flask, he has a troubled marriage and we get the hint that he is the source of more than his share of the trouble, even to the extent of driving his wife into the arms of another man.  He seems to be just another Elmer Gantry or,  to pick from the real world, he's just like one of the fallen televangelists of recent years.  But just when you're comfortable with that judgment of him, Sonny proves you wrong.  He admits to his faults, some more freely than others.  But he makes no excuses for them and, in the end, he knows that he is going to pay for them.What really draws me into the film, and what really makes  Sonny interesting for me, is the way Duvall has made him such a complex character.   He's a bad guy and a good guy.  He is darkness and he is light.  He is sometimes endearing and other times someone you really don't feel comfortable trusting.   But by creating this ambiguity, Duvall does a service not only to the way religious leaders are characterized in film, he also pays homage to core religious issues.  By diving into the murky waters of Sonny's soul, Duvall goes into territory known to any seriously religious person.    As much as you might want things to be black and white, a good portion of the time you're being pulled back into the shadows  there are good intentions and evil deeds; there are selfless aspirations and appetites to be fed. Sometimes you swing wildly from one side to the other.  Sometimes you are on an even keel.  Sometimes you're not sure.Faith and work determine how such a struggle will turn out.  Sonny is energized by both.  He believes in what he is doing.  He believes that God has given him a mission and he is determined to accomplish it, even in spite of himself.  While it might be tempting to make a stark contrast between the message Sonny preaches and the actions he has done that are contrary to it, one must always remember that a good preacher always preaches to himself as well as his congregation.  But some of the more revealing moments of the film are not when Sonny is in front of a congregation, or even with other people generally, but when he is alone with God  ranting at God in anger; dedicating himself to God in the moment that he becomes the Apostle; the soul-searching moments when he forgives his wife and resigns himself to his fate.The no-punches-pulled realness of Sonny's struggle is a refreshing departure from the usual film portrayals of religious figures  plaster saint, con-man, one-dimensional milquetoast.  But it also brings to the forefront the question of whether Sonny, or any of us, can be used for divine purpose.The Apostle is beautifully filmed and captures well a portion of the rural South  you can almost feel the humidity and smell the swampwater.  And while the well-known actors in the film (Farrah Fawcett, Billy Bob Thornton, Miranda Richardson) all turn in fine performances, it is the unknowns --the church members and townfolk -- that really give the film an added authenticity.  "},{"Title":"Can I get a witness?","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"44 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didn't grow up down South, or even in the midwest, but I do know a little bit about the Pentacostal Church and Christian fundamentalism.  Robert Duvall is an ambitious actor and film maker, and The Apostle hits home with its perceptive and loving portrayal of country people in the United States.  It is refreshing to see that culture portrayed as something other than gaggles of yahoos.  The Apostle focuses on the community spirit of the church, and thereby shatters some of the mystery of its appeal in a culture as self-centered as our own.  There are no saints in this story, just a protagonist and his supporters trying to make sense of a country in which there is little love and way too much usury.  The film is harsh on a number of levels, very no-nonsense though drawn out at various moments. But it's real, and that's more than can be said for ninety per cent of what passes for films about U.S. culture these days. It's said by some folks that Robert Duvall has been trying to make this film for a lot of years, and there are parts of The Apostle that contain faint echoes of his 1983 project Tender Mercies. It hardly matters, since both are interesting films for different reasons.  Some day we'll see Robert Duvall as the vast repository of Americana he really is, until then, The Apostle is one of the best testimonies to his strengths that I know of. Can I get a witness? "},{"Title":"Fascinating Character Study","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"36 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You can't help but being mesmerized by Robert Duvall in the title role.  He must of seen a lot of southern preachers as he grew up, because he wrote this as well and the role suited him to a tee.The supporting cast is fine, with Rick Dial and John Beasley getting kudos for their work, but the movie is first and foremost about The Apostle.  If you like Robert Duvall as an actor, you will like this movie.  His attention to detail in his roles is well known.  He brings quirks and nuances to help flesh out his characters, and this role is no different.The Apostle is a flawed man who can lift others up, but has trouble lifting himself up.  And that contradiction is what gives this movie its flavor.  All-in-all, a fine movie. "},{"Title":"SUPERB!","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Superior acting and a plot based on realism make this a classic movie of actual southern life ... a life that I experienced as a child and adolescent.  Duvall's evangelist portrayal is not only convincing but eerie in the way it so fully represents many southern ministers of the gospel ... be they true believers or be they charlatans.  I can't help but wonder if the cast was comprised of local folks ... or at least folks reared in the south ... rather than professional actors.  They all did an excellent job contributing to the realism of this movie.  I almost always enjoy a movie that tells it like it is ... and sofar, this is one of the most enjoyable I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare would have borrowed this storyline","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film kept me thinking for days afterwards.  A highly emotionally charged film, The Apostle is essentially a one-man tour de force for Duvall with an ensemble supporting cast.  Duvall's performance was so convincing that had he performed this role live I'm sure he would have moved the whole audience to tears.I resisted seeing this film at first expecting that it would be the usual tired, antireligious stereotype that late twentieth century script writers revel in.  But The Apostle does not blindly follow any stereotypes.  The premise is plausible and the realistic character portrayals give the viewer the feeling that they are right there in the story.  This is a riveting tragic tale of a very flawed man who has the gift of inspiring others to better and greater things.  Had Shakespeare been around today, he would have borrowed this storyline, but I doubt he could have done a better job.It is a cautionary tale for anyone in a position of leadership.  Somehow, despite the tragedy framing this story, I found it very uplifting.  If you like a film with a message that prompts you to think, then see this movie.   "},{"Title":"True to Life","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My husband and I have loved this movie since we saw it the first four or five times.  After recently buying a DVD and getting The Apostle in DVD we found a new since of excitement.  The director's insights given have enriched the movie and given it deeper personality. Here is a few thoughts to help capture this wonderful creationEulis `Sonny' Dewey is a Southern Pentecostal Holiness Evangelist and Preacher from Texas living a seemingly happy life with his wife Jessie and his two `beauties' (children).  Suddenly his flashy, hyped world comes apart Jessie is having an affair with youth minister Horace.  Sonny gets drunk, enraged and hits Horace with a baseball bat, putting him into a coma in which he later dies.  Sonny escapes town, takes a new name, `The Apostle E.F.', and goes to Louisiana.  He starts to work as a mechanic for local radio station owner, Elmo, and Elmo lets him preach on the radio.  E.F. starts to preach everywhere on the radio, on the streets, and with his new friend, Reverend Blackwell, he starts a campaign to renovate an old church. Along the way he wants to have an affair with Elmo's secretary `Toosie,' and all the time he is preaching, he knows his time is running out.  His past sins are catching up with him and so is the law.The character of Sonny is developed in every scene.  Each scene reveals another complex part of Sonny's character.  One scene will show his humility and the next shows his pride.  These contradictions of, sanctification versus earthiness, generosity versus possessiveness, and open affability versus anger are developed to show the complexity in Sonny's character. Robert Duvall's sense of evil is simple and forgiving (things most all people deal with).  Robert Duvall constantly explores how good a human can be and how much good he can do when `sold out' to God.  His personal communication scenes with Jesus make his character seem vulnerable, open, and honest.The Apostle is set in a Southern, God Fearing, Right Wing, Conservative, setting.  Even though Sonny has had a `womanizing' problem in the past, the morality is certainly conveyed as an absolute and conservative religious morality.  This is a community of a small group that belongs to Jesus and Sonny's `little church'.  Since the Southern Pentecostal Church, containing both Blacks and Whites together is, not a stereotype, The Apostle is developing new territory in genre definition.  The ideas of feminism or gay liberation are hardly understood in this rural religious Southern setting. Morality and fidelity are high on their social standards.  However, overeating and gluttony are accepted weaknesses.  Getting drunk is one weakness that most of the men have had in their younger rebellious days.The charismatic, convincing, conniving, and calculating Sonny describes a most entertaining and flawed `Man of God'.  The theme of an uneasy co-existence of the holy part of Sonny, with his flesh, is brought to film for the first time.  The protagonist Sonny is the most authentic portrayal of a Southern Pentecostal Holiness Evangelist/Preacher with almost every other word being, `Praise the Lord,' `Hallelujah', `Amen,' `Thank you, Jesus,' which all come from his heart.The other (earthly) side of Sonny is aptly convincing.  Earthy examples are his description of his womanizing to his wife, his drunken fight, (where he strikes his wife's lover with a baseball bat), and his cruelly dragging his wife off the ball field by her hair, and showing his obvious drunkenness, anger and cruelty when he blew up.  Another subtle example is when he is doing his charismatic preaching on the radio, while the secretary is watching his intensity, and he follows it by preaching to her, (meanwhile, there is this calculating sales pitch with sexual sub-text between the two people).A subtle but revealing example of Sonny's character is shown by Duvall's acting in two `sales-like, asking for the order' scenes.  The first scene takes place where Sonny and the secretary have had several encounters and Sonny is trying to get into her life, house, and bedroom.  After a couple of hot intense smothering kisses, Sonny keeps saying, `Come on now,' for his closing `pitch', to which she keeps answering, `Next time'.  The other is in the closing scenes of the movie inside the `One Way Road to Heaven' church. Sonny and members are having an `altar call', and have been singing, `Softly and Tenderly Jesus is Calling', and as a final plea to a parishioner to accept Jesus into his life, Sonny keeps using his sales phrase `Come on now!'  Even though the words are previously used for his earthly desires, in this scene he captures his passion to perfection and his tears are genuine as he pleads with all his heart.In my mind, I can describe Robert Duvall's Academy Award deserving character acting as a poignant, perplexing, portrayal of a paradoxical, problematic, passionate, preacher.  Even though I could also choose Jack Nicholson's role in `As Good As It Gets'(who won the Oscar), the depth and breadth of Nicholson's acting don't measure up to the job done by probably America's greatest actor, Robert Duvall.  I believe this technique of documentary style filmmaking places the burden of carrying the movie on the acting and solely on Robert Duvall's Academy Award winning shoulders, and he delivers "},{"Title":"Courageous Story of Redemption","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I will always admire Robert Duvall for all the personal effort he put into making this film. As a church worker who is a moderate/liberal Christian, there are few other movies like it out there. It presents a pastor who is clearly flawed and sinful, as all of us are. However, it also presents someone who simply wants to serve the Lord and help people, whether they are poor, black or prisoners. The filming locations and use of real pastors give the movie an extremely authentic feel. Great music as well! Highly recommended movie with great acting, a story that makes you think and a balanced portrayal of evangelical Christianity. "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duvall did an excellent job bringing this film to life. The other 'actors' in the film also contribute to give The Apostle a realistic warmth rarely achieved in mainstream films. I refer to the cast as 'actors' because aside from numerous character actors, Duvall being one of the greatest, the film is inhabited by non-actors. In other words, the people in church, from the Holiness preachers to the warm small-town folk, are real people, not trained in acting. Duvall's story is engaging and beautiful in the way it shows the flaws amid great talent in a man who chooses for himself the calling of Apostle. I love this film, the accurate portrayal of some aspects of southern U.S. life and culture, and especially Duvall's performance.  "},{"Title":"Amen!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle is a gripping film on a most unpromising subject matter. The film has none of the obvious flash of movies such as Elmer Gantry and The Rainmaker which covered some of the same territory. The Apostle is based on straightforward storytelling, great character development and nice, gentle pacing - but with a strong kick.Robert Duvall, one of the best actors of the last thirty years, gives a powerful performance as the preacher driven by his inner demons - and gods. Over the years, we've seen preachers played by actors ranging from Burt Lancaster to Steve Martin but Robert Duvall comes up with a truly individual and original interpretation. What makes the character Sonny stand out is that he is so real! Ranging from his most charismatic (doing a Joe Dolan impersonation?) to his most personal, one feels that Sonny (the apostle EF) is real, believes what he is doing is real and is confident in his destiny - no matter how odd or quirky he appears at times.The film is character driven with a good sprinkling of incidents throughout. Story points introduced early on and developed before half way give the film a strong feel of The Fugitive, the TV series - laid back, story based but with the undercurrent of a ticking bomb under the table (Alfred Hitchcock).Minor quibbles Miranda Richardson's character is a little too young for Robert Duvall's. June Carter Cash, both the actress and the character, seem under utilised. And at times it is possible to see the joins. The version I saw on video appears to be shorter than that shown originally in the US cinema. This pruning may account for some of these minor points.Overall, The Apostle is highly recommended. Filmgoers without a strong interest in religious matters should find the characters, their treatment and the landscape in which they operate fascinating. Most people of a religious disposition should have little difficulty with the film as a film though they may not always like what they see from a religious viewpoint. 8.75.Amen! "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'The Apostle'","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although I have mixed emotions about this film, I have always enjoyed watching it and find it utterly fascinating.This is a powerful story of a very flawed-but very sincere Pentecostal preacher from Texas who flees after slugging his adulterous wife's lover with a baseball bat, killing him, as it turns out. Sonny (Robert Duvall), winds up starting a rural church from scratch in a small town in Louisiana, and is eventually discovered and sent back to Texas to jail.Duvall gives a tremendous acting performance in here, one of the best I've seen on film. He dominates the picture from start-to-finish. There are some good messages in here, including the one that you reap what you sow, and accepting that even when it's bad news and you wind up paying for your sins.Speaking of that, the bad news about this film is yet another portrayal of a minister who acts very un-minister-like. Here's a preacher who carries a pistol, slugs a man with a baseball bat, runs away from the scene and his family, and later settles a dispute with his fists and makes sexual advances to a woman.I don't know ANY minister (or priest) who would do these things - especially all of them! - but it makes for a good story, film-wise. Another horrible message was seeing the minister's wife (played by Farrah Fawcett) having an affair with the youth minister! I mean, all of this is ridiculous. To those anti-church readers out there, I'm sorry but this is not the way it is, by any means.Yet, despite all that, this is not your typical anti-Christian film ,which is why no major studio would fund this movie. Duvall had to put his own money into this. Hollywood didn't want to back a film in which people being saved means a lot, where people unashamedly praise the Lord, and are converted. In this film are several touching conversions, including a dramatic one with Billy Bob Thornton, of all people! Hey, with God all things are possible. Many of the people in this movie were not actors, either, but real ministers. Also shown are supporting characters who are all sincere, good people who help The Apostle E.F. (Duvall) build the church and help make it grow.In the end, despite all his flaws, Duvall's character turns out to be one of a sincere evangelist who truly loves God and wants to do His work wherever and whenever, even on a chain gang as the ending credits attest.The more I watch this movie, the more I appreciate the cinematography in here. I enjoyed the music, too. This is a strange film full of good and bad people and their actions and a movie, I suspect, people would either love or hate. I loved it. "}{"Title":"I'll Fly Away","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a film with genuine heart and soul. It's got depth of characterization seldom found in Hollywood films. Robert Duvall gives a great performance as the sincere but flawed Pentecostal preacher, Sonny Dewey. After his marriage turns sour, followed by a spontaneous act of violence with a baseball bat, Sonny flees his home in Texas and ends up in the South Louisiana bayou country. Here, he changes his name to The Apostle E.F. With the help of a local Black preacher, The Apostle starts a new church, called the One Way Road To Heaven Temple, a tiny wooden building out in the middle of nowhere.As good as Duvall is in his performance, reinforced by a brilliant performance from Miranda Richardson in a support role, the film's non-actors, local people brought in to add authenticity to the setting, are even more convincing. No Central Casting actors could ever give the depth of characterization that these local people bring to the story. Sister Johnson, in her pink Sunday-go-to-meetin' outfit, and Sister Delilah are just terrific, as is Rick Dial, as Elmo, the local radio station host who gives The Apostle a chance to evangelize.And whether he's preaching on radio or directly to a church congregation, The Apostle, with deep emotional conviction, shouts out his pronouncements using literal verbal imagery consistent with a literal interpretation of the Bible holy ghost preaching machine; a holy ghost explosion; we're going to short circuit the devil. The congregation sequences are largely improvisational, built on real emotion and feeling from real people; nothing canned here; remarkably genuine.The film's weakness is the contrived plot that revolves around Sonny's marriage. His wife is played by Farrah Fawcett, a usually fine actress, who seems miscast here. In addition, some of the scenes, especially in the first half, could have been edited out.You can't have a film about Pentecostal preaching without gospel music. And in The Apostle, the hymns are old, traditional Bible-belt favorites I Love To Tell The Story, Softly And Tenderly, and I'll Fly Away. The film's subject matter, largely implied about death, the heartfelt hymns, and the film's lighting combine to render a general tone of sadness and depression, although laughter and joy find their ways into the story, as well.Despite a hokey, contrived plot, The Apostle is mesmerizing in its authenticity of those in the American South who abide by the Pentecostal faith. Some viewers may find all the shouting and foot stomping off-putting. But it is genuine. In addition to being entertaining for the most part, the film will be a real eye opener for some viewers. "},{"Title":"Duvall's finest two hours","Date":"22 August 1998","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Writer, director, actor Duvall proves he has it all and with remarkable poise.  Preacher E.F. may appear to be over-the-top  but he's the most human portrayal I've seen in many years.  With this film, Duvall sets himself head and shoulders above the other actors of his generation. "},{"Title":"Casting Oscars!","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is another powerful exhibit in the case for why there *should* be an Oscar category for Best Casting.Apart from Mr. Duvall's identifying acting, so rightly hailed elsewhere on this forum, what truly makes this film stand out as so genuine, so founded, so real, is the casting.Take the radio guy, right down to his supermarket-style glasses. Take the Rev. Blackwell, fighting to hold back his bursting enthusiasm for Jesus so as not to have another heart attack. Take the talkative lady who almost clashes with the fat woman with twins - haven't we seen them both in our churches? Take the Church Board representatives at the beginning of the film, I feel like I know a few like them! Take the elderly gentleman with the trumpet, struggling to play but doing it from his heart, I've seen it. And in the midst of it, enter mega-star Billy Bob Thornton - blending into the mix just like one of the rest. Bottom line is, there is simply not one character that doesn't come across as believable simply by *being* there, even before you see them act.Academy, awake, let there be a Casting Category now. "},{"Title":"A Stunningly Brilliant Performance By Robert Duvall","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have always appreciated Robert Duvall as an actor, but everything he's ever done pales in comparison to his performance as The Apostle E.F. in this movie. Duvall carried this from beginning to end. The rest of the cast was good, but this belonged to Duvall. He perfectly captured the essence of a charismatic, fundamentalist holiness-type preacher, and was totally convincing in the role. There are a lot of issues that come through in this movie. One is the ease with which a charismatic (in both the secular and spiritual sense) charlatan can capture the minds and souls of those around him. Having said that, E.F. is a more complicated character than that. Yes, he was charismatic and yes he could manipulate, but the character (to me at least) had a fundamental integrity to him. He was sincere in what he was doing. He loved Jesus; he loved the church; he loved the people in the church. I bought into that - I believed it. And, yes, he was a sinner - he was a womanizer who then went on - in a fit of anger - to kill the man for whom his wife had left him. Terrible things, but they came across as human rather than hypocritical. Strangely, even the fact the E.F. was a murderer didn't seem to take away from his fundamental decency. On the run after committing the murder, he establishes a new church in a small town in Louisiana and again he captures people's hearts and turns them toward God, and even at the end of the movie, in a prison chain gang, he captures the hearts of the other prisoners and turns them toward God - and I never doubted that he was wanting to do that. He wasn't doing this to glorify himself; he was doing it for what he perceived to be the glory of God. And I believed that.As a very mainline Christian pastor who has some suspicion of charismatic preachers, it wasn't easy to convince me of E.F.'s sincerity - but Duvall did. That was the brilliance not only of his performance but of the movie as a whole. Whether in personal repentance or in leading someone through a conversion experience, E.F. was real. Thank you to Robert Duvall for this powerful performance.The movie had flaws. For the first few minutes I was confused about the relationships here. Maybe I didn't pay enough attention, but I honestly thought E.F.'s mother was his wife and that Farrah Fawcett was playing his daughter and the kids were his grandchildren. I was thrown a bit when Fawcett turned out to be playing his wife who had left him and taken his children away from him. I also thought that the play-by-play radio commentary from the church picnic of the bigot's conversion experience was just downright silly. But there weren't many weaknesses. Duvall's performance, the essential dignity he provided the character with and the overall realism of the film makes this a must-see! "},{"Title":"Sonny (DuVall) is a modern day King David.","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First DuVall's performance and that of the other actors in this film were 100% on point. Hollywood's portrayal of Christianity is always done in a way that makes anyone who calls themselves a Christian look like dumb and/or wacko, the style of Christianity shown in this film would have been such a large target of this lopsided Hollywood viewpoint. BUT instead DuVall took great pains to portray these in a most realistic way. Without making fun or a mockery of this worship style.Second The message in this story is that Christians are not perfect but forgiven. Some of you may not understand that, given the candy coated image of what a Christian is. We all hate to show our weakness and Christians have it even harder when they try to pretend that they have no faults. The truth is we all fail in our attempt to be what God ask of us. But the true Christian seeks to do God's will and to follow his teachings. When we fail we are sorrowful and ask for help and forgiveness. Sonny mirrors the biblical King David. David was a man after God's own heart, however David was far from perfect. He committed Adultery and killed the woman's husband to cover it up. He did many things that were not right but yet his heart was always to follow God. There are many people who try to follow God but are discouraged buy failure and unfortunately in many cases get no support from the church in helping them back on the right track. These people turn there backs on God and the church, most never to return. This is a good movie for Christians who are sometimes way to full of themselves to see what they have become. I know many Christians who have a hart for the appearance of Christian perfection but have no heart for doing what God ask of them. I can only pray that they see the difference before it is to late. For those of you who may not call yourselves Christian, Try to understand the heart of Sonny. Despite some of his actions Sonny has a heart for God. Also understand that true Christianity is a relationship with God and not just a bunch of rules. When you truly love someone you want to do what pleases them. You may not always succeed but it is your number one desire. And this is what this movie is about. "},{"Title":"Vast....Duvall strikes gold with 'Sonny'","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Written and directed by Roberty Duvall, I saw on entertainment T.V. in an interview that Robert even put millions of his own dollars into the 'making' of this. Propelling, is just the intro to this superbly crafted, story of doing the 'Gospel' your way. This shows me, many with good intentions can go almost terminally wrong. I was sitting watching this on cable at the hotel, when my wife at that time, would not let me go out with her that morning on her route in Sierra Vista. It wasn't that I would get in the way of her talking to the doctors on her pharmaceutical rounds, due to the fact that she had already ask me to go with her a couple times before and I knew how things shake out with it, it was that she was having an affair with a co-worker and needed to give him a private long distance call, from a pay phone. At any rate, this was probably one of the most upending and unsettling and touching films I had seen in years. It was good that I stayed and watch Duvall's story of betrayal and violence. I came to a better grip with the circumstances that I was in, believe it or not. When he becomes E.F. the Apostle, you can see he seems starting to come apart, just before it happens. There is a much mis-gilded thought life that he has when he boldly steps up and decides that it's better to blame God than to 'take responsibility' for his very own misconduct and rage trouble. Farrah Fawcett provides an aging but provocative ex-wife that can't take the 'jambing' effect that Sonny seems to boldly posses. I.e. the baseball field assault on his ex's new man. It seems that at the end of the assault he just disconnected and said let's go home now. As if whatever he does, even when totally wrong, he can justify to himself despite the damaged inflicted on anything, or anyone else that is around him then. Then there is the scene at the church with Billy bob's character and they quickly end up in a brawl on the side of the church, while the deacons look on. But that was, what that character of Billy-Bob's needed to respect a man of God. A strong man. A wimp couldn't have probably reached him in the condition he was in right there.I have a lot of respect for Robert Duvall for taking and making something that wouldn't get muddled by Hollywood and it's sense of God. It was different. I got quite a large helping of calm and understanding after my wife had departed our life together. I think I learned even more about human nature and intentions, motives etc. It shows that even when people mess it up, there is always something on a sub-textual level, it's not always just 'Face value'. I am not a Billy Bob fan by the way, but even his character, that came to destroy Sonny's church, and ended up changing his own life in that process. Remember as well, even if he can 'justify' his own bad behavior, God did not let him go on and on, he had to be brought to 'Justice' himself. You can mock God but only for a little while. This film, definitely touched me and caused me to think deeper.Thanks, IMDb.com.... I recommend this to those with discernment about life and people and especially the Bible. (*****) "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall at his best","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the only film I have given a 10 on this site. I find this movie fascinating and brilliantly portrayed by Mr. Duvall. He deserved an Oscar for this performance. Living in Texas (where the first part of the film is set) I know that the preaching he does in this movie seems as real as a Texas outdoor revival! He is a troubled man to be sure, but his character lifts all of us up with each step of the way in the movie. Farrah Fawcett plays a good part opposite him as his wife and the movie seems to split apart in the middle then pulls itself right back together again as Duvall commands the part. I can watch this over and over and still find parts which I love. It is like reading a spiritual book over and over and finding something better about it. I have recommended this to my friends to watch as I have only seen it this year (2006). A fine character study of a flawed man and his obsession with religion at any cost. Be sure to catch it. Mark Lockwood Lubbock Tx. "},{"Title":"An Honest Film of Flawed Faith","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Apostle is a wonderfully constructed work that deals with a few intense issues including faith and the Christian's relationship with God. The director uses small scenes and sequences to illustrate how Sonny lives out his faith and to help the viewer experience Sonny's life more fully. For instance, on his way to Louisiana Sonny walks past a bar to catch a bus. Without hesitation he enters the bar and emerges moments later with a slightly inebriated man, telling him that he does not have to go in there anymore. When on his journey, Sonny relies so completely on faith that he actually stops in the middle of a crossroads and kneels to pray, asking God to direct him. God does not disappoint. Though The Apostle is a work of fiction, it does a great job of presenting faith that is shunned by the world and continuously proved by God. When Sonny stops to pray at a car-crash, it appears that the wife is probably dead and the husband is in fairly critical condition. Sonny prays with them despite an officer's orders and drives away. As Sonny is leaving, the viewer sees the wife's hand grip her husbands, presumably showing God's work in the situation; Sonny's reply Momma, we made news in heaven today. Duvall's film also deals greatly with the humanity of Christians. Though Sonny is a murderer and a womanizer, God still chooses to use him. One cannot help but to think of Abraham being called and leaving his idols behind. Some say that art imitates life, while others argue that life imitates art. Whichever is true in the end, the Apostle paints a picture of beautifully honest and flawed faith; a picture that everyone can learn from, no matter where they walk. "},{"Title":"Duvall's ability to portray his character with his dynamic voice and strong appearance allows his performance to transcend his film.","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duvall (`Gods And Generals') has long been known as one of America's finest actors. His ability to portray characters with his dynamic voice and strong appearance allows his performances to transcend the films that he acts in. In his most ambitious project, `The Apostle,' in which he directs, is a screenwriter, acts and is an executive producer, Duvall finds himself in uncharted movie territory as a preacher whose unhealthy obsession with God and his church leads to his own downfall. Although the film incorporates superb performances and great direction, it does suffer from being too lengthy and drawn out.  	`The Apostle' is the story of Eulis `Sonny' Dewey (Duvall) who parish is taken away from him when his adulteress wife Jessie (Farrah Fawcett) decides to leave him and take their children away for a younger preacher in the same parish. As such, Eulis, under the influence of alcohol and his own convictions attacks Jessie's beau, putting him in a coma that eventually leads to his own death. Eulis leaves town and decides to start his life anew. Finding a small village with a broken down church, he sets up a new congregation and develops followers who listen to his radio program as he appears as the Apostle E.F. 	The one problem with `The Apostle' is the lengthy church scenes. It seems as if Duvall just goes around and around again with the same things to say over and over. Although this could work in reality if preaching to different congregations, to a movie audience, it's not necessary to continuously drag them through the same scenes, in a different church. After all, there are only so many times in a two-hour film that we can bare to hear &#145;praise Jesus.' However, it does show the zealous nature of the character of Eulis and his deep affinity to the church.  	The performances in `The Apostle' were outstanding. Duvall comes off as both enlightening through his sermons and utterly terrifying through his anger towards his wife, her boyfriend, and to an unruly member of society (Billy Bob Thornton) who doesn't want the Apostle E.F.'s church around. Fawcett's character as Jessie, Eulis's much younger wife, is well portrayed, however, it's arguable that she is underused in the film. The performances of Miranda Richardson (`The Hours'), John Beasley (`The Sum of All Fears') and Billy Bob Thornton (`Bandits') were excellent, as well.	Duvall's direction of the film was wonderful. It's easy to grasp that `The Apostle' was his personal masterpiece that he'd been trying to craft for several years. One element of avoiding conventional cinematography was used that added an artistic sense to the feature in which Eulis baptizes himself to absolve himself of his sins. The camera was used in slow motion at the end of the scene with the morning sun light behind Duvall as he wades in a river, giving him a mysterious appearance. 		 	In the end, the film does work and is highly recommendable, regardless of its prolonged ceremonial scenes that just seem to make the film drag, rather than flow. ***  "},{"Title":"Hallelujah Brother!","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie and strongly recommended people in my own ministry to rent the video. From the very beginning you can tell this was not a Hollywood movie with the stereotypical preacher. It seems in the past, either the minister or priest is depicted as either the saintly sinless man (i.e. Father Flanagan in Boys Town) or as some perverse twisted child molester or monster. This simply portrays a man who loves God and His people with a pure heart but is a human being, subject to fall and make mistakes the same as anyone else. I especially enjoyed the flavor the extras gave the movie, as you could tell they were real people and not actors. The sound track to this movie was an added delight featuring a fine taste of Southern Gospel for us who have not been exposed to this kind of music too much. Put an Amen on it brother and give it a hearty hand clap for the Lord!  ) "}{"Title":"Preach the Gospel if necessary, use words","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched the Apostle two nights ago, and I rented it partially out of guilt. I saw a film called The Ice Harvest that made me realize I wanted something a bit more inspiring, more wholesome, more spiritually focused in film. The Ice Harvest strangely enough also has Billy Bob Thornton along with John Cusack as some of the most profane and greedy but not nearly the most messed up characters in a rural Kansas town. Sex, violence, the whole mix, and what's worse, a sloppy ending. So, I rented this because I wanted to be uplifted.The Apostle often delivers a brand of Southern comfort, simplicity and humanity that's quite refreshing without being naive I thought it was an important and sobering note that the old man who gives Duvall a tent also sleeps with his rifle on his chest watching him. That combination is very human and very American we live at once in love and fear of each other very often.Another wonderful thing about this film is it is race-conscious but very much about integration, all God's children like Duvall says. I love the moment when Blackwell tells Duvall how black he sounds on the radio for a white man. As for being inspired spiritually, I almost cried when Duvall prayed over Billy Bob, Troublemaker. As a matter of fact, I think that moment is the spiritual high point of the film, the sinner converting another sinner and saving a church. If we had immediately seen the police coming for Duvall after that, it would have served as a great coda to reminds us that within sinners like Billy, there are saints/good men, and within apostles like Duvall, there are sinners.None of us are as pure as the driven snow, but none of our souls are so black that they can't be redeemed. That's one of the great things about CRASH that is a film that shows both corruption of the decent and the unexpected decency lying within the corrupt.The main problem with Apostle, like Ice Harvest oddly enough, comes down to a sloppy ending. (SPOILER) Duvall draws it out for far too long with the sermon once the police have arrived, it needs to come to a close. Would an officer wait that long to arrest a man for first degree murder? Duvall's rally cry of Get Behind Me Satan is quite effective, but it drags on for ten minutes. Finally, Sammy's acceptance of Jesus, given what has already happened to Billy Bob, lacks the punch it should have.It brings me back to an eerie feeling that I got throughout the movie this particular branch of Christianity that the Apostle is representing seems to shout a whole lot what really shouldn't need that kind of volume. I was taught a year or so ago the phrase Preach the gospel at all times when necessary, use words. It means that it's in our actions that we show our love not just in our words, and it's not just love for other Christians, but for non-Christians as well. And we don't just gather together and praise God so that we may be saved, but we continually strive to be closer to God and bring others closer to God and further from the devil and to CREATING RECONCILIATION AND JUSTICE in the world, working alongside the devilish as well as the saintly.Remember that scene where Duvall drags the guy out of the bar? It reminds me that there are those who say there's the world of the devil, and the world of God and we should steer clear of the former. However, I think it's a world we need to engage and learn about we need to be in those bars, not just dragging men out, but learning why they're in. We need to figure out about why men really go to strip clubs, why women work there, WHY women abort their children, WHY teens have premarital sex, WHY divorce occurs, and not just dismiss them as things of Satan to be steered clear of. Good fences do not make good Christians.Now if the worlds of The Apostle and The Ice Harvest could be combined, that would be a very powerful movie about Jesus in the real world. I will say though that the last bit of the Apostle (SPOILER) is a great reminder of Duvall's power he continues to preach even as a prisoner on a chain gang. Now THAT is Holy Ghost Power. Amen. Continue to seek Him, praise Him, serve Him, and love Him! "},{"Title":"We are small but powerful","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Apostle is an amazing film. It takes the subject of faith, within the specific realm of the Pentecostal church, and gives it the grime and grit of humanity. It does not make the faithful out to be angels nor does it portray the non-believers as demons. It takes the main teaching of the Christian faith, that we are all sinners yet through Jesus Christ we are all forgiven, and paints an eloquent story of a real man's faith and how difficult it can be to believe so powerfully. Bobby Duvall is spectacular in a role that must have been important to him. All the technical aspects of the film follow in the footsteps of the fantastic script. The cinematography is beautiful as are the rich southern locations. The actors that comprise the congregation are all so full of life that it makes one wonder if they are acting at all. The opening scene where Sonny, Mr. Duvall's character, stops at the scene of an accident to be with a dying man is sublime. I highly recommend this film especially for anyone of any faith that appreciates the power of faith and spirituality. "},{"Title":"Duvall's Greatest Role","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie should be seen by every person who believes him or herself to be an enlightened intellectual. It functions to assist the viewer in truly understanding not only the culture pervading the southern United States, but also compels the self exploration necessary for achieving an awareness of one's inner personality. Duvall presents an undeniable and powerful image not only of a man torn, but of a man simultaneously driven and assured. One need not be deeply religious to revel, if in nothing else, the extraordinary acting talents of this man. Duvall's angry conversation with God in his bedroom, alone, is a case study in his exceptional acting ability, and the emotion and tenderness which characterizes Christianity's best features is present throughout. Frequently I found myself watching a particular scene with my jaw dropped, silently admiring everything this role meant to Duvall, and marveling in the magnificence of its execution. The movie is, and I've no doubt will remain, a lifetime favorite of mine. It represents what movies should, occasionally at least, be events, events that make you think, think about yourself, think your place in the world, and the powerful and meaningful institutions which so often influence our lives. "},{"Title":"fascinating","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" the performance of Robert Duvall. the atmosphere of South. the simple and convincing story. and the admirable manner to use different pieces for a generous picture. it is not exactly a religious film. only a movie about a fight out of ordinary definitions. without limits. and with the hope of conquest of peace. a film like a battle. for the perfect note who defines each new nuance. for the new beginning. for references to literary themes and to South America culture. for the each scene who preserves not only the missionary's fever or passion but the wise way to give it to the viewer. Robert Duvall is, at the first sigh, not the best choice for the lead role. but, step by step, he becomes the apostle. in a fascinating manner. and the final message seems be - it is not just a movie. it is a hard, serious work who has not the status of answer but question. and the result is real impressive. "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall rises and falls as an apostle of the Lord","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is quite a movie. It's very original. It's a real triumph for Robert Duvall. If you want to get a taste of southern churchgoing and religion in the unique style that is lively and participative, with preachers that are like entertainers, that you can catch on some cable channels, this movie has plenty of it. More than enough. It has a story too, of one man's religiosity versus his earthly passions. Along the way, meet the folks who attend his church. And a good part of the story shows how he builds up a church, how he gains the participation of those who join him in its worship and activities. This movie has a lot of soul. Duvall breathed a lot of life into it and brought it to life. This picture is a 2 hour trip into that world. It has some moving moments in which several men undergo conversion to Jesus. Duvall's character is a remarkable man with energy, spirit, and a good heart, 100% committed to his faith. He's also a promoter and religion entrepreneur. And he has a temper, jealousy and a failed marriage. He's not above using his fists or bashing someone, and that spells trouble for him.Good movie. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Film, Regardless of One's Faith Perspective","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When this movie came out in 1997, I was a young man who had just found his way into church for the first time in my adult life. I specifically was someone who had always been turned off to church and faith because I had grown up in a place where often times churches were charismatic, a style that never interested me very much. When I was nineteen I started attending a Presbyterian church that was a whole different atmosphere than what I had always known. The service was very structured and organized, and a long story short I found myself at home in a place with a much more reserved style of worship experience.But with that going on in my personal life at the time, it made it difficult for me to want to see The Apostle, a film that to me looked like it was promoting the style of religion that I had struggled with all my life. So I never saw the film when it was in theaters or while it was still popular.Fast forward to 2014, and I've matured a fair bit. I still have my own preferences about church and religion, but I am not as judgmental as I once was. And so with that in mind, I sat down to watch this film on Netflix a couple of weeks ago.What I found in The Apostle was a delightful film, one that is evangelical in its own way, and one that certainly does portray the charismatic church style that I struggled with so much in my youth. But whereas in 1997 I might have had a visceral reaction to that, in 2014 I was able to sit down and watch the film and view it as art. And boy am I glad that I did.Robert Duvall gives a dynamic performance in this movie. It's impossible to see him as himself, because he completely becomes the character. As the movie progresses Duvall has several extended scenes where he's preaching in church, and the performance is amazing. Regardless of whether one appreciates the Christian faith or the charismatic movement, Duvall makes the viewer believe that he is the preacher. It's a bit eerie in a sense, and some might find it uncomfortable given the subject matter--but then you realize that this is the same guy from The Godfather movies, and that's when it hits you that this is an amazing feat of acting in a well made film.All that said, The Apostle may be a bit foreign and hard to watch for some people who have an averse reaction to matters of faith or who are uncomfortable with Christianity. But even those folks should be able to appreciate the film for its artistic expression, if they can just get past the religious element (which is of course the dominant theme of the film).If you are able to appreciate the film, either as a work of art or as an evangelical film in its own right, then you may agree that it deserves a high rating. Thus my 9/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Character study of a flawed preacher","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Apostle (1997) is a film that I've appreciated more as I've gotten older. Writer/director Robert Duvall had to make it independently because studios didn't want to touch the material. The story's a character study of a Southern Pentecostal preacher, Sonny (Duvall), whose wife wants to leave him due to his infidelities (Farrah Fawcett). She now has a relationship with the youth minister and they're taking over the mega-church in the Dallas suburbs. Sonny reacts foolishly and is forced into exile. He changes his name and goes into the backwaters of Louisiana to eventually start a rural church that attracts the poor. Wherever Sonny goes, he can't seem to part with his calling and anointing -- to lead people to the LORD and motivate believers.If you can't handle Pentecostalism and all that goes with it -- hyper praise & worship, charismatic gifts, evangelism and prayer -- I suggest staying far away from The Apostle. I also suggest you stay away if you're not into seeing depictions of Southern poverty or nigh-poverty since large portions of the film take place in this environment.Duvall's idea was to do a modern take on the King David tragedy -- a man of God who falls into adultery and, then, possibly murder, albeit unintentional. Even so, Duvall stated in a 2010 interview that Sonny's sins aren't half as bad as David's since there's a huge difference between involuntary manslaughter and outright (indirect) murder.The Apostle is the greatest kind of character study because it evokes strong opinions and discussions. Is Sonny a genuine but seriously flawed minister or just a phony who doesn't know it? Put another way, can a Christian be a man (or woman) after God's own heart and still commit serious sins? Does Sonny legitimately repent or does he evade repentance? Is the theology presented in the film shallow or heavy? Is resorting to righteous anger or corporeal punishment sometimes appropriate for the New Testamen believer or should Christians always be lovey-dovey doormats? FINAL WORD There's nothing like The Apostle in cinema. It's truly a unique film and it gets better with repeat viewings because a lot of what is conveyed is subtle and wordless. There's just the right amount of ambiguity that keeps the viewer guessing and the movie open to interpretation.GRADE A "},{"Title":"Duvall deserved an Oscar","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sonny Dewey (Robert Duvall) is the charismatic preacher of a fundamentalist Texas church, until his short temper gets him in serious trouble. He runs off to Louisiana, becomes part of a small community, and starts a new church where he brings hope and salvation to his loyal followers.Robert Duvall is a powerhouse; he wrote, directed, produced, and starred in this movie - and it's wonderful. He is so convincing as the southern evangelist that it really surprised me to hear him speak in his normal voice in the Extras. Sonny is completely devoted to saving people and spreading the Word, but we suspect he may have a violent and unsavory past, and that dichotomy keeps our eyes glued to Duvall at all times. As Sonny, he's driven, tireless, and simply inspired.While Duvall gets excellent performances out of many local, non-actors in small parts, there were several casting choices that didn't seem right to me Farrah Fawcett plays Sonny's wife and she's so recognizable as a former Angel and glamour girl that it was hard to buy her as a quiet, plain-Jane. June Carter Cash plays Sonny's mother although she is only two years older than Duvall - and looks it and that was distracting. And Billy Bob Thornton has a very small role as a troublemaker that was never developed; I kept expecting him to show up again and do something important and worthy of his stature.The term tour de force can certainly be applied to Duvall's performance; he is riveting, charismatic, and utterly believable. Interestingly, the story makes him neither a hero nor a villain; it is left up to the viewer to decide who exactly the Apostle is. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall Scorches","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is one compelling reason to see The Apostle, and that reason is Robert Duvall.Duvall directed himself in this story about an evangelist who embarks on a self-assigned mission to save souls when his own life goes wrong. Duvall gives a scorching, blistering performance in the title role, sinking deeply into his character until you feel like Duvall the actor no longer even exists. He also proves himself to be a competent director, even though that hasn't been a calling he's pursued subsequently.It's just criminal that Jack Nicholson beat Duvall for the 1997 Best Actor Award with a performance like the one he gives in As Good as It Gets. Grade A "},{"Title":"Better than expected .","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Duvall gives an extraordinary performance in an otherwise OK film. He plays a preacher who loses everything he holds dear and is forced to leave town and start over after putting his wife's lover in a coma. his journey really starts when he arrives in a small town and starts renovating an old church. time goes by and his congregation grows bigger while people's love for him grow stronger. but what can you do about the past catching up to you, no matter how god is on your side. the film is simplistic in it's storytelling but effective non the less. Duvall also shows he is a capable writer/director and proves he is more than just an actor. you can clearly see he's got his whole heart invested in this project. personally the preaching scenes got a little to much and my head hurt from all the hallelujahs and praise the lord lines being shouted every 5 seconds. granted i am an atheist. but i still found this film enjoyable despite it's shortcomings. "}{"Title":"An ASTONISHING film!","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've been a fan of Robert Duval for a lot of years now... in both movies and TV performances he's been a major force among American actors for decades. He's at his best when he plays complicated characters with many layers to their personalities, and he's shown that a dozen times.It seems like there isn't any kind of role that he can't handle; Bull Meecham in THE GREAT SANTINI was, until now, his masterpiece in my opinion, portraying the brash, natural born warrior along with the awkward, struggling man who doesn't know how to be a father and husband, clearly showed his greatness and mastery of his craft. As Hub in SECONDHAND LIONS, his portrayal of a crusty old Texan with an unbelievable past, a soft spot inside of him for a lost, lonely little boy, and a load of personal sorrow that would crush a lesser man, was magnificent.Completely out of left field comes Sonny, his most unexpected role.Who would have thought that hiding inside of this man was a completely believable Pentecostal preacher? Sonny is electrifying... a human dynamo of religious zeal that shares the body of a fatally flawed human being that contains the ingredients of his own destruction.Duval's greatness comes not from an ability to play a character like he's putting on a jacket; he literally BECOMES the character. And that transformation affects everyone around him. The church's congregation isn't a collection of actors playing a part, they REALLY ARE Sonny's congregation in a real church service. The collection of professional actors, real fundamentalist ministers, and local pick-up extras welded perfectly into a functioning unit, and real EMOTION comes roaring through loud and clear in the finished product.In the making of the film addendum on the laserdisk version of THE APOSTLE, the viewer catches Duval's enthusiasm for this project. I wish I could have been there for the filming of the film's final sequence... Duval struggling to give what is probably his greatest performance, at 300 AM in a little church out in the rural Louisiana countryside... all the while knowing that his crew was running out of film! He HAD to be speeding up his sermon to get it all in the can, keeping his congregation stoked up and giving Their best for the film. He was a man racing against the clock at a rate of 24 frames per second... but you'd never know it. Sonny's final sermon is a MASTERPIECE of on screen realism.We should be grateful to Robert Duval for this film... the film shows us a contrast of Americana. The slick, high energy, up to date church that Sonny loses is a direct, modern descendant of the small, simple rural church that he sets up in Bayou Boutte. That high power commercial church where we began the film is the direction where Pentacostal religion is going, while the small church Sonny puts together is a relic, disappearing swiftly into the past... and Duval has captured a small snapshot of that dying subculture on film for the future to see.Ten Stars all the way... a unique movie experience. "},{"Title":"Preaching to the uncoverted(seek out this southern thriller)","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Apostle - Robert Duvall plays a cuckold preacher on the run in this film that Duvall also wrote and directed.This is a riveting movie from the git-go- Duvall nails Sonny or the apostle EF perfectly in this flick- as a matter fact the whole movie plays note perfect- you get a real sense of what religion adds to the lives of many who have not much else to latch onto- Duvall's character is a combination of saint and sinner- he lives to preach but he is not able to turn the other cheek.Farah Fawcett,Billy Bob Thornton,June Carter Cash,Walter Goggins and others round out the cast- but this is Duvall's show and he is excellent. A "},{"Title":"a comment from a preacher's son...","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film rates as one of my all-time favorites for a number of reasons; it features Robert Duvall, June Carter Cash, Farrah Fawcett and Billy Joe Shaver (now who on this green earth would have ever imagined these four appearing together?); but what really cinches it for me is the absolute veracity of the character of the 'pastor'.Forget, for the moment, that the media stereotype of the evangelical preacher is that of a hardshelled, narrow-minded, right-wing bigot (in the form, say, of Pat Robertson), who has plenty of time to point out society's demons, but little time for the forgiveness that is often overlooked in the Gospel. Move away from that 'preacher' title and consider the 'pastor', which is the true role of Apostle E.F. Apostle E.F. came to town to build a church, to nurture it into growth, to protect it...and that he did. I use the term 'church' here in the Biblical sense; 'a body of believers', and not necessarily an edifice. E.F. didn't seek to build a church for his personal enrichment, but rather, he held down several odd jobs in order to pay his way while fulfilling his goal.This is seen in his tireless day-and-night efforts, his personal dealings with his congregants, his perfect willingness to accept anyone and everyone...but the scene that really grabbed me, made me go buy the DVD, watch it, pause it and replay over and over, was when the tough guy character (Billy Bob Thornton) is hauled off by E.F., who kicks the $#!+ out of him...because the tough guy was going to harm the church.I remember watching this scene once with my older son, who is a combat-hardened US Marine. He turned to me in amazement and said, Dad, that was Grandpa!. The truth is, in a time that is now fading into the past, a church's pastor would readily defend his church and his flock, physically, if necessary -- something that wasn't uncommon at all to see. I could go into pages and pages about my dad's dealings with destructive people, and how, sometimes even with a gun pointed at him, he always won.But I'll leave it with this comment This film demonstrates a clear fact of history the toughest men in America have been it's church's pastors. "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall as the Apostle","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie a few years after it came out. I am not a person that is too religious, but this movie touched me. Robert Duvall, who wrote produced, directed, and took the lead role in this film proved himself to be a true master of cinema. There is not one weak moment in this film. Duvall plays a minister whose world is shattered after a sad string of events. He commits a crime of passion, and runs from the law. While on the run Sonny, the name of the preacher comes across a new path. I don't know why this movie hit me so much, it just did. The movie is incredibly low budget. The driving force in this film is the acting, and the writing. There is not a week moment in this film. How it is Robert Duvall could come up with this movie is beyond me. He wrote, produced, starred and directed this film, and he did a superior job. This man was nominated for an Oscar, and he lost to Jack Nicholson, for as good as it gets. Nicholson did a fine job in his role, buy Duvall deserved the Oscar, he did better in his part. The movie is just so simple and innocent in a way. There is nothing too complicated to this movie it is just a simple story told in a brilliant manner. The simplicity of this film is overwhelming in a way, in an era of these incredibly bloated films, whether they are phony epics, or these silly teen films they always are too complicated, and many times pointless. But this movie, with a fraction of the budget of a huge Hollywood film manages to be much more entertaining and insightful than almost any Hollywood film. One thing that makes this film so interesting is the supporting cast. Robert Duvall has picked an excellent cast for his film, they look, act and make their parts out excellently. They contribute nicely to this effort and make it that much better. Billy Bob Thornton has a small part but it is powerful and excellent. His small part contributes a lot to this film.What also amazed me about this film is how it kept you guessing. (SPOILERS)At first you didn't know how legitimate Sonny was. You really couldn't tell if he was a con-man, or legitimately felt if he was good intentioned, and that was the mystery in the first half of the film. But that was the beauty of the film. I felt like he was always unintentional, but at first he was preaching to people that didn't need his support and guidance. But as his journey progressed he did exactly what he had to do, and gave guidance to those that needed it the most. I felt like at first Sonny had a very different view of his religion from the view he had at the end. I think at first he felt like God controlled everything, and everything in his life was to appease his savior. But as time went by, as tragedy struck him personally he became much less materialistic This movie is just excellent. I was told it was good, but not this good. It was a pleasure and a privilege to watch this film. I was taken so much by this movie, I almost cried at the end. I didn't know how it was going to end, and I was on the edge of my seat almost the whole time. This is an excellent film and I recommend it to almost anybody. For the record I did not like the Farrah Fawcett character was not cool to me. She did a good acting job but she was a real prick. I would have been p***ed at her too. I felt bad for him at first even if I didn't identify with him. Anyways this is a superior film, wonderfully emotional, delightfully energetic, excellently written, and directed by Robert Duvall and an all around excellent experience. I recommend it highly.  "},{"Title":"SPOILERS    Can I get an Amen!","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most realistic portrayals of the Evangelical Church that I've seen and that's probably because Robert Duvall used real people to play most of the roles. I found myself following his sermons with keen interest and wanting more.  I was in tears when Sonny ended up in handcuffs.  He brought Christ back to this small community and it seems also helped improve race relations in the town.Back to the story, the Devil enters Pastor Sonny Dewey (Robert Duvall) after his wife, Jessie (Farrah Fawcett) has an affair with the handsome young Church Youth leader, Horace (Todd Allen). Things get worst when Jessie demands a divorce and kicks Sonny out of the Church, coup d'etat style. He's upset because he built the Church and it's been his life.A drunk Sonny goes to pick his kids up for a visit, and ends up in a confrontation with Horace.  On a little league baseball field in front on many, Sonny viciously strikes the Youth leader in the face with a bat sending into convulsions and a coma. Sonny, then flees town, ending up in Bayou Boute, Louisiana, where he revives a dead church. Sonny manages to elude the police by calling himself Apostle E.F..  All the way he says he is on a mission from God. The congregation loves him, and we see members go from a handful to a packed church.  He even manages to stop a racist troublemaker (Billy Bob Thornton) from destroying the tiny church with a bulldozer.During this time Sonny's beloved Mother dies from kidney failure and Horace dies. Just when things are going well for Sonny and the Church, the State Police show up to arrest him. Strange how Jessie hears interference on her Texas radio, and manages to identify it as Sonny. she then tips the police on Sonny's location. Could this be that Sonny did the Lord's work in Bayou Boute and now its time to minister to inmates?Many who see this will probably wish Sonny was their Pastor. Robert Duvall's Portrayal was so believable that it was hard to believe that he is just acting. He obviously studied and understood his role well. I consider the film many Bible lessons packed into one film. It's also a story of good versus evil, and a lesson on what jealousy can drive a person to.  "},{"Title":"Duvall's direction/acting/writing makes this flick a winner","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Lord seldom forgets unrepented sins, so Eulis `Sonny' Dewey would discover in the film `The Apostle.' Seldom does a filmmaker venture to the church's unreached corners as boldly as director/writer/protagonist Robert Duvall. His portrayal of Sonny yields conviction, yet feels drawn out.Sonny grew up in the light of the church since he was 12. Before long, he's pastoring his own congregation. However, his modern, flashy church and fiery sermons seldom quench his affinity for women, alcohol and temper. Sonny's vices catch up when his wife Jessie (Farrah Fawcett) severs the marriage while she's having an affair with the youth minister Horace (Todd Allen). At the same time, Horace plots to usurp Sonny as pastor. Tempers flare when Sonny slams Horace with a little-league baseball bat. The blow lands Horace in death's grip while Sonny flees from the law. He crawls his way to a Louisiana shantytown where he establishes a new church under the name The Apostle E.F. With his past unbeknownst to the congregation, Sonny converts run-down shack into the One Road to Heaven Holiness Temple with the help of retired preacher Brother Blackwell. There, his small following of a few members blossoms to fill the entire building, with more people putting their faith in Sonny than ever before.until the day the law comes.This film realizes Robert Duvall 15-year-old dream. Through his direction, funding and personal talent, he brings Sonny's character to life. Sonny's convictions are real and his people are enthusiastic about the Lord. Perhaps the greatest strength of this film lies in its honesty portraying the church. Often, Hollywood makes their own assumptions about Christianity, as was the case in `Signs.' These misconceptions come off hackneyed and often insulting. Duvall's homework prior to this film is clear he actually knows something about the people he's portraying.Ultimately, Sonny often strikes you as sour rather than saint. He masks his past with spirituality without repenting of past sins. Not only that, but fists fly when he's agitated, as was the case when a backcountry redneck threatens to tear Sonny's new church down. However, Sonny's love for his people and congregation deserves admiration. He blocks a church-knocking bulldozer by himself. No one can match his zeal for the lost sheep.Duvall's direction adds Pentecostal fire in each congregation. No shout, scream or clap was spared. In the end, the film felt drawn out with an abrupt end; it tagged on like a four-hour charismatic service.In the end, Duvall delivers a respectable product in a genre that Hollywood doesn't effectively address without ignorance or inaccuracy. "},{"Title":"Seeing Jesus in The Apostle","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle hit close to home for me.  I spent me teenage years attending churches in the holiness tradition.  Since about my senior year of high school, I have grown increasingly skeptical of the emotional and spiritual experiences displayed in these Pentecostal churches.  Because of my skepticism, I am glad I watched this film.  Maybe somewhere along the journey I dismissed the possibility that God manifests Himself to different people in different ways. 	In some ways it is easy to dismiss Sonny (Robert Duvall).  He is a flawed man.  He is divorced, full of lust, and a murderer.  However, it is also clear that his faith is enormous and despite his struggles he sees God perform miracles in his mist.  Residing within him together with all his shortcomings, Sonny is full of love for God and for other people, especially those who do not yet know Jesus. 	The amazing accomplishment of this movie is that it shows you Christ in the form of a sinful man.  And you can really see it.  Over the film's 2 hours and 14 minutes, the audience's love and concern for Sonny grows increasingly stronger.  He is a real person; the real Christian everyone wishes they knew because even though they know he is a sinner they also know that he really has a relationship with the God he speaks of.   	I'm glad I watched this movie.  I hope that I am more tolerable to other Christian traditions.  I hope that I am more loving and real with people.  I hope that in the mist of adversity, in the darkest valley, I know who is with me at all times&#133;Jesus.          "},{"Title":"Engaging and skilled, but lacking","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had heard many good things about this film, not the least of which was Robert Duvall's performance. While Mr Duvall is a very skilled performer, and I don't think I've ever seen a part he didn't do brilliantly, this attempt at filling the entire credits with his name (not to mention monopolising the screen) fell just a bit short of brilliance. It is a fascinating tale, beautifully filmed and cleverly portrayed, but it doesn't quite make the leap to classic. The portrayal of a flawed man is good, but the portrayal of the saintly man seems lacking. The supporting cast is good, but often seemed unnecessary to the story as the central character hordes all the meaningful action. Even the promising ex-wife character doesn't get the exposure she needed. I watched the entire movie and was impressed by it all, but I walked away uneffected. Worth a watch but wait for video. My vote 7/10 (It would have been a 7.5 if possible). "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of Hollywoods best movies to date in my opinion, Duval is my Hero.... a Latino who takes you to the old time revial tent days with an extremely accurate portrayal of the real deal Hollyfield southern church scene....I have never been so moved by a movie in all my day ...being Afro American and growing up in the church, I'll tell you he really done some serious Homework!!!....there is no faking the hollyspirit...BUT Duval pulls it off in AAA 5 star fashion..this one should have got an Oscar!!!!!!!!!booooooooo!!! hats off to one of the best films of modern time...... Billy Bob Thornton's short but powerful appearance really had a tremendous impact as well, not to mention Farrah Facett's role as the wife ...she was a natural.....lol!....EVERYONE SHOULD SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Mark my word, this is Powerful","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I could just strip down this excessive comment to the following words I loved it. It's a very down-to-earth story, simple yet intriguing. It's really fascinating how the acting goes by with you barely noticing. The acting just has a beautiful flow to it, every single character works together with the rest, to create something wonderful. As I said, when you watch it you don't notice, but when you think back... Everything is just so... right. I'm not sure it's because I have religious beliefs I enjoyed it, but I don't think so. Everyone in the mood for Powerful drama should watch this, atheist or Christian. It's been a long time since I felt so much for a film as simple as this. If I ever have. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Thank you Jesus","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Duvall's devotion to his subject drives his intense portrayal of The Apostle. It's a story of sin and redemption in the life of a Southern preacher, and requires of the viewer a willingness to open up to messages that might usually be shut out. If you can't do that, you may find the pacing too slow and the plot developments too flatly handled. It's not that nothing happens, but the steady building pace and near-documentary delivery don't hit hard enough on their own.I enjoyed it for the chance to see an honestly delivered demonstration of the attraction that southern-style gospel -- the music, the words, and the tradition -- has for so many, as well as for Duvall's extraordinary and loving performance "},{"Title":"A simple story","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a very hard movie for an agnostic to comment. However although it is not a masterpiece nor does it use any special effects, it is really a powerful movie who tells us a very simple story of a man who not only strongly believes in what he preaches but also has the power to convince other people by his words. By his words but not by his deeds since he has his troubles and weaknesses as a human being and like any other ordinary human being  he reacts to them using violence. He is also capable of loving a woman like any man would though he tries to do it in a restrained way. The narrating style is naturalistic, almost documentary. "},{"Title":"A Seamless Fictional Documentary","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Created by Robert Duvall as a fiction film, but worth taking in as a documentary, 'The Apostle' is a striking commentary on contemporary Christian Americana. Duvall is Texas preacher Eulis 'Sonny' Dewey, whose irreverent lifestyle leads him away from his family, to a journey of self-discovery in the bayou lands of southern Louisiana.It is difficult to resist the film's realistic portrayal of Pentecostal Christianity, which appeals on both religious and secular levels. The convincing performances by Duvall, Farrah Fawcett (as Dewey's wife) and Billy Bob Thornton constitute the rigid base on which everything else stands. Furthermore, the daring integration of actors and non-actors in a plethora of sequences throughout the film is so successful that it is virtually impossible to discern the directorial seams that hold this polished film together. Direction, though, is far from flawless, and one gets the impression that more rigid editing could have added firmness on a somewhat stretched script. But the overall impact of these shortcomings on the film is limited, thanks mainly to the creative passion that visibly permeates the production of this fine effort. Worth watching, six stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"Engaging story driven by powerful performance from Robert Duvall","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An engaging story driven by a very powerful performance from Robert Duvall.The story of a minister in a evangelical Christian church who starts a new life after committing a crime. Interesting and engaging story as we see the man's life destroyed and then see him rebuild it, and see the effect he has on others. Superb performance by Robert Duvall in the lead role (though we have come to expect that from him). Very believable as the preacher, with mannerisms, doctrine etc very well researched.While having an interesting plot (written by Duvall) and also being well-directed (by Duvall), the movie isn't too profound, which is disappointing. I was waiting for that moment of clarity, but it never came.It is all about the journey, not the destination, in this case. "},{"Title":"The Apostle is a terrific character study.","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After his happy life spins out of control, a preacher from Texas changes his name, goes to Louisiana and starts preaching on the radio. Eulis 'Sonny' Dewey is a preacher from Texas living a happy life with his beautiful wife Jessie. Suddenly his stable world crumbles Jessie is having an affair with young minister Horace. Sonny gets enraged and hits Horace with a softball bat, putting him into a coma. After that he leaves town, takes a new name, 'Apostle E.F.' and goes to Louisiana. There he starts to work as a mechanic for local radio station owner Elmo, and Elmo lets him preach on the radio. E.F. starts to preach everywhere on the radio, on the streets, and with his new friend, Reverend Blackwell he starts a campaign to renovate an old church. Roger Ebert wrote Perhaps it's not unexpected that Duvall had to write, direct and star in this film, and round up the financing himself. There aren't that many people in the film industry gifted enough to make such a film, and fewer still with the courage to deal honestly with a subject both spiritual and complex. (Simple-minded spirituality is no problem; consider the market for angels right now). The Apostle is like a lesson in how movies can escape from convention and penetrate the hearts of rare characters. The Apostle is a flawed man who can lift others up, but has trouble lifting himself up. And that contradiction is what gives this movie its flavor. All-in-all, a fine movie. "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall's performance makes this movie worth watching to see terrific acting.","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Apostle will primarily appeal to those 30 and older. Robert Duvall is the only reason for seeing this movie. Otherwise, I found this movie extremely boring and slow. Robert Duvall's performance makes this movie worth watching to see terrific acting. This is my third preaching movie seen today. I think that I am all preached out. This is a good movie to see in the afternoon if you want to stay awake for the entire film. I usually enjoy watching Robert Duvall in his movie roles. This role makes him both a villain and a hero. Most of the time I remember Robert Duvall as mostly the villain in a movie. Bring plenty of munchies for this film. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"You might as well go to church...","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many films have their hearts in the right place, but just can't close the deal. Now, this does have a great setup, and it takes you to an interesting place. At the same time, about half an hour could have been cut from the film. For the most part, while predictable the writing does well with its premise. I don't think I was ever surprised by anything.Duvall gives a great award-worthy performance, and his character has charisma. The film, however, falls too much in love with it, goes off on a tangent, and it is bound and determined not to end. The length of the climactic scene - if you can call it that - undermined the story's emotional impact. The film benefits from its cast, but Billy Bob Thornton and Miranda Richardson were the only supporting actors who added much depth to the plot. If you're looking for a similar Christian tale of redemption set in the Deep South, I would recommend Black Snake Moan. I found that one to have a better pace, more interesting characters, and tighter writing. "},{"Title":"hats off to a genius!!","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i waited to see this movie. i guess i was afraid. i watched the apostle tonight! it gripped me from the first turn of the reels. i have always adored robert duvall! convicts is also one of his best roles! and, let us not forget lonesome dove! i could not believe the fact that he also directed this movie, as well. i know it was made back in 1997, but, i just saw it tonight. robert duvall-you are one of the finest actors to ever come out of the back woods of this great country of ours! the tragedy is you did not make more movies in which you were also given the chance to direct! i take my hat off to you, fine sir! hats off, gentlemen, to a genius!! "},{"Title":"Thou Shall Not Shout, isn't the 11th Commandment","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those rare Performances that seems to transcend Acting. Robert Duvall is the Apostille, one might say. A firebrand force, a Jesus Juggernaut, a Preacher who will not be denied. He will invoke Jesus' Name until it literally drives Satan away holding his ears.The trouble, as far as this Movie goes, it may drive Viewers away with its relentless Bible Thumping and sing-song Religious Rants, most shouted at supreme volume, with or without the aid of a microphone or Amplitude Modulation. There is so much of this and it is so intense that it almost, but not quite, leaves the more subtle, sublime elements drowning in a Sea of self-indulgence.There is much to admire in this singular effort from the Producer/Writer/Star/Director. The backdrops all have a realism of Rural, Southern Americana and the Cast are all fitting and the combination of Pros and Extras add an almost Documentary feel. Much praise and much Screen time is given to Stylistic Sermonizing by the Apostille and although it is totally believable and compelling, there maybe just too much of a Good thing.Overall, this gallant effort is not without its Sins and is quite an Excellent Character Study. A bit of editing and just a little restraint may have made this a Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Saved by Robert Duvall","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After bringing scores of souls to accept Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, evangelical Texas preacher Robert Duvall (as Euless Sonny Dewey) finds his Christian career threatened by infidelity. Cheating wife Farrah Fawcett (as Jessie) wants a divorce. Enraged, Mr. Duvall takes a fatal swing at Ms. Fawcett's young lover Todd Allen (as Horace). On the run from the police, Duvall changes his identity to Apostle E.F. and begins a new preaching career in partnership with retired Louisiana minister John Beasley (as Charles Blackwell). Success includes a radio show, which is eventually heard by...The opening scenes include Duvall as a boy, which may not be clear (unless you watch it a second time). The setting is 1969, and jumps ahead with no notification. There is also something odd about mother June Carter Cash, who possibly likes to play possum. Another early concern is that Duvall, who also wrote and directed, holds back on his character's own sexual indiscretions. These are referenced as wanderin' eye and womanizing in the script, but a concentrated attention is required. Consequently, Fawcett appears to be the wicked home-wrecker. She also wants to steal Duvall's congregation...Duvall's preacher is a violent, vociferous and self-centered liar. However, he does appear to be a genuine believer. Why he avoids accepting responsibility for taking life and entering into adulterous affairs, while yearning to keep his family together, is not as important as the need to preach. Mr. Beasley and possibly Miranda Richardson (as Toosie) seem to be quietly aware of the ruse. In the dark, but acting stellar, are surprisingly unsaved mechanic Walton Goggins (as Sam) and born-again best friend Billy Joe Shaver (as Joe). Billy Bob Thornton has a glorified cameo. Duval's characterization is excellent.******* The Apostle (9/6/97) Robert Duvall ~ Robert Duvall, Farrah Fawcett, John Beasley, Walton Goggins "}{"Title":"Puzzled by what motivated the Preacher after he fled the state?","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An excellent take on charismatic, evangelical Christianity. An imperfect man with faith. Why wouldn't exposure of his wife's adultery challenged her ability to take over the church? I never understood why did he go and start a new church when he was avoiding the murder charges. Why did Sonny attempt a relationship with the new lady in Louisiana? Wouldint his new woman be adultery since he yet to be formally divorced? He seems to have been aware of the inevitable. Was he on a mission of redemption before he face the inevitable punishment? Was he addicted to the prestige and sense of purpose he had as a minister? Why did he fight so hard to build the new church? "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For me one of the best films of Robert Duvall. We can see here that a pastor is a normal person. His passion for preaching the Gospel is obvious as it is his weaknesses as a person. All actors did an awesome job. It was a fantastic experience to watch this film. Robert Duvall was quite brave writing and directing this film. He seems to have enjoyed every bit of the film. The music is as good as the film. I recommend this film to any person believer or not. You can see from troublemakers to false friends. His commitment for his job is admirable. It contains intelligent humor but not as a vulgar comedy. I never thought that a film like that could be done by a star as Mr. Duvall. "},{"Title":"Static scenes of praise and redemption...","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A troubled preacher on the Salvation circuit is railroaded out of his spot in the local church by his cheating, vindictive wife; he does some soul-searching, eventually starting his own parish out of a ramshackle building in the sticks which he slowly renovates. Robert Duvall wrote, directed, and stars in this somewhat lofty character study which begins with some fiery church-worshiping (set in the past), leading incongruously to the present where Duvall stops at a car accident to pray for the dying. The wayward early scenes, with Farrah Fawcett as Duvall's spouse and June Carter Cash as his mother, are so scattershot and marred by confusion, it's unclear what the characters mean to one another--or to us. It takes a long time for Duvall to blend what he most wants to see into this heady mix ordinary folks finding strength and salvation in communal prayer. His little asides would surely be sneakier and funnier if the editing didn't linger over everything so long, yet Duvall proves to have a capable way with his extras and actors if not his narrative. The film is really just a colorful, energetic bushel of scenes in search of a product. As a filmmaker, Duvall may not know much on how to package a film such as this, though his conviction is apparent in the attempt. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Are you ready?","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like all earthly endeavors, The Apostle is unfinished and patchy in places. But imperfect as it may be, it's one of the most intriguing movies of its kind. On one level, it's a road movie, but it is also a character study and a rites of passion tale. Sonny Dewey, the Apostle, was born ready, but the beginning of his final run as a missionary has its end written all over it. He is a saint in the body of a sinner, and as a preacher, he is simply too good at what he does for his own good. It's easy to see how this movie was a matter of the heart for writer-director-actor Robert Duvall. The storytelling, the setting, and the camera work all have a timeless quality. But it's Duvall's drastic performance that keep your eyes locked on the screen. The bible may praise those who do not see and still believe. But in the case of this fine movie, seeing is believing. "},{"Title":"Solid, Wonderful Film-making","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have always enjoyed movies that Robert Duvall has been involved in, so I was curious to see what this 'one man show' was going to be like.This film came out about the same time Titanic was marauding its way through American theaters. I remember walking of The Apostle thinking that Titanic didn't have 1/10th the emotional charge that The Apostle brings. I have never seen a movie so thought-provoking, riveting, laugh-inducing and tear-jerking as this one.There are no special effects, not really any 'Big-Name' Hollywood hot-shot actors (possible exceptions being Duvall himself and June Carter Cash) - and The Apostle doesn't need them.Yes - there is MUCH talk about 'God' in this film, but it is not about Religion as such. Everyone from Athiest/Agnostic to Jew to Muslim to the most Baptist Bible-Thumper in Georgia will be able to relate to and enjoy this movie.I love this film, and especially after having seen it have a tremendous amount of respect for Robert Duvall. He put $4 million of his own money on the line to make this movie - that's commitment, folks. If you haven't seen The Apostle - do yourself a favor and watch it sooner rather than later. "},{"Title":"Blistering...","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Duvall redefines gumption as the producer, writer, director and star of this blistering take on sin and redemption...well, maybe not redemption since Duvall keeps things ambiguous enough so that nothing is a done deal. Duvall plays a minister who, after beating his soon to be ex-wife's boyfriend with a baseball bat, hits the road to find himself. He meets a slew of people along his way --- including the lovely Miranda Richardson and the not so lovely Billy Bob Thornton. Duvall's performance is absolutely spellbinding and the supporting cast is great. Words like lovely and enchanting are rarely used to describe Richardson, but they certainly apply here. June Carter Cash has brief but amusing role as Duvall's mother and Farrah Fawcett, as Duvall's wife, proves once again that with a good script and good actors, she's a very capable actress. "},{"Title":"Outstanding acting","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I started watching this movie flipping through channels on TV and thought, at first, that it was a documentary. The acting and cinematography had that kind of verisimilitude. Robert Duvall has created a masterpiece with this film, which so accurately portrays the conflicted nature of even the most devout. Even they sin. Duvall shows this as (at least in some cases) not hypocrisy but the fallen and imperfect nature of man. This is a powerful and thoughtful movie, unbelievably well acted. This movie portrays the simple faith of the uneducated, in the world in which I was reared, a faith to which, as adults, we often wish we could return. The effect of this movie is that one feels at the end, that one has watched something real, something which portrays real human feeling. "},{"Title":"A great film and performance from Duvall","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Apostle shows that star turned director Duvall, can hit from behind the camera as well. This film has a touching story, and with the help of a solid cast Duvall's film is quite good. The film has a great first and 2nd act and although I had some problems with the ending I still enjoyed it very much. Duvall and Billy Bob Thornton both gave very memorable performances, and Fawcett was decent while Miranda Richardson was great. I also like Walton Goggins, a favorite of mine from his work in The shield. The screenplay is pretty good, i was surprised Duvall pulled this off so well, the story could have been ruined, but he did fairly well and kept its potential. The direction was a bit slow, especially toward the end, but its good, a light but meaningful enjoyable flick. A smart film from Duvall. 9/10 #171 on my list of all-time favorite films "},{"Title":"Integrity","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle displays two forms of integrity. One of honest unblinking story telling on the part of Mr. Duvall and the other on the part of the character Sonny, a true evangelist (in spite/because of his humanity).Non-religious viewers are encouraged to watch this film because it displays aspects of American culture often ignored. Religious views should consider this film mandatory viewing, because it will shed light on the concept of belief. Mr. Duvall tells truths about America's interracial culture, showing how blurred the lines actually are. This film more than any other should bring shame on those who use religion as a weapon.  "},{"Title":"Integrity","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle displays two forms of integrity. One of honest unblinking story telling on the part of Mr. Duvall and the other on the part of the character Sonny, a true evangelist (in spite/because of his humanity).Non-religious viewers are encouraged to watch this film because it displays aspects of American culture often ignored. Religious views should consider this film mandatory viewing, because it will shed light on the concept of belief. Mr. Duvall tells truths about America's interracial culture, showing how blurred the lines actually are. This film more than any other should bring shame on those who use religion as a weapon.  "}{"Title":"Robert Duvall's labor of love","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a movie that Robert Duvall had intentions of making for many years and finally got the project going when he made this feature portraying a Pentecostal preacher with flaws (just like any other human being) without making him into a backwoods caricature or self-righteous charlatan, as in the case of many productions, since few movies have ever made a minister of the gospel the main character, much less show him preaching a sermon. Duvall's Apostle E.R. portrayal is wonderful as a man trying to start over again after accidentally murdering his wife's lover, then moving on to a southern Louisiana community pastoring a small decrepit church. Billy Bob Thornton also has a great brief role as a troublemaker who comes to the church during a sermon whom the Apostle has a fist fight with.  "},{"Title":"A great American film!","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duvall takes on a personal project and delivers a great American Film in the process. Richly detailed and wonderfully acted, The Apostle is a film to see if you're interested in excellent storytelling and filmmaking. I loved it! "},{"Title":"A man which follows Gods' plan.","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didn't want to comment on this movie, but God had other plans. Many people might think this is a good movie with a strong plot and well developed characters, there's also people who think this movie was a bit too lengthy, but the movie touched you.  Many people think a movie shouldn't have to preach to you, but this movie did and it was good.  Life is too short and important to be entertained by nothing.  You need a strong message not just entertainment.  You might think I'm a fool, but I'm a fool that's giving God's message, which Duvall did.  Realize you have more important things in life to do, than to just entertain.  Entertainment is for a moment Jesus is forever.  God bless!A "},{"Title":"well, praise the Lord ..!","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duvall in a tour-de-force where he not only plays the lead, the 'praise the Lord' preacher, but writes, produces and directs as well.  Good though he is, you have the feeling he's a little old to put across this character with total effectiveness.  Especially when his wife is played by Farrah Fawcett, still looking glamorous, and he has small children.  You have to admire his single-mindedness in getting this minor piece before the cameras and out into the cinemas, though.  And 'The Apostle' ultimately gives a message of hope, forgiveness, and redemption, through the lead character's journey spreading the word of God. "},{"Title":"Honest and Intense","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having been raised in the Pentacostal faith, I have always been dismayedby the portrayal of Pentacosatal people in the movie. They are always abunch of gap-toothed, snake-handling droolers with little or no sense.This film shows Pentacostal in all their 'real' glory. They arepassionate, intelligent and sometimes violent but human nonetheless. Itwas apparent that some of the people in the movie were not actors. Thiswas a brilliant move on the part of the director and casting people. I'mnot a big 'crier' at movies but I was in tears a couple of times duringthis film especially at t "},{"Title":"Challenging","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a movie to pass comment on. I wouldn't have even thought of it till I got the urge to watch it again last night. I didn't finish it in its entirety last night cause it was Star Search night. But back to the comment. Initially I passed on seeing this film because I thought like others that it would be a stereo-typical, preachy drama about the legalism and closed mindness of Christian folk. But Duvall here did something different. Challenging you could say.I heard that he wrote this story from start to finish on long hand and being an aspiring writer myself I applauded that. I appreciate the way he showed how Christians (including Ministers)are human and flawed like everyone else. After he did the you know what against the commandments, he runs and its interesting because we as the audience are watching the plot unfold as he awaits (with the assistance of the Holy Spirit)for a sign from God. Thats usually how it works. But he knows he can't run and hide forever. So what does he do in the meantime? Touch lives. Then, he must eventually stand.But what makes this movie worthy of commenting on is in the end when he is chanting the name and the importance of Jesus. It doesn't quit because he sinned. It continues and gets better. It never ends. That's Challenging. "},{"Title":"We, the people of the South, proudly accept you as one of our own...","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recall when this movie was released.  I avoided it simply because I feared it was another stereotypical the-Christian-is-an-idiot portrayal. Whoops.Mr. Duvall, well, let's just say that this man never ceases to amaze me with his ability to portray Southern characters.  Lonesome Dove, Apocalypse Now, Tender Mercies, etc.  I'll tell you about Gen. Robert Edward Lee by this time tomorrow night.Robert Duvall, we, the people of the South, proudly accept you as one of our own... "},{"Title":"I'm not goin' to Paris, France...","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An american masterpiece, The Apostle is a story of faith, redemption and of course, sin. The production is filled with many non-actors who make the whole production feel so real. And how many of you didn't laugh when Sister Johnson was Baptized. Glory! Glory! indeed. "},{"Title":"A great film that might be even greater for some editing","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'd like to see this film again.  There's a lot in it, and I think one of the marks of real art is that you see more when you look again.  As a believer from a very different tradition myself, I'd have to throw away my prejudices first next time!  I spent far too much time looking for the con trick or sign of dissension within the One Way church, with its showmanship and Old Time Religion which I couldn't believe was sincere.  And while I was thinking how shocking for a preacher to be selling on the radio, more important things were happening!  Just one major criticism having moved along at a leisurely pace, the service at the end seemed to go on for ever (16mins I believe).  Call me a philistine, but I don't see that much would have been lost by taking it down to, say, 5mins!  I'm afraid I shall certainly have the remote control handy for the fast cue button on the re-run. "},{"Title":"Interesting and accurate depiction of the holiness church.","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As one who was born into and raised in the Holiness Church, I can attest to the accuracy of the content of this movie. Robert Duvall, as always, does a masterful job in portraying the charismatic bible-thumping evangelist Sonny (Prophet E.F.) Dewey. Not only is this an interesting introspection into the Holiness Church, but also a reminder as to the methods, hypocrisies and life styles of those who are members. How Robert Duval was able to solicit the cooperation of actual Holiness Church members to partake in this movie is an achievement in itself as many of those in this movement view Hollywood and movies as instruments of the devil himself. If you have ever been part of or know someone who was involved in the Holiness Church you will thoroughly enjoy this movie. For those of you who have no knowledge of this movement, sit back relax and become educated. "}{"Title":"Robert Duvall's grand masterpiece","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle was an impressive, powerful and remarkable movie. Robert Duvall made one the biggest milestones of his career when he produced, directed and wrote it. Most of all, he played the leading role with such a talent, style and devotion it just lefts the audience astonished and speechless. The Apostle had everything the story was exquisite and the script was just startling. All the performances were amazing. Whether you like Pentecostal preachers or not is not an issue here, this five year old masterpiece is totally a must-see - movie that doesn't bore for a minute. "},{"Title":"really good movie","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think this was a really good movie. Lots of times in movies they dont make the preachers in the movie realistic. I feel thats something that should be more realistic. But in this movie I think Robert did a good job directing and acting in this movie. And did a good job writing his character to be realistic, like how southern preachers act, as in how they preach to the congregation. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good movie, cause I think this is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Praise the Lord!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My father saw The Apostle back when it was in theaters and told me about it after I commented that I liked Elmer Gentry.  I generally don't like the same movies that my father does, but I am a fan of June Carter Cash (who played Momma Dewey in the film), so I figured what the hey and rented the VHS version.  Am I glad I did.  I watched The Apostle on a stormy Saturday morning and for not a moment was I not enthralled or moved.  I typically appreciate older movies, and I don't like the way that more contemporary films feel it is necessary to accompany what little plot they have to offer with constant action and a blaring soundtrack.  The art of dialogue and artful shots is fading quickly.  But this movie offered all of that and more.I have read all viewer comments IMDB has to offer about The Apostle, and a lot of folks complained that the film dragged.  Personally, I was on the edge of my seat the whole time, waiting for the inevitable (E.F.'s arrest) to happen.  In my opinion, Robert Duvall is one of the best actors of our time, and The Apostle is a beautiful showcase to display his talents. True, it focuses on him most of the time, but Duvall is such a wonderful actor and E.F. is such a powerful character that when the focus away from him, the movie loses momentum, but not by much.Plot and characters aside, this movie was stunning to look at.  The filming was done in Texas and Louisiana, which is fitting, because you cannot capture the beauty of the Deep South in a back lot in California.  All the actors looked perfect for their parts, and while some have commented that that of the elderly black fisherman was a demeaning character, he was realistic, as was every other character in the film.  They acted like real folks put into a certain situation.  As far as the plot and acting goes, this film moved me the way few other films have before.  The scene where E.F. telephones his buddy back home to check on his momma, who in reality is laid out in a funeral parlor, drove me to tears, as did the scene where E.F. is working at a crummy little diner to pay for his church and sees Toosie back with her husband.  But the climax of this movie was at the very end, when the law finally catches up with E.F., and they arrest him after he gives the sermon of his life, which had me crying up until the credits began to roll and we see E.F. on a chain gang, preaching as he always did, where I began to laugh with the film's moving message of hope and renewal.Another issue that has been brought up by both fans and critics of the movie alike is that the movie has holes.  Yet you also complain that it is too long.  The movie personally flew by for me, and I would welcome those extra scenes, even if they did lengthen the movie a bit.  I believe that it is a crime that Robert Duvall did not walk away with the Oscar for Best Actor for The Apostle and an even larger crime that Titanic (evil) won Best Picture instead of this lasting masterpiece.  In any case, if you have to have the latest pop or rock tunes blasting throughout, or a high-speed car chase, or a lot of sex to get through a movie, then don't see The Apostle. Or maybe you should, so you'll see what real film is all about.Holy Ghost Power!!!  -) "},{"Title":"outstanding drama about redemption","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Duvall`s amazing performance both as an actor and director,one of his career`s finest!The story is focused on a small comunity preacher and his maniac attraction for preaching.Unfaithful wife(Farah Fawcett)is just match in the gasstank.Under a new id(as apostle EF)he is given the chance to perform again as a preacher,which seals his faith in the end as a fugitive,after having murdered.A both moral and dramatical brilliant performance,which why exactly didn`t deserve the Oscar? Obviously,the Academy is not an independent filmmakers`fan!  "},{"Title":"No one can save souls like the man who's lost (& found) his own.","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is intense & comes uncomfortably close to reality at times, Due in large part to Robert Duvall's riveting performance in the leading role as the Apostle E.F.  Mr. Duvall's ability to become rather than simply portray characters really comes into play in this film. Watching the preaching sequences, you completely forget he's an actor playing a part - he's just Sonny the charismatic full gospel man of God. During those scenes I found myself hunting around the theater for one of those old timey cardboard fans to cool down with & nearly shouted 'Amen' a couple of times. Luckily I caught myself. Without exception every person who had a role in this film was fantastic. It was as if you sat down & found yourself inside this man's life. The movie wasn't so much the telling of a tale as it was experiencing what it was like to be the Apostle. You will find yourself having sympathy for what ultimately turns out to be an act of murder. Of particular note were the small but powerful performances of June Carter Cash, Billy Joe Shaver and Billy Bob Thorton. June Carter's portrayal of 'Mama' was thoroughly believable & hilarious at times.  Billy Joe's performance as the Apostle's loyal friend Joe was so heartfelt and real you just know you could call him up if you were in a jam or needed prayer.  Billy Bob's role as the hard-headed redneck whom E.F. leads to the Lord (after he whips his butt that is) is classic BBT perfection.You can't accurately describe this one - you just gotta experience it. If you're a Robert Duvall fan, you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"outstanding work!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen complaints about this movie's length and the intensity of its focus on Duval's character. Well, it's a long movie all right - but my wife and I were riveted the whole way through. This movie is totally ABOUT the Apostle E.F., a holy madman seeking to do all the good he can before the payback he knows is coming for his greatest sin, killing his wife's lover in a moment of rage (pure Darwinism - he warned the silly ass in no uncertain terms to stay out of his face!).E.F. is an acting tour de force for Duval, and why he didn't get an Oscar is beyond me though I haven't checked what he was up against.It helps to be a Christian (even a wimp liberal mainstream one like me) to really appreciate this movie - at the beginning you sort of have him figured for a phony and it becomes more and more apparent that he believes in God and his mission all the way down to the core despite his many failings. Even if you're not a Christian this is one compelling character!Taken on its own terms, this movie is awesome. Taken on anybody's terms, IMHO it is very, very good! "},{"Title":"A just film that was done great injustice...","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle was what an actor should do with a film when he decides to direct. Duvall got robbed.  The Best Actor Oscar should have been his.  'Nuff said. "},{"Title":" Another great Robert Duvall character!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How many people have I met like the Robert Duvall character in this film? i.e. (God loves you but he needs money and wants me to kick your A**) More than I could count, nevertheless it is Robert Duvall who carries this film completely. It's one of those pictures that holds your attention throughout. It shows the faith and devotion that a great many people have in religion and also exposes its hypocrisy at the same time. Robert Duvall has played so many great characters in his career it's impossible to pick his best one but The Apostle E.F. is without a doubt among his best. "},{"Title":"Excellent character study by Duvall ...","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  1st watched 8/22/1998 - 10 out of 10(Dir-Robert Duvall) Excellent character study by Duvall of a pentecostal preacher who has personal problems but a strong faith in God.  Very unique subject matter, well done without overblown stereotypes typically used in Hollywood towards God fearing people.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful acting by Duvall, but a bit Disjointed.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle was a showcase for Robert Duvall, in interviews he stated that he had been waiting for 12 years to make this film, and finally decided to finance it out of his own pocket.  Unfortunately when you are lead actor, director and editor, you have a tendency to use your shots over others. This was the case with the Apostle.  After reading the original script, I was astounded to see all the really good scenes that were apparently cut to allow Duvall more camera time.  Almost every scene that was cut, cut out another actor other than Duvall.  There were many layers of the story that would have made it much more complete.  I liked the film much more before I found out how good it could have been.  After reading the wonderful scrpt, it turns into a self serving acting reel for Duvall. "}{"Title":"The best character study on film I've ever seen!","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duval is excellent! This is a superb movie. This character lived, breathed and absorbed his religion. It was his whole being. I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to know what it's like to let a religion take over your very existence. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but long-winded","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If 'The Apostle' were a book, it would be turgid to the point of unreadability.  The ever-amicable Robert Duvall, who wrote and directed this film, seems to be especially fond of his subject matter, devoting 134 minutes (which felt like 200) to letting his story slowly unfold.  We get seemingly endless scenes filled with evangelistic gospel shouting and energetic Jesus worshiping, and even though Duvall is both endearing and consistently convincing in his role as the charismatic preacher, the shouting starts to grate after a while.My main gripe with this film, and something which hampered my enjoyment of it immensely, is the main character, the apostle E.F.  I just don't get him.  I don't understand his motives.  I am unable to sympathize with him.  He doesn't feel vividly human to me in the same way as, say, Jerry Lundegaard from the Coen Brothers' 'Fargo'.  He's not someone whose pain I can feel or whose joy I can share in.  Despite this he doesn't come across as a caricature or a two-dimensional character; the screenplay is too intelligent for that.  The end result is somewhere in the middle - a realistic character whose motives and inspirations are hidden (at least to myself).  My secondary gripe is the film's pace; it drags in places, the gospel scenes are far too long, and my guess is the story could well have been told in 90 minutes instead of 134.In some places the movie's pace lessens the dramatic impact; for instance, a farewell scene that had the potential to be genuinely touching is somewhat trivialized by its pointless length (yes, it's a gospel scene).  A sweet scene of redemption wherein a troublemaking redneck finds Jesus in front of a crowd of people (assisted by a teary-eyed Duvall), is cheapened by banal prattling from a radio station deejay broadcasting live from the area (This is amazing. I am speechless.)  When a movie has to tell me what I'm supposed to be feeling about it, I instinctively draw back my emotions and snatch back my suspended disbelief.  But maybe that's just me.Negative as I have sounded up to here, this film has many good points.  There is a beautiful and stirring opening scene in which we become acquainted with E.F.'s intense love and faith.  The screenplay (the parts of it that aren't regularly intercut with a cry of Jesus! anyway) is excellent; the characters are for the most part believable and interesting, and the story itself is brilliant.   The lead character, though I find him flawed in many ways, is refreshingly non-stereotypical for a film preacher or, indeed, a film Christian.  The acting is superb across the board, and set design, editing and other technical and artistic aspects are very competently handled.  I only wish I'd had more fun watching it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"THANK YOU JESUS!","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is easily the best movie I have ever seen.  Robert Duvall moulded an American Masterpiece when he scripted, produced, acted and directed this magnificent film.  The apostle is a realistic tale of a man's struggles with his flesh nature in contrast to his heart for Jesus while capturing the sheer uniqueness of Sonny's character then delivering a powerful, inspiring and truthful film.  The truth behind this movie is simple, all people whether they be preachers or not are not God and being not God doesn't mean what they have to say is not the truth.  As well as this it means that they are human and not God.  People shouldn't look to religious leaders to see perfection, this can only be found in God.  Duvall was robbed again at the oscars for this magnificent portrayal of an Apostle, which is believable to the effect that it's almost sublime.  As far I'm concerned the OSCAR's are rigged,Robert Duvall deserves the oscar he missed out on. Robert Duvall should been handed the award of a platter for this powerhouse performance, not only that but a best picture should have been forthcoming.  What amazes me is the accuracy of this movie, the research Duvall must have done would have been tiring to say the least.  The sheer complexity of a typical preacher here is captured, transformed and magnified on the big screen in all his fallibility and holiness.  Ten out of Ten for originality, Direction, Script and Performance, the best religious film ever made.  "},{"Title":"Mistake","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Boom mike visible When the Apostle E.F. is kneeling with the troublemaker in front of the bulldozer.The above is wrong.  The boom mike is prop.  It is used by Elmo, who is reporting on the revival thru a mic and tranmitter to his radio station.  He tells his audience that he is going to get close to hear what is said. "},{"Title":"A very real portrayal of a Southern Preacher.","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   Being a preacher's son myself, I really thought this film pointed out that preacher's are not perfect beings, but strive to be as perfect as they can. I enjoyed this film very much, but did disagree on a few things in it.  I thought the actors all did a wonderful job in their roles, but one thing I did not understand is the PG-13 rating. Aside from very little profanity and one mild violent scene, I thought this should have been a easy PG rated film.  "},{"Title":"uniquely compelling","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is a pleasant surprise to find a major film release that does not share Hollywood's dismissive attitude toward Christianity, and that treats believing Christians with respect, not as cretins and half-wits. It's no wonder Duvall had an awful time shopping this around the major studios and that he had to basically make the movie himself. We can be grateful to him for the splendid results.Duvall is perfect as Sonny and gives us a portrait of a deeply believing yet deeply flawed man, who comes to terms with his own weaknesses. It is a tour-de-force performance; Duvall obviously spent a lot of time watching and listening to charismatic fundamentalist preachers, and there is not a hint of condescension or parody in his portrayal. Secularists, agnostics, and non-believers will doubtless despise this film (probably because of Duvall's obvious sympathetic character; they would prefer to have a portrayal of a malicious charlatan). Fundamentalist Christians might object to the portrayal of a preacher with such deep flaws. The rest of us can enjoy a magnificent film with a central character who is tragic in the most classical sense of the term, i.e. as a strong person brought down by his own flaws. "},{"Title":"One way trip to Heaven","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This wonderfully done film was written by Robert Duvall whom incidentally directed and starred in it. It's absolutely original and well worth seeing. Duvall's acting is outstanding. However, I think many Baptist would appreciate it's premise much more than your average Joe. The film is a little overlong, but otherwise it's pretty good. The only other problem I saw was with Duvall's character development. There was none. You could no more trust Sonny later in the film than you did in the beginning. Not until the very end did you realize their was a change.The Story is about a Texas preacher nicknamed Sonny (Duvall) who's life is turned upside down by some unfortunate events in his life. Things that he will eventually have to confront and pay for later. In the meantime he tries to start his life over in Louisiana and does so very successfully. He becomes the Apostle E.F. Other big time celebrities are Farrah Fawcett and Billy Bob Thornton who both have a few small parts in the film. "},{"Title":"Preacher Supreme!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The ApostleDIRECTION c% Normal directing without frills or panache.ACTING '% The lead Duvall is excellent as he plays a 'pentecostal preacher on fire person' with a tormented soul looking for salvation for his sins. The minor characters add their own elements effectively, especially Billy Thornton.EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS R% Not much to talk about here, possibly the movie was a bit too long and needed some editing.PLOT &#129;% A man searches the world for salvation and a way to do good before it's too late. But even when it's too late he continues to do good.STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC T% Not much to talk about here, though some scenes are violent and arguments are heard, especially with God. Oh don't forget the baseball bat scenes!MUSIC v% Country music to mix in with the surroundings.SOUND %% Does it level best to put you in the picture.HOOKABILITY &#145;% You will be wondering what stance this movie is going to take when you see the little boy and the car accident..... a very dramatic scene!LASTABILITY &#133;% You will want to know if salvation can actually come to this person.OVERALL &#134;% A good attempt and well worth watching, even for the entertainment alone.  "},{"Title":"This was a excellent movie Robert Duval is just simply one great actor.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The apostle is a excellent movie, Robert Duval is simply just one great actor all of his work is excellent I hope he keeps one making movies for a long time. The whole cast was good in the Apostle and the Gospel singing was certainly good and were all the people very interesting storyline indeed. I would recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"More movies like this should be made","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, The Apostle does start off slow and drags a little at some points, but this was a terrific movie. Robert Duvall does a great job as Sonny, and Billy Bob Thornton and Walt Goggins gave wonderful support.Mr. Duvall made a wise move by hiring real parishoners as Apostle E.F.'s congregation. They make the film all the more real. What appealed to me most about The Apostle is that the characters, especially Sonny, are flesh and blood human beings and sinners. This movie is not cliched or stereotyped. It's a tranquil, slice-of-life movie that can move anyone.We need more films like this and Omega Code. Hopefully Hollywood will notice the success of this films and give us more family oriented, clean films that everyone can enjoy and relate to. "}{"Title":"Like a one-legged stepchild","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I beat him like a one-legged stepchild, that's how Robert Duvall describes how he murdered his rival with a baseball bat. He is a preacher that is as mean as a junk yard dog. We really don't get too much of a glimpse of his internal life, just endless scenes of his manic preaching, and his sad sack congregation. On the positive side, it has a real slice of live, improvised quality. But I cannot agree with the accolades it received. Honestly, I quickly tired of the Apostle; it talked the talk, but offered little insight into the characters or their religious faith.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing, haunting, inspiring","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a Christian, I was initially distressed by what seemed to be the caricaturing of a Southern Pentecostal Holiness preacher.  Indeed, my movie companion never got beyond this and hated the movie.  But hang on!  The more I watched Duval's portrayal, the more his character became powerfully real, showing a soul-wrenched complexity rarely witnessed on the screen.  For those inclined to dismiss heart-felt religion as a delusion or pretense, look closer.  The powerful interplay of temptation and inspiration, the confrontation of evil and goodness within the soul of a man reveals a truth many in our society are unwilling to ponder, let alone admit.Granted, the portrayal is accentuated (Hollywood rarely deals with issues subtly) and at times seems melodramatic.  But beneath the clamor is an earnest spiritual battle that strikes deep into the heart.  Thank you, Robert Duval, for taking the gamble of putting together The Apostle.           "},{"Title":"Duvall's performance makes the movie","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle is a showcase movie for Robert Duvall, who gives a flawless, intense portrayal of a flawed tragic hero.  It may be Duvall's best performance, and he makes this a movie worth seeing.  The Apostle is not so notable for subplots or side characters or social commentary, but the film works as a character study of a charismatic preacher who dramatically falls from grace and tries to pull himself up again, and with Duvall it works remarkably well. "},{"Title":"good film","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this film really crept up on me... the only reason I rented it (sorry but the general subject matter is one that I usually stay away from because of the fear of sensationalism0 is after reading an article stating that it took Duvall many years to get this made... absolutely a brilliant portrayal...supporting cast is find and believable... this film will stay with you for a while particularly if you have ever lived in the southeastern US...I couldn't unconditionally recommend it for everyone, but if you are patient through the first half you will be rewarded... "},{"Title":"If you DON'T go to church, see it; if you DO go, see it !","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duvall directed, wrote, and acted the main role.  He did a superb job with all three, and on the basis of this alone it is a film worth watching.  There are some strong messages here that Bible thumpers, agnostics and atheists can all relate to.  Sure, the plot is fairly predictable, and there is a one-dimensional direction throughout the film but it is cohesive and believable. One question that we were left with was that in spite of the apostle's twisted nature, he did in fact help others. We see good and evil together How often do we see this in other people, religious or not? Other questions to ponder What religious background did Robert Duvall have, and what is it now?  "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie about belief, disbelief and finding yourself.","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is wonderful because it deals with strong feelings about love, trust and finding yourself. I strongly recommend you to see this movie if you like drama movies, and if you are a Christian it will have an even larger dimension. Although the movie is sad sometimes you will probably be glad afterwards. "},{"Title":"Stays with you for a long time","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I have ever seen. Robert Duvall was robbed of an Oscar by Jack Nicholson (playing the same sour character he always plays). I couldn't get Sonny out of my mind for days after I saw this one. Growing up in the south as a Baptist (which I am sometimes embarrassed about--we are not all bigoted idiots who think Baptists are the only ones going to heaven), I can tell you there really are people that are like Sonny--maybe not to that extreme, but like him nonetheless. Robert Duvall gave the finest performance of his career playing a woefully inadequate christian at war with his feelings and desires versus his commitment to God. I can't believe he actually made me feel sorry for him by the end of the movie! All the supporting characters were wonderful too, especially Miranda Richardson as his love interest. At first I was none too interested in seeing this movie, thinking it would be too religious--but don't be deterred by that. It's not. You'll be glad you saw it. "},{"Title":"Nicholson over Duvall?  easily","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Duvall's best accomplishment in his opus was the story.  This is a quality movie but Duvall was only OK in the starring role.  In many ways he fails to bring emotion to the character he has created.  All too often he seems to be just going through the motions.  He says, i'll cry with you but he's not crying, he's saying it like he says EVERY OTHER LINE in the movie.  It gets a little tired.  Duvall also manages to waist two endlessly talent performers, Billy Bob Thornton and Miranda Richardson.  Both shine in their few scenes, especially Richardson, but they suffer (as do many other well played supporting characters) from the fact that Duvall takes up so much time saying the same things over and over again.  Duvall should have taken a long look at F. Murray Abraham's Salieri in Amadeus before he played a character with such inner turmoil.  This was a fine effort, but Nicholson (As Good as it Gets) deserved his Oscar, since the years best, Amistad's Djimon Hounsou, went un-nominated. ***  "},{"Title":"Sometimes a movie spills over","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sometimes there are one or two things that are so good about a movie  that not only do we ignore otherwise nagging flaws, but they make the movie  a better experience than other, perfect films.  It was once said to me that you could play a game of chess, not make any mistakes, and still lose.  To me, cinema is the same way  you could make a perfect film, with > perfect direction, photography, writing and performances, and still not have a great movie, or even a good one.  Ermanno Olmi's The Tree of Wooden Clogs springs to mind almost immediately.  It was a perfect representation  of provincial Italy, but it was an awful experience, a chore to get through. > Robert Duvall's losing of the Best Actor Oscar to Jack Nicholson (the  man had two, already!) in March of '98 was nothing but a continuation of  the Academy's long, embarrassing history of oversights.  Not only does he accurately portray a passionate preacher, but he gives such a  vivacious performance that anything wrong with the rest of the movie (and there  was very little wrong) was sealed up and forgotten.  I don't consider  myself a very religious man, but after seeing The Apostle, with all of  Duvall's feverish sermons, I came the closest to rescheduling my Sundays as I  ever have before.  Like I said in a comment I posted just now for King  Vidor's Hallelujah (1929), it's a testament to the power of the motion  picture to > communicate. "},{"Title":"Oscar material","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Duval's Oscar nomination could have turned into a win, he was very good. With all the fallen TV preachers in the news in the last few years, this fits right in, because Duval has his own flaw.  But Duval has a gift of inspiring people, and making good things happen, just what a preacher should be.  The only part ppl might want to fast-forward through is the longer gospel scenes, well done and interesting in showing how they work a crowd, but tedious if you're not into watching that stuff.  But don't pass this up just because you're not too religious, the movie transcends that, and you don't have to be a true believer to enjoy it.  -Bob  "}{"Title":"Pretty good, but not without flaws.","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The plot, in a nutshell a white Southern Baptist preacher with a black preaching style has to start a new ministry after going on the lam due to a drunken violent episode. He revitalizes an old church, fights off racists, and in the end goes peacefully to justice.Robert Duvall is a great actor. However, his writing and directing skills need honing for future projects. Stereotypes abound in this film. The simple-minded black fisherman, the hateful, tractor-driving redneck, the screaming, hypocritical Protestant preacher,the once-bitten, twice shy love interest. The story-telling is sound, however, and the tension builds as the viewer wonders when Duvall will be caught by police. As you watch Duvall's character undergo a spiritual renewal through self-effort and compassion for others (despite his myriad flaws)you understand that Duvall is making a statement not so much about religion, but about redemption. A good view, but not Oscar material. Grade B.Fun things to watch for Duvall's pimpin' appearance in a white suit at church, his home run at his kids' baseball game, the Spanish/English preaching, Billy Bob Thornton's angry redneck.  "},{"Title":"characterisation at the fore.","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has a strong central character in which Duvall plays just as well as the leading roles in American History X and Cate in Elizabeth.The movie is very moving and shows that dreams can come true, even though there is adversity around him. Why Duvall did not receive best actor was certainly strange? The Christianity involved was Pentecostal, but messages can be gained and used for all denominations. even though the Christianity was overt (nothing wrong with that) the emotional stress could be felt by the audience in some of the harrowing scenes committed to film. This is a family movie in many respects that members can learn a lot from especially the ending speeches. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Superlative","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw The Apostle with a friend in London, and for close to three hours it riveted an agnostic (myself) and a hard-core anti-clerical atheist (my friend).  At last, a film about Christianity that is neither a high-pressure sales pitch or a one-dimensional debunking.  I will remember Duvall preaching for his life in a church surrounded by SWAT teams for the rest of my life. "},{"Title":"devout man wages war inside himself between the flesh and spirituality","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent picture dealing with a holiness preacher who strays from the flock fairly regularly. This causes him trouble with the church elders and his wife. He goes on a spiritual odyssey to find what God has in store for him, and winds up founding a new church in a backwoods community. Unfortunately, his troubles are not over with even there. Well written story about how a Christian must constantly try and overcome Satanic influences.   "},{"Title":"A TRULY GREAT MOVIE","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How anyone could dislike this movie is beyond me.  It is a great movie, one of Hollywood's very best. Mr. Duvall plays a flawed preacher, one who sincerely believes in his faith and his calling, with exceptional brilliance. He knows he is a womanizer, jealous, has a bad temper brought out when he is drinking too much which gets him into serious trouble. He loses his affluent parish where he lives well,has a fine car, etc.  My friends tell me that this is not uncommon among some Evangelists, although not all of course.After losing that parish he is immediately prompted to sart a new one in an impoverished area.  He has no kind of racial prejudice and caters to all who want to hear his message.I recommend this highly and recently purchased the DVD version.  "},{"Title":"A very fine film","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Growing up Southern Baptist (and by the way, the Duvall character in this film is a Holiness preacher for those who can't seem to tell the difference between it and Baptist), I witnessed many revivals and church meetings in which people were saved. As I grew older, I grew apart from religion in general and am an Agnostic now. But I have to say that I've grown tired over the years of always seeing evangelical believers (mostly Southern) portrayed as morons and bigots. This film does an outstanding job at showing a slice of life among poor earnest believers. Duvall's performance is outstanding and worthy of Oscars. The Duvall character is an oddity, but the events that flow around him are realistic to anyone who has grown up in an environment similar to the one shown. The last scene is the best portrayal of the salvation experience I've ever seen on film. The realism of the film seems to turn some people off; no, most of the characters do not undergo change. How many people in real life undergo radical sudden change? Hopefully, films like this one and Slingblade will create a Southern Film Renaissance much like the literary Renaissance of the early 20th Century.   "},{"Title":"a deeply moving, powerful character study.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Some people called this film boring. Well, if you are looking for an action thriller, you can pass this by. If you are looking for an extremely intelligent, richly observed study of human beings,then The Apostle is nearly perfect. There are script problems..but Duvall is clearly an ACTORS director. Not a single performance in this film strikes a false note. It's not just Billy Bob Thornton and Miranda Richardson who give great performances..Duvall gets excellent acting from Farrah Fawcett and Billy Joe Shaver(!). Even the amateur actors are excellent, all of them give  natural, appealing performances. This is (probably) the best film about a clergyman since Bresson's The Diary of a Country Priest, and the most sympathetic portrayal of  pentecostal Christianity I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"One of the best of 1998!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To all the people who did not like this movie, one question why? This is a true American Drama, this is how acting should be. Robert Duvall gives an Oscar-worthy performance as the Apostle on his way to redemption, but the crime he commits you do not blame him for, in the film you are constantly rooting for him and hope that he makes it in this new town. 10/10 and 4 stars all around for this very moving film! Wonderful job, Mr. Duvall!  "},{"Title":"A thoughtful, moving piece","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle is clearly a labor of love for Duvall.  It contains within it some hard but meaningful truths and most of all a compelling performance by Duvall as a Baptist minister on the edge.What sets the movie apart from others that have delved into religion as their subject is that it has a respect for the beliefs of its protagonist while portraying him as frankly human, with all of his flaws.  Many movies would take this character and either make him into an exaggerated saint or a monstrous person whose overzealous religious dogma overshadowed his humanity.  Duvall's minister has a deep-rooted, strong faith in God, at the same time that he has had numerous affairs behind his wife's back.  His marriage has fallen apart, his wife (Farrah Fawcett) has spirited his church away from him, and he finds himself on the road, searching for direction. He finds it in a small town in Louisiana, where an abandoned church provides a new source of hopeAll of this makes the film sound like a smarmy story with lots of exclamations of Praise God! and Amen! as people clap and sing in the small church to Duvall's leading.  That could not be further from the truth. The underlying theme of the movie is in understanding real faith and the events in life that lead us to where we are.  There is a real sense in the movie that God has brought the minister to this place at this time for a reason, and that reason becomes clear towards the end.  This is a film with respect for those with the conviction to follow the leadings of their faith. You don't need to share the beliefs of the characters to appreciate this movie.There lots of wonderful small performances.  Billy Bob Thornton appears as an outspoken racist who wants to bring the upstart church crashing down. Miranda Richardson is luminous as a secretary whom Duvall pursues a relationship with.  The townspeople are all actors unknown to me but came across as real, three-dimensional characters whom you felt you knew by the end.  This is a standout movie from a terrific actor. "},{"Title":"OUTSTANDING","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love a movie that moves at the pace of a good book, As you move through a book page by page absorbing the emotions, the feel the atmosphere, you become absorbed by the pictures the words paint, well congratulations Robert Duvall for painting a masterpiece on using film as your medium. There are such simple scenes in this film such as Roberts character walking a street in a small Louisiana town and as you follow, you can feel the warm Louisiana sunshine, smell the air by the water, your senses are heightened , and why are they brought to this level, thats easy, the slow pacing like looking at a photograph is absorbed by your eyes, your mind, your soul. I've read many of the comments that have been left here by others, everyone has their own interpretation of this film ( some get it, some don't)  but thats ok, not everyone enjoys steak or prime rib, because this movie is a feast with all the fixings. The secret of watching a good movie is not analyze each and every part, but to ask yourself, how did it feel inside yourself, and if you reply, WOW, The director, producer, writer, cast, right down to the bestboy all have done their job at story telling. The Apostle is OUTSTANDING story telling. "}{"Title":"Old-fashioned movie; gently-paced,focuses on ideas,character","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle seems like a movie out of time.  It is the antithesis of today's violent, profane, frenetic, loud movies.  It moves slowly and quietly (mostly) and revolves around only 4 or 5 significant events throughout the two-hour plus running time.I would describe The Apostle as a character-study.  Duvall plays Sonny as a gifted preacher though flawed.  Duvall's performance is indeed deserving of his Oscar-nomination, but it is the only such performance in the movie. Most every other character in the movie is underdeveloped.Especially so is Farrah Fawcett as Duvall's wife. We are given little clue as to why they married in the first-place and then absolutely no reason to understand the early-in-the-movie separation.  Sonny's fall from grace misses its full impact on us since we have no appreciation for what he has lost.  Also, Miranda Richardson's character has no reason to really exist in this story as written.Although the spiritual message here is not to the letter what Christians would want, I think most Christians would enjoy and recommend this movie to fellow Christians.  Those who are not Christians should enjoy the movie as well since the movie is not really about Christianity in particular, but faith and redemption.Overall, Duvall is to be applauded for bringing to the screen a rare realistic view of a preacher or even a Christian for that matter.  His character of Sonny is a memorable one.  The movie is enjoyable in its gentle pacing, but as one finishes watching the final thought is this  a wonderful character played by the perfect actor, but a movie that misses the chance it had to be a classic with a better story and more-developed supporting cast.Rating  7       "},{"Title":"It'll take some patience to get through this movie, but it's worth your time.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is definitely not for the action thrill seeking high pace mainstream movie goer.  The Apostle takes the subject of good old revival style southern preaching, and patienty explores it through an in depth development of Robert Duvall's superbly acted character, Sonny the Apostle E.F.  Duvall's conflicted spiritual acting harkens back to his role in Tender Mercies, and carries this movie.  Extended preaching scenes do justice to the energetic and invigorating sermons featured in this film. The final scene, a slow actual time sequencing, gives the viewer a reaistic impression of how it would be in the actual church house in a way no time condensed version could.  The final product almost has a documentery feeling, even though it is most definitely structured as a drama.  The plot revolves around the classic model of a protagonist's fall and redemption - addressed in religious terms that seem to transcend the movie's particular circumstances to address deeper human issues such as the nature of forgiveness.  The entire picture is a beautiful aside into a world found nowhere else in cinema. "},{"Title":"Good but too showy","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie got a lot of praise for the fact that Duvall presented a rare sympathetic portrait of a preacher, and I can echo that praise, but not wholeheartedly.  It is true we see Sonny, or E.F., as a flawed but recognizable human, and Duvall not only distances his character from the racism the South has been accused of, but also the intolerance of other religions(the scene where he watches a different service and says in essence, You got your way, I got mine, but we both want the same thing. shows his tolerance).  But I'm a little disturbed by the fact that Duvall seems to emphasize the showy aspects of religion (the shouting out of Praise Jesus) over the more spiritual aspects of religion. "},{"Title":"Holy Ghost Power!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's worth the price of admission just to see Robert Duvall's tour de force performance.  His preaching scenes are potent, realistic, and thoroughly entertaining.  A well-deserved Oscar nomination. The movie itself is quite absorbing, directed with a very patient hand by Duvall. Very realistic, and has some similarity to Sling Blade, but it is  just not as powerful. The ending struck me as anticlimactic, and didn't make as strong an impact as it could have. Also, I thought the scene with Billy Bob Thornton and the tractor was just silly. See the movie, though, for it provides a great character study of a deeply religious but flawed man.  "},{"Title":"Fine acting, poor script","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Duvall is, without doubt, one of the finest actors on the C20th screen. Unlike so many superstars (Nicholson, Pacino, Hoffman), you forget he's Duvall within the first couple of minutes of his performance. The Apostle is no exception.Here we have a completely three-dimensional view of a man carrying personal demons and plenty of psychological baggage. Duvall certainly deserved his Academy Award nomination.The central idea of the movie is also very strong preacher seeks redemption from past deeds by once more bringing the power of the Word to a small community.But Duvall the actor, executive producer and director is not equalled by Duvall the writer. I sat watching with the constant niggle that something was missing. And as the final credits scrolled, and reminded me that Farrah Fawcett, Billy Bob Thornton, Miranda Richardson and a handful of others had been on screen, I got the sudden revelation that none had had a part anywhere near as round as Duvall's.This truly is a one-man movie. Even though the director is on screen for virtually every shot, it's not an egotistical piece. But it's not a deep as it could have been. Which is a great shame. Because with an antagonist of some kind, this would have risen from good film to masterpiece.Watch it, but only for the central performance. And for the two black children playing their ukelele. They're great.  "},{"Title":"stunning, captivating, and... no, that's it.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hmmm... this movie is an eyebrow raiser. Only after the movie, however, not during it. I must admit, throughout the movie I was pinned to my seat by Duvall's outstanding performance - for that matter, everyone's performance. The acting and fluidity of the writing were equal in their superiority. HOWEVER my main complaint about the movie is that it doesn't move on a macroscopic level. The movie, as well as Duvall's character, starts at point A and ends at point A (well, prison, but that's not the point here). Only a few character changes existed in this movie, namely Thornton and the mechanic guy. Those instances were fantastic but lacked in creating a capitulated effect for two hours. Excellent acting, superb dialogue, riveting. Plot - what? Conclusion the movie as a whole was very static. It was good static, and hypnotizing, so I watched the whole thing intently, but in the end I stood up and thought - why'd I just watch two hours worth of static? Again, hmmm...  "},{"Title":"Duvall's masterpiece","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After watching this film, all one can say is wow!! Robert Duvall comes through big in this film about the life of a fascinating man who makes a mistake and decides to start off anew. Duvall spent many years writing and trying to get his film picked up and all efforts came to no avail. Duvall ended up financing and directing the film himself which makes the success of the film all the more fascinating.Duvall plays the Apostle E.F., the shouting, ranting, Jesus-infested man who has lived the church for his entire life. Every word he speaks is Jesus, everything he does is Jesus and everywhere he goes, he goes with Jesus. All seems to being going well for him until his unsatisfied wife leaves him for a younger man, taking along his beauties (children) with her. This film is a delightful story of a man most people know or have met at some time in their lives. Duvall did well to keep himself on screen throughout the film so that the audience could get a good idea of who he was and how he reacted to different situations. This movie is my favourite of 1998 and is recommended to all.8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Closer to a real live Christian than Hollywood gives us","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  IN DEFENSE OF THE APOSTLEAs Michael Medved and many religious conservatives have observed, Hollywood routinely vilifies devout Christians as hateful, dangerous zealots, both low-brow and ignorant.  This well-founded complaint, though, is actually a protest against stupid scripts, against stories that employ sensational stereotypes because they are an easy way to mask an absence of ideas. Inadvertently, such gross exaggeration cheapens differences, and ignores the valid and sensible reasons people have for holding disparate worldviews. With films like THE RAPTURE taking frequent and egregious aim at them, Christians (currently joined by Arabs, homosexuals, Italians, and Republicans) have cause to be offended.  Last year, however, partly to satisfy a lifelong passion and partly to apologize for Hollywood's insensitivity, Robert Duvall directed, acted in, and self-financed THE APOSTLE, a marvelously intelligent drama about living life as a human and as a Christian in a world full of temptation.  As a practising Christian and cinephile, I not only appreciated Duvall's gesture, but admired his artistic achievement as well.Yet now I see that THE APOSTLE is being attacked in some Christian circles. While reviewing these criticisms, I realized that the carping is grounded in expectations unfulfilled, rather than in thoughtful analysis.  The movie's protagonist, Euliss Sonny Dewey, is a gifted Pentecostal minister who commits a terrible crime, undergoes a spiritual crisis, and does not arrive at the kind of redemption that usually occurs in religious plays.  THE APOSTLE isn't about redemption, though.  Instead, it takes on themes far more elaborate than the platitudes about grace and repentance typical of most Christian movies.  This is a film about religion and sin, to be sure, but more importantly, it's about how God and the love of Jesus relate to the everyday human condition.Rather than the idealistic version many fundamentalists would prefer, Sonny is a flawed Christian, and this is what makes some Christian viewers uneasy. Sanitized entertainment aside, are fictional saints more compelling than actual human beings, with all their mistakes, flaws, and misguided thoughts? Central to Christian doctrine is that all people are sinners and fall short of the glory of God, and indeed, the prideful Sonny fits the description.  His mistakes are admitted; this is a fallen man who does not rationalize his actions and who struggles mightily with his heart.  This is a man who is working on his personal life but experiences serious setbacks. What Christian cannot relate?  Or are we to believe, despite what Scripture claims, that all Christians are sinless and free from temptation? Furthermore, is it honest to depict the quest for righteousness as an easy task?  To me, THE APOSTLE achieves dramatic intensity and Christian relevance because it acknowledges the battle between the Holy Spirit and man's sin nature that, according to Scripture, occurs within the heart of all Christians.  Duvall's creation of Sonny is closer to a real live Christian than Hollywood has produced in decades.  He gets us thinking about how theology should and can affect our daily actions.Yet, critic Chris Stamper complains in the fundamentalist magazine WORLD that the film is unsubtle and silly.  Reading his entire review, I noticed that a serious discussion of Duvall's intentions and complex themes is glaringly missing.  Is it possible that Stamper, uncomfortable with the portrayal of Sonny's flaws, is searching for a way-any way-to condemn the film without actually calling it blasphemous?  He certainly does substitute shallow vitriol for moral commentary.  Why?  Perhaps this decision allows him to attack the movie without sacrificing his intellectual credibility as a film critic.  It doesn't work, though, because the moment he chose not to think the film through, he willingly relinquished that credibility.  Like many critics who feign superiority when they have nothing valuable to say, Stamper cloaks his own critical shortcomings with puerile snideness.This dismissive approach is disturbingly common in so-called religious film criticism (for proof, read Medved's take on THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST, which tries to disarm the film by calling attention to idiotic touches like Harvey Keitel's bozo wig rather than to its pensive theological questioning).  This superficiality, however, preaches only to the converted.  Such a know-nothing, trite form of moralizing validates stereotypical perceptions of Christians, and gives the movie industry no reason to offer more fair-minded films like THE APOSTLE.ERIC BELTMANN  "},{"Title":"great acting, great cast, inadequate character","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This may be Duvall's best acting.  Everyone in a supporting role is superb. The problem is that even though Apostle E.F. is a fascinating mix of tremendous goodness with dreadful capacity for sin, he is not a compelling mixture of these qualities.Duvall needed to give us more to care about in this man.  Perhaps it would help if some of his church services had actual sermons, and therefore, some substance.  Maybe the audience needed to see a stronger connection between him and the people who should be closest to him his wife, children, and mother.Oh well.  This is still a first-class film, with, for an American movie, an unusually solid and unselfish ensemble of actors. "},{"Title":"a delightful surprise","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duvall plays a Southern preacher who has killed his wife's lover in a fit of passion, and knowing his crime would eventually catch up with him, tries to bring the Lord to as many people as he can. What's remarkable about this movie is that it avoids the Hollywood stereotype of a religious loony and instead shows us a man who, while flawed, is aware of his flaws but is still able to bring faith and hope to others. Yes, he is gung-ho, and at first his character made me uneasy--but as I was drawn into his life, the wonderful simple people he meets, and the little church he starts that keeps getting bigger, I found myself deeply moved by his faith and the joy he was able to give to others. You think you know what is going to happen, but this movie is not predictable--and even after the inevitable occurs, Sonny's faith never wavers, and neither does his dedication to bringing the Lord to others. Halleluiah for Robert Duvall and this wonderful, under-rated film. "}{"Title":"It moves slowly, but is really an outstanding movie.  Among the best.","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am not familiar with this type of preaching.  Robert Duvall really makes his preacher believable, both in his faults and in his strengths.  Certainly one of the best new movies that I have seen in a long time.  The story will seem slow to those who demand violence every 5 minutes, but slowness is really necessary to give the full picture of the Apostle as he develops as circumstances change.  A really outstanding movie. "},{"Title":"Destined to become an American Classic","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  THE APOSTLE is a piece of Americana from a fast-disappearing era.  The story of a deeply flawed man who can heal the flaws in others.  A man lustful for the good things of life in small-town America, but who willingly recognizes that he is only a step away from having absolutely nothing.  A man who craves power and influence over others, but who can perform tremendous acts of generosity for those in need.  A man who has an instinctive ability to understand human psychology.  A big fish in a little pond.To see Robert Duvall's character directly, forcefully, and without hesitation lead a dying man to the gates of heaven is one of the most powerful scenes in American cinema.  Duvall's character could have been an interrogator, policeman or used-car salesman.  Instead, he puts his talents at the service of his Lord.  If he, himself, should benefit in a material way, well, that must be the Lord's will, too.  This is a film about people at end-of-the-line America. This is not a perfect film, but captures some of the essence of America perfectly. "},{"Title":"Duvall Defines Redemption","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was born and raised in the South.  Be assured that, in the renditions of character in The Apostle, nothing was over the top.  If you want to see a splendid portrayal of the process of redemption in its most elemental form, see The Apostle.The Apostle and L.A. Confidential tied for best picture of 1997, the fatuously awarded Titanic notwithstanding. "},{"Title":"Riveting","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The funny thing is I'm not a religious guy by any means.  However, I couldn't help but be drawn in by Robert Duvall and his portrayal of an extraordinary preacher.  All through the story E.F. knew his past would eventually catch up with him, so he did as much as he could to save others. I didn't find the film as moving as others, but this is just one of those experiences that grabs your attention until the end.  I'm not any more religious because of this movie, but religion and faith is not necessarily what this story is all about.  It is simply about a man trying mightily to battle the evil within himself and those he touches while using religion as the vehicle.  One could find many flaws by looking deep enough, but the power of Duvall's performance is so undeniable, who cares?  I would almost classify this movie as a fantasy, but if you are religious than obviously you would take it a lot more seriously. "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall avoids stereotype, takes us to higher ground.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Robert Duvall's THE APOSTLE, we are treated not only to a tour de force performance by one of the world's greatest actors, but are taken on a remarkable journey through a land that is both foreign and familiar the back woods and waters of the Bible Belt.  Writer-director-star Duvall plays `Sonny' Dewey, a Pentecostal preacher in Texas who suddenly loses his church and family when he accidentally kills his wife's lover (his own youth pastor) in a fit of anger.  Sonny takes to the road and re-baptizes himself as `The Apostle E.F.,' and eventually rallies the citizens of a tiny Louisiana hamlet and starts a new church, zealous as ever to serve God in spite of his all-too-human flaws&#133;and a past that is slowly catching up with him.Southern preachers are a staple of Hollywood, usually portrayed as frauds, hypocrites, and loonies.  Duvall dares to take Sonny seriously, refusing to stereotype him or any of the uniquely weird and wonderful people he encounters along the way.  No wonder Hollywood turned its back on this project, which Duvall himself eventually financed from his own pocket, and which went on to win Independent Spirit Awards for Best Feature, Best Director and Best Male Lead.  The casting and performances are exceptional--Farrah Fawcett as the preacher's wife, Miranda Richardson as a Southern belle, and actual Holiness preachers and congregations lending a remarkable realism to the film.  One leaves the theater profoundly affected by this well-nigh biblical character with a heart for Jesus and feet of clay.  The depth, complexity and humanity of all the characters elevates them--and us--to a common, higher ground.  "},{"Title":"humanity personified","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie felt too natural to be a film.  Duvall gave one of the finest performances I have ever seen.  His insight into this preacher's soul was amazing and inspiring.  This is Americana encapsulated for all to view.Hollywood would have made it bigger than life, I liked this because it was as small as life.  Life is full of sordid details and imperfections.  Duvall chose to portray the good with the bad, and enabled movie-goers to experience what comes from powerful stories portrayed by a wonderful supporting cast.I found John Beasley's performance the strongest I have seen from a supporting character, possibly ever.If only Hollywood and the movie moguls could make more human stories like this, life would be too sweet.  While nothing blew up, this movie had action and power in it.The story leads in ways I never expected to be led.  In the time of high predictability in movies, this one had small surprises, some good, some bad - all very real!Kudos to Duvall for going that extra mile on his one way trip! "},{"Title":"The singing awakens in you as the story evolves","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In the beginning you kind of get nauseous of so much fanaticism and religious monotony characteristic in  suburban contexts where routine atrophies spiritual experience and commitment,  but as the film develops and the plot surrounds itself in more  austere and simplistic ambiances the spiritual meaning denudes itself from its inert obstacles to reveal the true and simple spiritual experience expressed through joy, motivation and chant. As the story evolved I found myself singing along and transported to the micro sanctuary of the little chapel. "},{"Title":"A must-see","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duvall's portrayal of E.F., Sonny, or whatever you would like to call him is simply amazing.  Duvall has created an imperfect hero, a hero much easier to relate to because he has shortcomings and flaws.  If you're looking for Billy Graham, you won't find him in this movie, but what you will find is a flawed hero with whom we other flawed human beings can relate to.  If you don't watch another movie this year, at least watch _The Apostle_. "},{"Title":"A truly inspirational piece","Date":"22 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Apostle is, by far, the greatest movie of 1997. BETTER than Titanic. It's really a shame that Robert Duvall had to invest almost all of his own money to finance this film. People that he counted on to be there turned their backs on him. But that didn't stop Duvall from making this remarkable, powerful movie. If you're not moved by this movie, you must be either 1) Stone Cold, 2) Satan, or 3) Dead.  "},{"Title":"moral","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I saw the film with my lover he said, Who knew he could preach! when Duval performed his final sermon. It is an awe-inspiring performance. I am a pastor's kid and my father was good, Duval shows greatness. In the film Duval's character is deeply flawed but also deeply faithful. What makes this film great is a clear view of evil to redemption to punishment to resolution. In 97 there were only two truly moral flms. Very different films. Boogie Nights for family values and loyalty, and The Apostle about redemption. What and incredible year with two profound films in the same year. "}{"Title":"Sonny's one-sided talks with God are worth the price of admission","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `The Apostle'.  **1/2.  (1997, USA, PG-13. Directed, written by, and starring Robert Duvall with Farrah Fawcett, Billy Bob Thornton). Euliss Sonny Dewey (Duvall) is the Apostle E.F.  He's a rainmaker, music man, and seller of dreams.  The dream in `The Apostle' is a one way road to heaven.  If you get on the plane with Sonny, you'll fly past the moon, the planets, and the stars, and go straight to heaven.  Say, `Amen!' Sonny's story begins in childhood when his nanny takes him to church with her.  Sonny gets the call when he's twelve and there's no stopping him.  He's God's servant.  Sonny ends up in Texas.  He's head of a large urban church, married with two kids, and just as much a sinner as a saint.  His wife (Fawcett) is a preacher in the church and also a part time sinner.  Her favorite sin is sleeping with the assistant pastor.  Sinner Sonny yields to his rage and uses a baseball bat to send the assistant pastor to his Lord. Sonny has to leave town in a hurry and find a new flock and a place to hide from the Texas Rangers.  He makes it to Louisiana.  There he finds a flock without a shepherd and like all good rainmakers he helps them build a dream.  He starts a radio show.  He rebuilds a church in the wild wood.  He fixes the old town bus and personally goes out and brings people to church on Sunday morning. He even gets the town bully (Thornton) to lay down his arms and come to Jesus.   Unfortunately `The Apostle' the movie doesn't know when to say `Amen.'  More accurately it's like going to Sunday school, church, and staying for Vespers.  The preamble is longer than the movie.  Unlike other rainmakers in the movies, Sonny doesn't just get off the train or show up one day in the middle of a drought.  We have to wait through too much of Sonny's personnel life before he gets to his lost flock in Louisiana.  I really liked the last half of this movie.  Duvall's acting is excellent and worth seeing.  And Sonny's one-sided talks with God are worth the price of admission.  A mixed review, but overall I recommend seeing `The Apostle.' "},{"Title":"Thank You Mr. Duvall!","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Quite simply the finest film ever put on celluloid!  This film has inspired me and changed my life...I feel a Holy Ghost Revival coming on.  God bless Mr. Duvall and all those associated with this film I will treasure forever!!! "},{"Title":"respectful towards religious folk","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In recent years, it seems that religion has become one of the most divisive issues in our country, with the right claiming that God wants them to ban abortion and gay marriage, and the left asserting that the United States should be completely atheist. The Apostle shows that neither of these arguments are on the right path.Written, directed by, and starring Robert Duvall as Southern preacher Sonny Dewey, the movie does what few manage. Whereas most Hollywood movies would jump at the chance to vilify a religious Southerner - or at least make him look silly - this one shows that Sonny actually believes in what he's doing (and that these religious gatherings are the only way that these destitute people ever get to come together). Now, the movie doesn't go overboard in adoring its subject. Sonny, like anyone, has his own demons to deal with. The main question is what will eventually become of his actions.All in all, this is a great movie. Duvall does a masterful job in front of and behind the camera. Also starring are Farrah Fawcett (yes, one of Charlie's angels in a movie about a preacher), Billy Bob Thornton, June Carter Cash and Miranda Richardson, all perfect in their roles. I recommend this movie to everyone. "},{"Title":"interesting, no matter what cultural prism you view it from","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having lived in and adapted to a number of cultures around the world, I found myself amazed at the variety of interpretations that could be applied to this film depending on which flavor of Koolaid you had been drinking most recently. The depiction of fundamentalist Christians was spot on - the good, the bad, and the ugly. If this film has a flaw, it may be that it is too ambiguous. It does not condemn the judgment of a congregation who worships a semi-charlatan nor really justify the actions of a woman who has been used and manipulated by a sweet-talking devil. As such, it perpetuates a lot of the mythology that continues to allow charismatic Christianity to flourish, and does the parts of the country still under thrall to this a disservice. To the extent that it exposes the evil that the hero worship of very human and flawed leaders - who profess direct contact and support from divinity - can do, it is a pretty good flick. "},{"Title":"Is there a method to this madness?","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I know many of you have said the Robert Duvall's acting was brilliant but at last a voice of reason. If Robert Duvall could add this character to the classic One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest then I'd call it brilliant.  As a movie which tried to look at the human side of a Southern preacher, it fell flat on its face.  Sonny is as crazy as they come!  Didn't anyone else think the whole movie was ridiculous?  I am very familiar with the topics covered in this film and let me just say that this was more for Hollywood than the average person.  Duvall went out of his way as Sonny to seem normal or flawed but it just seemed like overkill halfway through the movie.  The scene where he baptizes himself was pure lunacy.The Apostle tries to make you feel sorry for a man who is lustful, violent, eccentric, and self-important.  Sonny beats a man to death with a baseball bat, falls in love with a married woman, beats up and adversary, and starts his own church to make him feel better about himself.  Where's the repentant heart?   If you expect me to sympathize with 'Ol Sonny then you're sadly mistaken.  He deserved to be hauled off to *** or actually Bellevue would have probably fared him better. Steve Martin did a much better job of this in Leap of Faith and this movie was a comedy and not to be taken seriously.On top of all these glaring faults, The Apostle at times moves along at a snails pace and takes up way too much time to tell a story of much ado about nothing.   "},{"Title":"An actor's movie","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Really, I cannot say much more it's an actor's movie. Robert Duvall chose this because he felt it would be a very interesting part to play, but for the viewer the story is not very interesting.The acting is great, for sure, but is that hero a man you want to follow for about two hours? Is he someone you'll want to see on the verge of madness, or possessed, but who can also be touching in his own way? I acknowledge that to me the Apostle kind of preachers are an alien form of intellectual life, still, apart from that, I don't think this character has the depth and potential character arc to bear one full feature on his shoulders.Robert Mitchum in Night of the Hunter was much more interesting. He was really the main character, yet the camera was not siding with him. It was an actor's movie too, but Charles Laughton did concentrate on his job as a director. "},{"Title":"A very confused man on the run","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I only gave it a ten because Robert Duvall was in it, and also June Carter Cash.Sonny was a stupid SOB who thought he was doing the Lords work. Don't misunderstand me, I'm not a particularly religious person myself, but I think I'm intelligent enough to know that men of god don't go around drinking whiskey, and killing people with baseball bats, then running away, and of all the nerve, starting a new ministry.Some of the folks seemed to like him, but I couldn't stand the bastard he was a drunk, a womanizer, and by all indications a blasphemer.I loved the movie, because I hated Sonny so much, which is a tribute to Duvall for doing such a good job of portraying him.Thanks for letting me express my opinion. "},{"Title":"boring storyline trumps great acting","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the only movie that I have literally walked out of for sheer boredom.  Needless to say, I won't be revealing the end of the story here.Robert Duvall puts in a stunning performance.  However, the storyline has none of the Duvall's depth and simply unfolds, or perhaps unravels, in a meandering and uninteresting sequence.  "},{"Title":"Self-indulgent mess","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just because the main character is oh so COMPLEX does not mean the movie is going to be interesting. And just because Robert Duvall is one of the greatest actors in the world does not mean he is also going to be a great director and screenplay writer. The Apostle certainly supports the idea that great actors make lousy directors.Obviously I am of the minority opinion. Much like a charismatic preacher with a gullible flock, this movie seems to have bamboozled a large number of respectable critics and laypeople, including my brother whom I love and who insisted I watch this movie. Whether I will be able to forgive him remains to be seen.Like many actor-directed projects, this one creaks under the weight of its creator's humongous ego. As somebody else here rightfully pointed out, Duvall is way too old to play a guy who was a toddler in 1939, whose mother looks like his wife, is married to Farrah Fawcett and who would slobber over Miranda Richardson without her laughing at him as a dirty old man. Apparently Duvall did not want to let a younger actor play Sonny because he could not resist the chance to preach.And does he ever preach. All the time. At least 80% of the scenes consist of him preaching. (SPOILER COMING) Even when he is about to be arrested for the murder of his wife's lover, we still have to put up with 20 minutes of preaching and singing and shouting and praising the Lord before the police can finally lead him away. An actual sermon would not go on as long as this movie does at two hours and 14 minutes. The Apostle is a sermon punctuated by the occasional plot point.And unless Sonny was going to get some sorely needed humility quickly I did not care what became of him. He is a despicable character but not very interesting in his odium because as we hear over and over ad nauseum he Loves the Lord and therefore is not a villain. He is Complex. He has Weaknesses. Apparently he cheated on his wife because they talk about it. Why they couldn't have substituted one womanizing scene for one of the many preaching scenes is unknown. What makes the movie so boring is that this supposedly complex character does not develop. He does not change. He does not undergo any spiritual experiences himself despite the fact that he is a murderous drunk. The phrase Physician, heal thyself comes to mind. One could say here Preacher, save thyself.Why so many people are singing this movies praises is odd though not entirely a mystery. A brilliant actor directed it. It is about Serious Matters and it attempts to do something Different. Its settings are rural which seems to charm a lot of people. And it certainly seems to go out of its way to avoid being confused with entertainment. No, it aspires to be High Art. Just because it has aspirations does not mean it succeeds in those aspirations. It is a prolonged, self-congratulatory, one-note, boring, plot less abomination. "},{"Title":"Bible Thumping and Film Reeling.","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duvall (Oscar-nominated) goes wild on his wife's (Farrah Fawcett) lover and has to leave his small Texas town to avoid the authorities. He fakes his own death by pushing his car into a river and goes to a small community in rural Louisiana. Soon he is preaching the gospel and doing good work for the area. However trouble looms when a crazed man (basically a cameo for Billy Bob Thornton) threatens not only Duvall, but the church itself. Also there is always the possibility of Duvall being caught by the authorities for his crime in Texas. Hit and miss over-achiever here as Duvall's shortcomings as a writer and director are only saved by his uncanny talents as a lead actor. Thornton is not utilized enough and the rest of the people are under-developed southern stereotypes. More upside than down, but still only memorable for Duvall's enthusiastic take on the material. 4 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"some funny scenes","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a serious movie but it has some funny scenes.  Robert Duvall and FarrahFawcett do good jobs at acting.  The music is authentic.  I have seen it several times.  First time I thought it was boring until I saw the funny scenes.  I would give it a 10 out of 10.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Lazy day movie","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A decent film powered along by an astonishing performance by Robert Duvall. Other than him though it's frankly a little dull with only the scenery adding any comfort. Duvall stars as a wayward preacher who, after one too many run-ins with his ex-wife and her new lover, finds himself on the run and wanted for murder. He ends up in a tiny village in the middle of nowhere and begins to rebuild his life knowing full well that the Police will close in on him eventually. You feel very much for Duvall because you can see the power and belief of his character and the self-destructive streak that results. It's also probably the best religious film ever made due to it's generally pro-Christianity atmosphere but also it's unwillingness to shirk from the fact that we are all, at the end of the day, merely human. This balanced perspective allows it to not be to depressing or to sugar-coated. Still, it drags a little in places and the lack of any real supporting characters puts too much emphasis on Duvall. He's great don't get me wrong, but a little more exploration of those around him wouldn't have gone amiss. "},{"Title":"Do as I say; not do as I do.","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Written and directed by Robert Duvall who stars in this drama about a fervent, volatile Pentecostal preacher who is struggling with his own personal demons. Duvall is dynamic as the colorful 'Sonny' Dewey. Less than interesting in support are Farrah Fawcett and Billy Bob Thornton. The subject matter did not flesh out as shocking as it was probably intended. Duvall is impressive in the fact that he can work so hard and make it look easy. Outside of finding June Carter Cash annoying, I found THE APOSTLE to be very interesting and a good test of where you place your sympathy, compassion and faith.  "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall as Writer, Director, Producer and Actor","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After appearing in 'Phenomenon', Robert Duvall went on to write, direct, produce and act in his own film in the same year that Al Pacino did the same in 'Looking for Richard'. Having received success from 'The Godfather' films, both Pacino and Duvall go on to make their own films, and both films die a sad death. There was nothing remotely reverent about Duvall's character as an apostle. He was merely Robert Duvall carrying a bible, but he was not an apostle. The Pentecostal church scenes were authentic, and he would have done himself justice by casting someone from the Pentecostal community to play the leading role. Maybe a Black Englishman could have carried it off better. "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall walks on water...but, the Prophet sinks beneath the waves","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love you, Robert, and I loved the Texas and Louisiana location shots. Hey, the revivalist church scenes held my interest, for all of five minutes. And Farrah (yes, a Texas native), well, you did a credible job.  But, an Oscar nomination (for Duvall)?  Strains all credulity!  An Oscar for Most Boring Movie you'll ever see, in my opinion.  Also, pointless, plotless and just ess.  Leave it be on the 99 cent rack, folks, there's nothing here. "},{"Title":"Duvall is spectacular","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Duvall is nothing less than superb in this movie.  I don't recall him playing a more believable character ever before.  The one disappointment in the movie was the church scenes.  I belong to a Christian church with enthusiastic members and Pastors.  However, they don't stand around screaming the same one liners the entire time and I don't recall ever being in a church that did.  They usually have a message for the day and it is different all the time.  I am sure some more research could have been done to make the church scenes more realistic.  I might have had more compassion for E.F.'s situation had he gained more of my respect by giving a great sermon. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This may actually be the worst movie I have ever seen - Buffalo Nickel is a close second. It is the story of a preacher who is just like the rest of his congregation. Now that is a revelation. Aren't all preachers human. He has his faith and his faults. Surprise, surprise.It seems to me anyone could go around yelling, singing and preaching like Duvall. The incessant preaching and bible thumping is truly very nerve racking. It could actually make a person prefer to go to hell.As an atheist it is disturbing to see so many religious people. As a critical thinker it is disappointing to realize how many people remain steeped in faith and fantasy rather that fact and reality. As a movie goer this movie is BORING!!!!! "},{"Title":"Way too long for such slight material ............","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Generally I place entertainment at the top of my list for enjoying a film. Although the acting by Robert Duvall is terrific, the movie fails as entertainment. Two plus hours of what seemed like one long church sermon is close to unbearable. Duvall's character is anything but sympathetic, considering his violent solutions, religious brain wiring of the gullible, and outrageous showmanship. He simply comes across as a religious huckster. I can truthfully say that for me, The Apostle was a huge disappointment. I'm sure that to the correct audience it will be vastly appealing. Not recommended here however. .............................. MERK "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Horror Films of All Time!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't begin to explain how chilling it is to believe that there are people walking around on our streets who are actually like this.  Duval shines in this story of a freakish preacher on a one way trip to the place of fire and brimstone.  The acting is great.  The inclusion of some of the trance inducing 'sermons' of the obviously real life charlatans is great. Thankfully, it's only a film and it ends before the collection plate comes your way. "},{"Title":"Too many yes men at work with Duvall?","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie would otherwise be fabulous if it weren't for long -- and I mean looooooong -- stretches of pointlessness, where the action, the drama, comes to a halt. One gets the impression that Duvall either didn't make enough edits, or those working with him were too afraid to make the proper edits during scenes that appear utterly self-indulgent. The best example is at the very worst time the last scene, in which E.F. is arrested. We get it already E.F. is quite a preacher. The scene should have ended, truly, at least ten minutes sooner than it did. All the drama associated with the end of E.F's preacher days is zapped by a long, tedious, ultimately pointless scene about him doing his preacher-thing to the congregation while the police officer waits at the back. I challenge anyone to find a meaning in that scene, or in others like it. At over two hours, this film could have benefited from a superior editing job. Instead, Duvall does to the film's drama what E.F. does to his wife's lover He smacks it into a coma, then kills it. A real shame. "}{"Title":"All praise the holy burning script","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It starts out pretty slow, but then it really starts dragging. The opening credits suggest that Robert Duvall wrote and directed this sleeper (and I don't mean unforeseen hit), and I'm glad it mentions that. Otherwise, you may not catch that there was any writing or directing performed. So I sat there, thinking it had to get better as I heard the same praise jesus line for the one millionth time. Then it happened; the movie ended. Oh, there is a God. The problem Just when Billy Bob shows up as the enemy  (i.e. the entertainment), he is on camera for 20 seconds and becomes at peace with the lord. The police are chasing Duvall when they should be placing an APB for the plot. If you want to see a movie that has little plot but holds its own with raw talent and pure emotion, see Ordinary People. If you want a film featuring a man who is both good and evil, see The Godfather. Don't see this film unless you want to be numbed into insanity. "},{"Title":"Cliff's Notes, please","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lured by good reviews of this 'sleeper' phenomenon, I stopped by my local video store to get a copy of this film.  Boy, when they called it 'sleeper,' they were right.  I rarely turn off a movie, but this one I did.  I found the characters, unsympathetic, not compelling and underdeveloped.  Frankly, I did not care what happened to them.  Perhaps my expectations were too high for this film touted as a drama of one man's redemption, a film of compelling characters, and a man's moral morass.  The characters were 'developed' through explicit dialogue in which they stated their intentions and why they were doing what they were doing, and by over-the-top drama where understatement was required.  I felt like I was not journeying with the characters, but being told a story in lecture format.  Until they come out with Cliff's Notes revealing the end of the story, I won't know what ever happened to that preacher.  But then again, I won't care, either. "},{"Title":"Self-indulgence","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Apostle had some good points, among them competent actors, good production values and convincing locations. The noisy Bible belt' meetings were amazing to a foreigner, but nonetheless believable.However the inappropriate casting, mumbled dialogue, and the poor script and direction appear to me to be unforgivable self-indulgences on the part of the film-maker.Duvall was about 20 years too old for the role he played. The main character was supposedly born around 1936, and the cars in the later scenes were early 1980s models, so the Duvall character would then have been about 46. In fact Duvall was 66 in 1997.For this reason, it took me some time to work out that Farah Fawcett, 16 years his junior, was his wife, not his daughter or niece. In the early scene at the car-wreck site, the woman riding with Duvall, Anne Carter Cash, born 2 years before Duvall, appeared to be his wife. Nowhere in the film was it explained how she came to give birth to the Duvall character when she was only 2 years old.And while we are on that scene, do police officers at a crash scene really stand around on the roadway chatting while in the adjacent field the injured are dying in one of the cars, with nobody paying them any attention, let alone rendering assistance? I found this astonishing, and unconvincing.With a better script and a more competent director, and of course an actor of the right age, this could have been a good movie.Peter H. "},{"Title":"Forget it.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duvall is an excellent actor.But there is no story here.  It's one of your typical films that critics love and everyone else hates.  There is no plot to speak of.  It's just a boring character study.Can Duvall carry it alone? No.  He's good, but there has to be an interesting story--and this thing just meanders repetitively and is very boring.If you like this kind of movie with religious overtones, see Inherit the Wind, Oh God!, Franco Zeferelli's Jesus of Nazareth, even Leap of Faith is better--or listen to the original cast recording of Jesus Christ Superstar.This flick is guaranteed to disappoint.  I'd have given it zero stars if they'd have let me.  "},{"Title":"worthles, non-drama","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an example of much ado about nothing . As an actor, Duvall is-and has always been -great , but I see this movie as an evidence of his intellectual decline. After all, what is the whole thing about? The preacher doesn't even undergo a dramatic change in the way he thinks or acts.I also have a comment about that bus It is usually used to take the uninformed , uneducated flock to the polls, to vote for whoever that their shepherd favors, who is the most possible conservative candidate.  "},{"Title":"an old boring character you couldn't care less about","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Praise the Lord Praise Jesus Yes Sir.  I've never seen a movie made up of just three lines, before this.  I wish it were Robert Duvall's character who got hit with the bat at the beginning of this abysmal purgatory of a movie.  "}]