[{"Title":"Ignore the anti-liberal criticisms of this film","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the most inspirational films I have seen in quite some time. I remember when this film was given the Academy award for best documentary, and hearing criticisms from some in the so-called liberal press (a reason to knock down this straw-man theory) that the film as undeserving of this title.  Well after just seeing the film on video and reading some other comments from IMDB users claiming the same thing, I will have to outright disagree.The point of this film was not about the fight itself or George Forman, (yes he played a role) as some have argued it should have.  It was about the symbolism that this fight possessed, especially revolving around Muhammad Ali' and the causes he fought for.  Recently ESPN selected the top 100 Athletes of all time (well they should have said American Athletes, but that's our American arrogance for you) and Ali was picked third behind Babe Ruth and Michael Jordan.  The definition of greatest athlete is ambiguous, but in my mind Ali, through this film and my recent is truly, The greatest as he so claimed.The film did an excellent job of getting as much footage as possible of all that occurred during the preparation that led to the fight and how it symbolized the joining of black people in America and Africa for a common cause in defeating their oppressors (US - white supremecy, and in Africa - European Colonialism).  (which was clearly the main focus of the film) Yes, their were flaws in the film, and it was carried by the narration, Ali's unbelievably charismatic personality, and the numerous intelligent quotes that were made by him.But those that wish to criticize the music as they call it, clearly have NO UNDERSTANDING OF BLACK CULTURE.  This film was a celebration of it, focusing on GREAT MUSICIANS such as James Brown and B.B. King.  These artists represent a significant part of black American culture, and knowing how important it probably was to all of those black Americans to go to Africa to spite the white American culture (which wanted the fight there), which they felt used them, was something that was revolutionary.Before seeing this film I knew little about the Rumble in the Jungle, and little about Ali, but after seeing this film, I have come to realize that he really was the greatest.9/10 "},{"Title":"The Last Hero","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"26 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  This is not a film without flaws.  At certain points, I cringe at some of the implications, at the juxtaposition of images and thoughts.  If this film were on a different topic, I would probably dislike it.That withstanding, it is a film about something so rare and exquisite, so moving, so profound a hero.  Muhammad Ali is the only man I can think of in the 20th Century deserving of this title.  Just to look at him is to feel awe.  His beauty, his conviction, his strength, his piety, all bound together in a contradictory but exquisite whole.  Ali is a Whittman poem of flesh and blood.  Shortcomings of this film aside, I can watch it again and again, and cry every time.  And feel both shame and strength, and perhaps some hope, when confronted with Ali.  If I ever have children, they will watch this film, if only because I can find nothing else that I can say stands for what I believe in. "},{"Title":"a great documentary","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  This film won a slew of critical praise (as well as quite a few awards) and it deserves all of them. Muhammad Ali is the most amazing athelete of the twentieth century and perhaps the most beloved boxer of all time. A public poll once showed that people all over the world recognized him more then the President of the United States. Maybe its because he is such an ill, tragic figure today that this film is so important because it shows him in all his glory when he was not just a magnificent boxer but a ringing voice of social conscience as well. This film shows him again in all his glory when he took on the seemingly invincible giant George Foreman. George is such a beloved figure now that people have forgotten that when he first won the Heavywieght Crown from Joe Frazier in 1973, that he was as dreaded and feared as Sonny Liston was in his heyday. Howard Cosell was one of Ali's most ardent supporters (he was one of the first to call him by that name and support him in his opposition of the draft) and yet even Cosell said that he didn't think that Ali could beat George Foreman. Ali had lost to Joe Frazier and Ken Norton and had barely won rematches with them, and Foreman knocked both of them silly in less then two rounds. Ali was almost 33 years old and considered all washed up and yet he showed no fear against this man. He told the public You think you were shocked when Nixon resigned, wait till I whip George Foreman's behind!!! This film brings that time and place in Zaire, Africa to life. Don King is a despicable character and yet he was a genius in promoting this fight in Africa. He said it was like from slaveship to championship. The symbolism was just tremendous. Norman Mailer and the late George Plimpton are two of the writers who most observed Ali and they both offer wonderful insights during the course of this film. They are especially good when they talk about the fight itself and how they both had a ringside seat. George Plimpton saw Bobby Kennedy shot and yet I don't think he was much more astounded when he saw what happened in that ring when Ali pulled off an amazing upset and knocked out Foreman to begin another glorious championship rein. It is almost comical when they show their shocked faces as Ali delivered the knockout blow. The best part of the film is where they play the song When We Were Kings at the end and show a montage of Ali's fights during his amazing career. You will look at these and realize how awesome this man truly was!!! "},{"Title":"fascinating piece of history, even for non-fight fans","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  It goes nearly without saying that Ali is a transcendent figure of his  generation. For those currently in their twenties who did not grow up in Ali era, this film is a glimpse at why the world choked up upon seeing Ali light the flame at the Atlanta Olympiad. While Gast's footage of Ali in Kinshasa is sparse, interview segments with Plimpton, Mailer and Lee, and a pulsing  soundtrack fill in the blanks to tell  a surprisingly complete tale. The characters are fascinating A young Don King, who had not yet made his name; a sullen, menacing George Foreman bearing no resemblance to the huckster we see today; the creepy Mobutu, who is rarely seen though his presence is felt, and Howard Cosell, who appears briefly to predict the defeat of the man who practically created him. Far, FAR superior to Michael Mann's Ali, which lifted huge pieces from this documentary. While Mann's film provides much more for the eye, Gast's Kings is a superior example of pure storytelling. "},{"Title":"Clearly deserving of the Oscar it received","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  I recall attending a closed circuit telecast of the Ali-Foreman fight in Miami in 1974, and when The Greatest actually pulled it off - regaining HIS title after the enforced exile - most of the audience went nuts. Rarely have I been in an environment of such absolute joy.  This first class documentary leaves me wishing I had been in Zaire to experience that emotion live.  This is terrific film making about one of the most complicated and extraordinary heroes of the twentieth century and is richly deserving of the Academy Award which it received.  "},{"Title":" Muhammad Ali, he was like a sleeping elephant. You can do whatever you want around a sleeping elephant; whatever you want. But when he wakes up, he tramples everything","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  First I must say that the editing is some of the best I have seen.WOW is the right world for this film.I have seen it four times and still I think it´s as interesting as the first time you see it.Muhammad Ali is really a genius and I think you will understand that when you see this film.The film is also very good because of people like Spike Lee,Malick Bowens and George Plimpton tells fascinating observations about the time.I'm young, I'm handsome, I'm fast, I'm pretty and can't possibly be beatThis film really made me think and I would call it a masterpiece.You will also see great MUSICIANS such as B.B King,James Brown and the Spinners.I recommend this film to everybody,you don´t even need to like boxing to love this film.5/5 "},{"Title":"Superb documentary, excellent movie.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  I watched this movie last night on CBC, my third viewing.  It keeps getting better.  As fascinating a story as one would ever hope to see in any movie. In case anyone does not know why Muhammed Ali was widely named as the athlete of the century by many in 1999.  This film will explain.Ironically, the long delay in finishing and releasing this film may have improved the finished product.  The increased perspective of more than a decade may have sharpened the editing choices.  Not a method I would recommend as it is rather hard on the artist, but we benefit in this case.It is important to recognize that whatever this film started out as, it became a study of Ali. And what a subject for study.  What an athlete, what a man. "},{"Title":"Impressive Documentary of an Historic Event!","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" The fight between Muhammad Ali aka Cassius Clay and George Foreman in Zaire. The fight was nicknamed the rumble in the jungle. The documentary follows Ali and Foreman. It also has insight from writers and witnesses, Norman Mailer and George Plimpton, and African American film director, Spike Lee, who later directed the film, Ali. This documentary is a rare treasure that captures history, culture, and relationships. Ali is the underdog in the ring against Foreman on October 30, 1974. The outcome is remarkable as is the story behind both fighters. Ali is proud of being an African American, honest, opinionated, and vocal about civil rights in America and in Africa. He was proud to see Africans who flew, lived, and governed their own country. Sadly, Ali isn't well with Parkinsons. The disease has crippled his voice but not his message in recent years. The documentary is historical for so many reasons. "},{"Title":"Anything I say I'm willin' to back up.","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" To anyone born after Muhammad Ali's heyday as a boxer, it would be difficult to describe the impact he had on American life and culture. Sure, one can read about it and watch other documentaries, but there's something to be said about experiencing it in real time with Ali's name in the headlines, proclaiming himself to be The Greatest both in and out of the ring. When We Were Kings is probably an inappropriate title for this film, it plays more like When Ali Was King, even though he wasn't World Champ at the time, having been stripped of the title for refusing the military draft. The picture does a credible job of presenting the behind the scenes machinations to bring the 'Rumble in the Jungle' to fruition, even with a six week delay due to a training injury suffered by Foreman.Thinking back to those days, I had never considered the implications of making the fight a black political statement, though in hindsight I would question allowing the involvement of a dictator like Mobutu Sese Seko putting up the money for the event. As described by Norman Mailer, one of the writers interviewed for the film, Mobutu was a closet sadist who rounded up a thousand criminals and put them in detention pens underneath the fight stadium to remove the threat of criminal activity while the eyes of the world were on his country.Don't expect to see a lot of the eight round fight in this documentary. What you need to know is capably explained by Mailer and fellow sportswriter George Plimpton laying out Ali's strategy and how he approached the fight. Mailer's analysis in particular is helpful in detailing how Ali's right hand leads so enraged Foreman that he used up a lot of his power and energy in trying to destroy him. Quite honestly though, I don't know quite what to make of the 'succubus' story that Plimpton seemed to be so fascinated with.Perhaps the most significant take away I had from the picture was hearing Spike Lee's comments that had nothing to do with the fight. He was speaking of black youth, but I would ascribe his remarks to all colors of a young generation today that remain completely unaware of history, and even worse, are disinterested in learning about it. Most certainly, Muhammad Ali would have something to say about that. "},{"Title":"Ali, Boma Ye!!","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" This is the Oscar winning documentary about the legendary boxing bout between Muhammad Ali, the challenger and George Foreman, who was the reigning world heavy weight boxing champion of the time.The match became popular as Rumble in the Jungle. it was held at Kinshasa, Zaire. Both the fighters were blacks. However, Ali was revered as a demi-God because he had spoken about the atrocities which the African Americans were facing in the US and had refused to go and fight in Vietnam. He was considered a true representative of the blacks.George Foreman, as the documentary says, was blacker than Ali. But still he was taken as the white devil incarnate.The match was promoted by Don King. the President of Zaire decided to give the financial rewards to the fighters as he planned to use the bout to promote his country and his despotic rule.the build up to the fight and then the fight itself have been captured perfectly. there are glimpses about Ali's interaction with the citizens of Zaire who constantly urge him to Ali, Boma Ye which means Ali, Kill Him.The movie is very gripping and shows the human face of the Gods of the Gloves. Two thumbs up. "}{"Title":"The greatest sporting event of all time brilliantly documented","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" This film should be made mandatory watching for all school children. Historically it covers the greatest sporting event of all time and at the same time chronicles the amazing man himself. The Champ is not just articulate and charismatic... he touched the hearts of all the oppressed people of the time. He was a poor mans champion... a ghetto superstar.I wasn't alive at the time, but the film portrays brilliantly what an underdog Ali was and how everyone half expected Foreman to kill him. Then it shows how Ali very cleverly outwitted his opponent. Psychologically Ali was a heavyweight and Foreman a lightweight. With heart and determination he overcame the colossus that was Foreman.Watching Foreman in this documentary and his awesome power... I don't believe any boxer since has had the punching power of this man. For god sake he came back at 45 and won the title! Imagine what he was like at 20. The Rumble in the Jungle destroyed Foreman... and propelled Ali onto a bigger stage. It was held in Zaire, rebels were fighting, the dictator Mobutu, Don King in his prime, James Brown, the succubus, the witch doctors, Boom-aye, Ali, Foreman... The world must have shaken that night. This documentary makes the hairs on the back of neck stand up... imagine what it must have been like to be alive at that time. "},{"Title":"More than just a good boxing story, it's an examination of cultural history","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  To focus only on Ali (like or dislike), or just the significance of the boxing match alone, would be missing the point of this movie. Tell your friends that it's not just a sports movie! It is a Documentary that focuses not only on the fight, but on the black culture in the U.S. and Zaire. That's culture as defined by its people, music, athletes, politics, business and other innumerable parts, as observed by several different people, inside and outside.The insights offered by George Plimpton and Norman Mailer are priceless. It's history and entertainment together, and thoroughly enjoyable to watch. It would be simplistic and unjust to reject the Documentary because of personal prejudices or disagreement with Ali's politics. It is also a mistake to isolate and criticize colourful comments, chants and poetry (!)that were uttered purely to entertain and psych the opponent.Not only was Ali a great boxer and a great entertainer, he is an intelligent and articulate man. He uses his high profile to deliver messages of racial pride, heritage, hope and peace. The fact that Parkinson's Disease has physically afflicted and almost silenced this man is a tragedy. We have been deprived of hearing what the 26 years of life experience since 1974 may have done to Ali's outlook and beliefs. Writing this has inspired me to go to the library; maybe he hasn't been silenced totally, and someone is talking for him. Like this film, it's a subject worth investigating! "},{"Title":"The Pride of the Difference ...","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" While watching When We Were Kings, I was distracted by many what if questions what if Foreman had won that match in Zaire? What if Ali had lost? What if it was a flop? etc. Cynically, I assumed that had Ali lost, the documentary wouldn't have been made, but then I remembered that it waited 22 years to be made, and receive the Academy Award for Best Documentary in 1997. In other words, it wasn't supposed to 'make a film'; it was a legend from the very start.And Rumble in the Jungle is the nostalgic celebration of the most legendary episode of Boxing History, through a recollection of images and stories from those who witnessed the event. It's a treasure in terms of archive footage, musical sequences, and extraordinary shots of Ali haranguing his African fans and shining everyone with his unique charisma or Don King discussing the black condition with James Brown. The match is almost secondary while the film is more of a magnificent tribute to the enormous contribution of African American people in sport and entertainment. Some would think that the genius of people is better measured on fields such as science, medicine, physics, literature or politics, but in these times, sport and music was the most likely medium where African American people could express their voice.And sport is probably the noblest expression of Humanity's true spirit self-accomplishment, victory and respect. While science and literature cruelly depend on the level of education one has received, sport is universal; it's no-money learning anyone can develop physical abilities with his own will. In a world full of segregation, sport offers the less segregationist environment. While intelligence can be used to disguise ignorance, strength cannot disguise weakness, the strongest is the strongest. Boxing is probably the most straight-forward incarnation of the true essence of sport, and on that discipline, Muhammad Ali was the greatest, a sort of semi-God like figure who had to prove his physical strength, before it transcended the limits of the ring, even at the risk of becoming an unpopular figure, an outcast &#x85; but sometimes, it's this very status that paves the way to the legend.One has to remember how truly unpopular Ali became when he refused to fight in Vietnam. As recalls Spike Lee, interviewed in the documentary, it's not just the refusal but the way it was stated No Vietcong ever called me a N-word. Ali shouted what every member of his community was secretly thinking, he had the guts to refuse to be a government's puppet, he lost his Heavyweight Champion title and couldn't fight for several years, but what it cost him in sports, elevated him above all the other athletes more than a spokesperson, he became a living icon, a myth and a model. Basically, his refusal taught people one thing that one can't ask for respect if he doesn't respect himself. And the man who 'shook up the world' by defeating Sonny Liston had too much self-esteem to fight against people he's got nothing against just because he's told to do so. Respect starts with self-respect and even school can't teach you to respect yourself.This is why the documentary might be guilty of a certain bias toward Ali, but it doesn't denigrate Foreman either. He is the 'quiet yet invulnerable' force, a Fighting Machine that knocked out and dethroned Joe Frazier after a technical knock-out, but his lack of flamboyance and eccentricity allowed Ali to conquer the hearts of all the Zairian people. Basically, Rumble in the Jungle could have been subtitled the Ali show. The film isn't pro-Ali or anti-Foreman, it even manages to draw a sort of retrospectively sympathetic portrait of 'Big George' who just couldn't outsize Ali, popularity-wise. An unfortunate irony is that even as a darker person, Foreman incarnated the 'White man' for the people, by arriving at the airport with a blonde shepherd, symbol of the previous Belgian colon. Misunderstood, Foreman also misunderstood the public, and the whole fight's symbolism, he showed as an African American man, while Ali was exalting the pride of the difference, this pride that started when he refused to assign.And this is exactly this pride of the difference that the film conveys through Ali's exuberant personality, even the title works like a slogan reminding that there was a time where Africa was the mother of humanity, when there was a pride to be Black, and people like Ali revived that pride. The film powerfully encapsulates the spirit within the black people in America or Africa, this 'Booma ye!' spirit ,where it was not about wanting to be 'assimilated', but to be 'respected'. Difference, not assimilation &#x85; and never had the Black pride been as authentic, as sincere, as expressed by Muhammad Ali, an equal of Nelson Mandela, Malcolm X and ironically to Patrice Lumumba who was ordered to be killed by the very President of Zaire, Mobutu himself. When We Were Kings provides an important slice of African life under dictatorship, proving that the people still had inner demons to exorcise, undermining the path to liberty.Nothing positive can be dictated by terror and beyond the whole show, orchestrated by Don King, Ali and Foreman were not there to express an antagonism, but to play a game, it was a performance. And the film, although trying sometimes to convey a false sense of suspense by depicting Ali as a challenger who had almost no chance to win -a theory contradicted by most boxing experts- the legend preceded the match. How about the victory then? Well, I guess my what if questions were unthinkable in Ali's mind. It's as if, as a Muslim, he believed that some things were like written by God (or Allah) himself wanted to make reality even more appealing as fiction. Indeed, while When We Were Kings is a documentary and a damn good one, I felt it as emotionally gripping as a fiction. "},{"Title":"When We Were Kings An Opinion","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" I don't believe the film is as flawed as some of the previous reviewers have stated. The footage was all from the early 70's and in that sense this is truly a film of it's time. This is a time and a place that doesn't exist any more, and even Zaire doesn't really exist anymore, its now the Democratic Republic of the Congo. When Ali and Foreman fought it was a dictatorship under Mobutu, who wanted a spectacular sporting event held in his country. For me, the musicians, and the black culture elements are nothing more than an interesting backdrop of a superbly talented athlete trying to overcome almost insurmountable odds. Again and again we are reminded of the lack of belief in the Ali camp as Foreman destroyed one heavy bag after another. The key moment of the film for me can almost (but not totally) be encapsulated in Norman Mailer's anecdote at the end of the first round, where he claims he could see Ali looking within himself, and slowly concluding that this was THE moment in his life. Ali was standing in a ring with a man he knew he could not bully, who was stronger than him, could hit harder than he could, and was as determined to force his will on Ali as Ali was determined to do likewise. There is no purer moment of epiphany captured in any documentary I have yet seen. Here was a man out-gunned in almost every department, who with a combination of pure skill, guile, determination, athletic prowess and self belief, managed to overcome a ferocious and worthy opponent. Foreman cannot go without mention. Every David needs his Goliath. He was awesome in ability and dignified in manner. He had destroyed both Joe Frazier and Ken Norton in spectacular fashion in the eighteen months before this fight and was at the top of his game. People would do well to remember Foreman was still knocking people out until 1997, when he KO'd Lou Savarese in the 12th round. They surely don't make 'em like they used to. Nobody except Ali believed he could overcome such an opponent. And what the documentary reveals to us is that in his darker moments, even he had doubts. He did not, however, let them stand in his way. This documentary is absolutely inspirational in almost every department. The fact that Ali was also a man of the people and recognised the dignity of African's in spite of their grinding poverty adds yet another dimension to this wonderful film, and to the man himself. As George Plimpton so concisely said My God, the man's a politician too! A truly great film , about a spectacular moment frozen in time, and a truly great leading man in Ali. I cannot close without commenting on the effect this loss had on Foreman. It hurt him deeply, and there is no one more pleased than I that he came back and shook the world a second time many years later. "},{"Title":"Muhammad Ali is Great Entertainer... Ali...Bumbaye, ... Ali...Bumbaye","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" Now, the file can be viewed as a History, a bit of Politics, good sweet, natural African music and of course one Great Boxing match between Muhammad Ali and Foreman, (while millions & millions of Ali fans chanting his name ... Ali...Bumbaye, ... Ali...Bumbaye (meanign Ali, Kill him)). Did I forgot to mention, entertaining performance by the Great Muhammad Ali!! Well, it is Entertaining, as far as I know Muhammad Ali(of course I have limited knowledge in boxing or in any other field.) was a calm guy, who only knows Boxing & till now thought that Mike Tyson was the only great. But when I saw this movie, I came to know Muhammad Ali not only as a Great Boxer, but also, as a man who can talk on various subjects, a political and a African leader and as a Man with a cause & of course as a great Entertainer.Why I brought Mike Tyson name in an Ali's Documentary review! Well, to compare one great we need another, Mike Tyson was a great Boxer, a street kid, who fought many fights & won many matches because in coach Cus D'Amado told him to do so... & of course he won them in Style, but after his mentor & coach's demise, he talk a clear direction & purpose. When it comes to Ali, he fought & won for his community with a Noble cause, I guess at that time African countries were ruled by European Colonies, and Black people were treated there as slave and so does in US where they were discriminated, Ali Fought for Black Pride, he wanted to show his people that there are second to none in this world, he wanted them to fight for their cause and the freedom of their countries from Europeans.I read many reviews of Hoop dreams, and has to watch it, I guess this documentary will be comparable to that & it should be Ali Dreams, Ali dreamt & told the world that he is the Greatest, many did not believe at that time when a young Guy told so, but Ali proved what he meant & showed the world his Dream, I guess they all came true.So, as a Pack this movie(Documentary) got it all a bit of history, music, politics, sport & of course loads of Entertainment. "},{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" Inspiring, amazing true story of Ali's comeback/retirement fight against George Foreman. Leon Gast, with help from Taylor Hackford, has taken the times, the black cause, and two giants of boxing and fashioned a fascinating narrative and an insightful culture study of a nation and its people. It's true the material is to die for, but Gast knew just what to do with it.I am no boxing fan, and consider the sport uncultured and physically dangerous, yet I was glued to this doco from start to finish. Especially insightful were the comments from the then fight writers, including Norman Mailer.Saturday, June 26, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"If You Think The World Was Surprised When Nixon Resigned, Wait Till I Kick Foreman's Behind","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" A documentary of the events surrounding The Rumble In The Jungle - the 1974 World Heavyweight Boxing Championship fight in Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo) between Muhammad Ali and defending champion George Foreman.This tremendous movie is both an excellent chronicle of a boxing match which was extraordinary in pretty much every way, and a wonderful depiction of it/Ali's social and cultural impact. If you ever doubted Ali's incredible fighting skill, ferocious intelligence and his importance as a prominent African American at a crucial period of history, you must see this film. The tactics he uses to outsmart and defeat a much stronger opponent are brilliant and carefully explained. His constant quips and raps, with his belligerent / comic delivery are hilarious, I have rassled with an alligator / I done tussled with a whale / I done handcuffed lightning / Throwed thunder in jail.. Most impressive of all though is his keen mind, always working overtime, analysing people and situations and coming out with perceptive, individualistic, thought-provoking comments. Here is a man who received little education and struggled to read, but had amazing wit and insight. His political stances, his struggle for recognition and his philanthropy for the disadvantaged are inspirational. The circumstances of the fight are equally amazing; boxing impresario Don King risked a fledgling career by persuading the notorious African dictator Mobutu Sese Seko to front the prize money, and then promoted it as an international spectacle of black Americans reclaiming their cultural history. Sheer genius. For extra fun we also get plenty of footage of a simultaneous concert featuring several sensational acts, notably B.B. King's rendition of Sweet Sixteen. Almost all of the 1974 footage was shot by Gast and tied up in ownership rights for twenty years, but looks sensational and is cleverly intercut with insightful comments, particularly by Mailer. A superb documentary. "},{"Title":"Great Look at Historic Fight","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" When We Were Kings (1996) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Extremely entertaining, Oscar-winning documentary covering the 1974 boxing match between Muhammad Ali and George Foreman, which became known as the Rumble in the Jungle. Through interview footage as well as archival footage, director Leon Gast's film perfectly documents the historic match and everything leading up to it. The boxing match itself is legendary and something most people know about and it's perfectly shown here but I think the real key to the documentary is everything we're shown leading up to the fight. This, of course, includes a lot of stuff dealing with Ali trash talking and getting involved with the African people. There are several scenes where Ali is simply out in the streets working out and trying to pump up the African people and of course get them in his corner. By contrast, we then see interview segments with Foreman where he's obviously not as deeply in with the people and doesn't have the same connection that Ali does. One really gets a great idea of the political climate heading up to the fight and the stuff with Ali training and just being himself are truly priceless. It's also fun hearing about how his career was thought to have been on the low-end as everyone was thinking that Foreman would destroy and possibly kill him in the ring. When we finally get to the fight footage it's presented in such a way that you really see what Ali was going for and how he pulled the upset. We see some terrific footage that is broken down and we're shown every little point that helped get Ali the win. WHEN WE WERE KINGS shows a historic fight and the surroundings around it and you can't help but be thankful that such an important event was captured in such a great form. "},{"Title":"The most elusive man outside the ring","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" Muhammad Ali is arguably the greatest sports figure of all time. He is remembered for his athletic achievement, political stances, and larger than life personality. Yet we never knew him. Michael Mann made a decent movie called Ali a few years ago. He tried his best to draw a portrait of an elusive human being. But what he was trying to achieve had already been done before with When We Were Kings.When We Were Kings is a phenomenal documentary. In my opinion, the prototype for all documentaries. Taking place in and around perhaps the best boxing match of all time, the Rumble In The Jungle, in which Ali faced George Foreman(of grill fame...). Ali is shown as a man brimming with confidence, yet his constant boasting becomes a coat of armor that protects him from his own self-doubt. Yet he endears himself to the African people who embrace him like he's one of their own. In these moments Ali appears both invincible and mortal.There are some cool musical numbers by James Brown and B.B King as well as appearances by Spike Lee, Don King, and the controversial president of Zahire at the time, Mobutu Sese Seko. These appearances add depth to the amazing events of the film.If you love documentaries, sports, or character stories, When We Were Kings is among the class of each. "},{"Title":"I'm young, I'm handsome, I'm fast, I'm pretty and can't possibly be beat.","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" Leon Gast created the best documentary of 1997. Of course, he had the greatest fighter of all time as his subject, so it wasn't too difficult.I could not watch this film without significant reminiscing. I was in the seminary in 1964 when Cassius Clay defeated Sonny Liston. I vividly remember all of us gathered around to listen to the fight. Of course, those in the know predicted a Liston victory. No one knew what to make of the brash young fighter that said what he felt and refused to bow to the establishment.I was in Vietnam when he was in jail. I did not feel one bit of animosity towards him. I was doing what I felt was expected of me, and he was doing what he believed was right. If he had been anyone else, he would not have lost five of the best years of his life. I can only admire him for having the courage to stand tall in the face of hatred.After Vietnam in the years leading up to the Rumble in the Jungle, I was very much into boxing. I was living in Tampa at the time and would catch the fights at the National Guard Armory, both amateur and closed-circuit. I would also be there to see acts like James Brown.By the time he was ready to retake his crown, I was out of the country again; this time in a remote section of Iceland. I was overjoyed to see him on top again. It was something of a vindication of his decision. He was always a classy individual and was concerned about those who were not leading lives that were in their best interests. He gave back more than he ever got from his country.After he retired, I lost interest in boxing. Those who followed him as Heavyweight Champions did not have the class he had and it was hard to get excited about them. Mohammed Ali stands alone in the sports world. Sure there were greats like Babe Ruth and Willie Mays, and I remember great pitchers like Warren Spahn, Don Drysdale, and Whitey Ford, but the were replaced by even better players. I played basketball for a while, so I watched Bob Cousy, The Bird, and Abdul Kareem Jabbar, but they were replaced by Michael Jordon and others who were better. We forget Nicklaus and Palmer as we now have Tiger Woods. It is the same in any sport except boxing. I was there from the beginning to end of the career of the greatest boxer of all time, and there is no need to look at anyone ever again.He was The Greatest, and i am grateful to Leon Gast for bringing this story to the screen and giving me another opportunity to see him, as well as relive the music of the late James Brown. "}{"Title":"An Excellent Piece of American History","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" A documentary of the 1974 heavyweight championship bout in Zaire between champion George Foreman and underdog challenger Muhammad Ali.I know a little bit about boxing, but only a little. I have followed MMA / UFC much closer (and even that is not something I am deep into). I knew very little about the Rumble in the Jungle, and perhaps most interestingly I knew very little about the skill involved.This film covers the people, the culture, the race dynamics... but it also made me respect boxing as a sport and not just as two men punching each other. The ballet-like footwork necessary to move your opponent around the ring... very interesting. A fighter's location may be just as important as his jabs. "},{"Title":"Muhammed Ali overpowering","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" It's 1974 Zaire. President Mobutu Sese Seko and Don King organize the Heavyweight championship fight between the 32 year old challenger Muhammed Ali and the much younger murderous champion George Foreman. Ali is assumed to be pass his prime and the definitive underdog. It is the Rumble in the Jungle. It's also suppose to have a music festival featuring James Brown and B.B. King.Muhammed Ali's charisma is undeniable. This movie soaks in all of his charms and power. I wouldn't say the documentary gets behind his overwhelming persona but the audience gets a small glimpse. This is simply Ali in the greatest of his greatness. I also love the music. "},{"Title":"A great documentary about an epic battle","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" If such an event as the Foreman/Ali fight occurred today, this film would probably not be such a big deal. That is because we would have pretty much round the clock cable coverage of the event courtesy ESPN. However, given that this fight occurred in 1974, this is the closest thing you are going to get to the kind of coverage you would see if that event was held today. In spite of the reversal of fortune that this fight gave to both Foreman and Ali's careers, this film really does not focus on either one of these individual fighters that much. Instead, it gives you a real feel for the excitement surrounding the fight overall, with significant commentary by George Plimpton and Norman Mailer, who were both there to cover the event.Of course there are segments on Foreman and Ali, and at the end, after the segment on the fight itself, there is basically a tribute to Ali both through his words and then through a series of still shots showing highlights of his life and career. However, I also learned quite a bit about Don King, the guy who made the fight happen, and how this event helped him break out of the pack when it came to managing fights and fighters. However, there is no romanticizing of the man. They mention both his strong points - his incredible intellect and that he always seemed to have a quotation from Shakespeare for ever occasion - and his weaknesses, mainly that he was amoral in his handling of the individual fighters' careers. These are the film's words, not mine. Interviews and footage of the fighters and their staff preparing both physically and mentally for the big rumble in the jungle are skillfully interspersed with footage of the sportswriters of the 70's marking up copy and working old-fashioned teletypes back in the age before computers were common, along with film of the inhabitants of Zaire going about their daily life often balancing huge baskets on their heads, and also shots of the live entertainment going on including some great footage of B.B. King and James Brown. Also included is a little bit of explanation as to why the people of Zaire found Ali so endearing versus George Foreman. They said they found Ali to come across as a real person. Apparently the fact that Foreman was so monosyllabic most of the time did not help his image overseas.The footage of the fight itself is very good considering it was shot in 1974. Mailer and Plimpton do a great job of explaining everything that is going on at each phase of the fight, including trying to get inside Ali's head as to what he might have been thinking as he employed first one strategy and then another against his mountain of an opponent.The film does mention that losing to Ali threw Foreman into a two year depression, and when he emerged he reinvented himself to the point that, as Norman Mailer says in the film, you would be hard pressed to find someone more affable than George Foreman is today. The postscript on Ali is interesting too. Mailer mentions that after this fight, Ali went on to fight 22 times, and all of these additional fights ruined his health. Mailer mentions that it is often said that you wind up destroying the thing you love, but in Ali's case it was the thing he loved that ultimately destroyed him, or at least his physical health.This is a very good and complete portrait of a unique sports event and the very interesting people involved. You don't have to be a boxing fan to enjoy it. If you enjoy a good tale about the triumph of an underdog, the intersection of two very different cultures, and anecdotes about some of the more interesting sports figures of the 20th century, you'll like this film. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Perfect title for the film","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" Fascinating episode of cultural history - authoritarian Mobutu Sese Seko hosts the fight in order to put a sheen on his public image. The contrast between the talismanic, inspirational, irrepressible Ali who most Zaireans backed, and on the other hand, the quieter, almost mythic Foreman also makes a fascinating aspect of this movie. Foreman was heavily favored against Ali after he had destroyed Frazier and Norton and knowledgeable boxing observers expected the worst for Ali. Ali's bluster, perhaps to entertain, perhaps to provoke Foreman, perhaps to make things interesting, also made the film amazing. Ali's ease with the media made him the more sympathetic boxer to Zaireans, but so too did his humor and commitment to justice. Another fascinating feature of the film was the role of Don King in promoting the fight. While King was a great promoter, commentators like Norman Mailer and George Plimpton rightly look askance at King's jarring amorality. It's probably not surprising that King was able to come to terms with Mobutu on the hosting of the fight. For all his well-known negatives though, King put on a landmark event by also booking some of the biggest musical acts of the day, from The Spinners, James Brown, from B.B. King to Miriam Makeda. We are the beneficiaries as we get to hear some fantastic live performances.The direction and editing are great too. Commentary from Norman Mailer and George Plimpton give us context to understand the events better and the use of lots of archival footage make it that much better. The way it is framed are credits to the editor and director.All that said though, Ali is the star of this film for his boxing but also for his heart. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Captures the Epic Tale of Ali vs Foreman","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" 'When We Were Kings', is one of those rare cinematic treats, that occurs when a good filmmaker latches on to an epic tale in the making. Just about everyone at the time, expected Foreman to demolish Ali, as he had done to both, Joe Frazier and Ken Norton. To many, Ali was washed up, and just asking for the whipping of his life! George Foreman up until then, had proved to be such a consummate destroyer of quality heavyweights, the dread of Ali's impending defeat, was noticeable in the commentary of both George Plimpton, and Norman Mailer. This enhanced the drama and foreboding, of this classic struggle, romantically set in the Central African nation of Zaire. Epic tales of course require epic figures, and through it all, Ali commands center stage. We see him at the height of his powers, charming, witty, and above all, revealing the immense champion's heart, that made him The Greatest! 'When We Were Kings' beautifully captures the epic boxing story, known as the 'Rumble in the Jungle'! "},{"Title":"Myth well told","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" The story of Muhammed Ali and the famous Rumble in the Jungle is the stuff of legend; the world's best boxer becomes a hate figure for middle America and is banned for political reasons; he returns but has lost his edge; he gets a last shot at the world title in a fight to be held in Zaire, whose kleptomaniac dictator is willing to put up his people's cash to pay for it; and against all the odds, he astonishingly beats the superior puncher George Foreman through a combination of wit and bravery. Ali was beautiful and clever as well as violent; his art destroyed him, but it's easy to tell his story as a kind of noble myth. Which is exactly what 'When We Were Kings', a documentary that relies relatively little on talking heads (because the whole drama was a kind of performance, and filmed) does. The film even gets its soundtrack for free thanks to the musicians brought in to publicise the fight. I don't even like boxing, but it's still a compelling story; but also watch 'Thrilla in Manilla', a film about Ali's next fight, for a story that takes something of the gloss of his personal sheen. "},{"Title":"Good doc, not enough of the fight","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" This is a pretty documentary of the legendary fight between Muhammad Ali and George Foreman in 1974. Apparently a lot of this footage has been lost for over 20 years and there is some good stuff, good performances by James Brown and of course a lot of Ali talking his jive and poetry, and some of it is pretty good yesterday I hospitalized a brick, i'm so mean I make medicine sick. Ali is mesmerizing, I was born in 1970 so I missed the whole Ali phenom, he was just a vague idea of somebody important, like Evel Knievel and Farah Fawcett. Lately I've become very interested in this guy, I guess because the legend has passed and Ali is more of a distant memory, the hype has died down and you can study the real man. I think a lot of the sports writers at the time had a romanticized view of boxing, it is not a pleasant sport, it's too men beating the hell out of each other. Now there is some skill involved and Ali proved that you can win brains and will power as well as brawn, but they seemed almost amazed that a black man would stand up and say he was the greatest, and when he said that you knew he meant of EVERYBODY, black or white. I think that's what annoyed them the most, he wasn't the quiet humble lap dog they wanted from a black athlete who just did his job, thanked everyone and shut the hell up.Sorry, my reviews tend to wander. Ali truly showed has smart he was and Foreman was oblivious to how he was being played. Ali realized during his build up to the Norton fight that having a psychological edge was as important as a physical one. Telling everyone you're the greatest has two effects, if builds yourself up and it frustrates your opponent. It's one thing to see a man boast that he's a scientist, it's another thing to see him actually deliver on the promise, and it is a wondrous thing to behold. Also, the fact that monsoon rains held off until 20 minutes after the fight finished, what a story! My major complaint with this film is that there a lot of Norman Mailer telling slightly exaggerated tales of the fight and Plimpton pompous pontificating (two men who probably never got into a fight their whole lives) but very little of the actual fight. Did they lose some footage? I would have liked to have seen some more rounds of Ali getting pounded on. I'm amazed he could take that punishment, considering what Foreman did to the punching bag. But in the end he fell right into Ali's trap and the fight ended in one of the biggest upsets in boxing history. "},{"Title":"Absolutely riveting study of two champions and I don't even LIKE boxing!!","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  I watched this because a good friend insisted I do so, though I see nothing terribly fascinating or interesting in boxing.   What I saw was a case study in two very different men who made a living beating each other up, as well as anyone else unwise to step into the ring with either of them.  I still don't think much of boxing, but I respect Ali and Foreman more now and think that at least some boxers are athletes and not bashers.  Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Funny, Realistic & Enjoyable","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" This is one of the best documentaries about the legendary Muhammad Ali. This is movie is even way better than Michael Mann's Ali. It is a joy to watch Muhammad Ali dancing in the ring & throwing jocks all over .. he is a funny person, isn't he?. Yet, he has powerful fists & he always been kind .. we all know how he refused to join the army during Vietnam War .. how many celebrity nowadays dare to say NO to uncle Sam? .. the movies is amazing & so real but I didn't like some parts of the ending. But anyway, it is surely funny & enjoyable to watch about the best athletic in the century. I've seen it twice and it was one of the best documentaries I've ever seen .. and probably one of the most enjoyable one.The short debate between Muhammad Ali & Howard Cosell is absolutely one the funniest debates ever. Warning .. don't read the two lines under if you want to enjoy the debate.And you're always talking about, (Muhammad, you're not the same man you were 10 years ago.) Well, I asked your wife, and she told me you're not the same man you was two years ago! Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Watch It!","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" Some people see boxing as nothing more than two people standing in a big square that for some reason is called a ring, hitting each other very hard until one of them falls over bleeding onto the floor. Others see it as a tough, graceful sport that can be elevated to an art form. If any one person has ever exemplified the idea of boxing as an art, surely it is Muhammad Ali.Mostly shot in 1974, When We Were Kings follows the circus that was the famous 'Rumble In The Jungle', the fight between Ali and George Foreman that took place in Zaire &#150; now the Democratic Republic of the Congo - in 1974. However to say that this movie is about that match is to do it an injustice. Really this is a movie about Ali himself, and what the man has come to represent.The title actually refers to the time when black people were kings of Africa, yet it is interesting to note that the only reason the fight took place in Zaire was the massive amount of money offered. Indeed Zaire, under the rule of Presedent Mobutu, was hardly a place where the common person thrived. Much is made of President Mobutu. He is described as a 'closet sadist', and there is discussion of detention rooms and prisons for thousands for people under the stadium the fight was take place in! The most frightening accusation aimed at the president is the idea that he rounded up all of the dangerous, high ranking criminals in the country, randomly killed 100 of them and released the others, just to ensure that, while the eyes of the world were on Zaire, there would be no criminal trouble. Whether or not that is true, there certainly was little trouble at all.In 1967 Ali lost the world title because he had refused to go to Viet Nam, famously saying 'no Vietnamese ever called me Ni**er', but began a comeback in 1970. In 1971 he had a shot at the title but lost to Joe Frazier. This is very important to remember as in 1974 Ali was fighting Foreman, a person who obliterated Frazier in a couple of rounds. Nobody really thought Ali was going to win this fight, a fact made clear by the documentary. Nobody, from his training staff to the commentators, believed that the former champion could stop 'Big George', no one except the people of Zaire. Everywhere Ali went there were cheers of 'Ali, Bomaye!', which means 'Ali, kill him!' I found it quite interesting when in one interview Foreman says that he wouldn't want people shouting that - a chant encouraged by Ali - but rather that the people would shout 'George Foreman loves Africa!' However in the eyes of the people of Zaire, Foreman represented America, while Ali was their champion.As well as interviews with the fighters and those associated with them there is also a lot of coverage of the massive amount of hype that went along with the match. Don King ensured that this fight was massive, and the hype that surrounded the fight, with artists such as James Brown and B.B. King performing bought anticipation to a fever pitch. Called the 'Black Woodstock' music festival, I found the emphasis the film placed on these artists and what they did just as compelling as the information about Ali.Of course there is also the fight. I must say that this was the one point of the documentary that worried me. It depicted Ali as taking a huge amount of damage during the match, on his last legs before taking the fight to Foreman. I feel that this was simply for dramatic effect. Even during the fight it was noted that Foreman was tiring himself out and Ali's tactics seemed obvious to everyone except his opponent in the ring. But this small criticism cannot overshadow what an amazing feat it was for Ali to floor Foreman in the eighth round. The final punch Ali lands is amazing, as is his performance throughout the fight.This film may not appeal to people who find boxing offensive, yet in truth the fight itself is not the main interest. Here we see people talking abut a man who during a time of massive social upheaval was a leader for his people. As Spike Lee says towards the end of the movie 'These kids, they are missing a whole lot if they don't know the legacy of Muhhamad Ali because no matter what era you live in you see very few true heroes'. "}{"Title":"Not the Greatest....but","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  Unlike the champ, this movie is not the greatest.  However, the film moves quickly, keeps your interest, and is a fascinating look behind the scenes of not just a boxing match, but a look behind the scenes of the early 1970s. As a documentary, this film misses the boat.  The brutal reign of Zaire's dictator is only briefly mentioned, the six week delay in the fight is glossed over, and the great showdown between Ali's mistress and his wife is not even mentioned. When We Were Kings is worth watching for its entertainment value, however A&E's Biography did a better job of covering this event.   "},{"Title":"A better detail of the Ali-Foreman fight in Zaire than Will Smith's version","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" Well, although I am not too much of an Ali fan, I heard some of the important moments of his life. You probably know him as that draft dodger who almost got 5 years in federal jail for refusing to be inducted into the U.S. armed forces. And of course, there was the Ali-Foreman matchup taking place in an African country where you can get by with some French, and you heard about King Motu from Zaire and Don King from the USA masterminding this famous fight.What makes this movie better than Will Smith's version of Ali was the music. If you have seen that version of Ali, there are the same patterns---you hear the Bumaye Ali chant (which was a motivator for Ali to knock out George Foreman) like Will Smith's version, and the big pre-game fanfare with all of that Black music, leading to the entrance of Ali and Foreman into the big stadium with a lot of soldiers. But the music in When We Where Kings added a great fuel to the fire of what was this famous boxing match to come.I found out that Motu could not see the famous fight in person at the stadium, because Motu was targeted for an attempt on his life by someone.The early 1970s was when the soul music and progressive rock explosion went sky-high. This was in response to the turbulent Civil Rights movement of the mid-1960s in the United States, leading up to the turbulent events in 1968 such as the Martin Luther King assassination. Especially when you hear James Brown and his famous Soul Generals band strut their stuff with famous soul hits like We're Gonna Have a Funkin' Good Time...especially when they were on the Zaire venue before the George Foreman-Muhummad Ali matchup. "},{"Title":"Muhammad Ali will ALWAYS be the greatest!","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" Probably what makes When We Were Kings especially effective is the opening Muhammad Ali, explaining his plan to participate in a boxing match in Zaire, declares Africa is the home of the black man. I had actually never heard of the Rumble in the Jungle before this documentary came out, but one need only watch it to see just how great Ali was (and always will be). As for the possibility that it meanders too much with the interviews, I say that it's good to get different people's insights into what an important part of our national heritage Ali is.So anyway, this is a documentary that I wholeheartedly recommend. Also featuring George Foreman (happy birthday, George!), James Brown (RIP), Spike Lee, B.B. King and Mobutu Sese Seko in footage. "},{"Title":"Muhammad Ali Gentleman and Legend","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  This film is a must see for anyone who worships Muhammad Ali (like I do). Of all of his title fights, this one is my favorite. There is nothing like seeing Muhammad Ali knocking out big George Foreman. The great story behind this film is Muhammad Ali wasn't given a chance and it was expected that George Foreman was going to kill Ali. However, thanks to Ali inventing the Rope-A-Dope Ali showed the world yet again who The Greatest truly is. Today, Muhammad Ali is showing the world what a courageous and inspirational man he is. He is simply, one of the true legends of all-time.Mr. D. Jensen "},{"Title":"What a movie!","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  I saw this when it was screened as part of the Dublin Film Festival a few years back. I certainly was enraptured, but it was a collective experience for everyone that attended the showing. What can you say about it - compelling, great drama from Ali & Forman, and excellent contributions from everyone involved. And the soundtrack? Tremendous! "},{"Title":"More Like When I Was King","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  Good documentary on the Ali/Foreman fight and all that went on in the preceding months. I especially liked the Norman Mailer and George Plimpton retellings.But I think there was a total of 4 minutes of George Foreman pre-fight footage compared to 70 minutes on Ali. Hey, we pretty much know all about Ali, don't we?7/10 "},{"Title":"George Foreman Has The Last Laugh!","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" This documentary on the Muhammad Ali vs. George Foreman heavyweight championship surprised me in how little footage of the fight was shown.It's mainly about the buildup of the fight, of black people finding their roots, and of Ali and Foreman and their entourages. It was fun to see Ali back in his youth again although I felt sorry for Foreman because the film is obviously prejudiced in favor of Ali. In fact, just read the reviews here on IMDb. All you read is about Ali being almost deified. It's ridiculous. Excuse me, but there WAS another boxer in here. And, yeah, Foreman has done white well since this bout and Ali, well, he's barely functional.In this documentary, they also interviewed Liberal celebrities - George Plimpton, Norman Mailer and Spike Lee - with Mailer the most interesting. Plimpton thought witchdoctors were profound! Wow, how's that for an Ivy- League-educated man? He was impressed by a chant done by a 'Succcubus. So much for higher education.Despite the liberal leanings throughout this film, I found interesting all the way through, even if I just marbled at the stupidity of some of these people. Since this ran 94 minutes, however, a few more tacking on actual fight footage would have been nice to see. "},{"Title":"Timelessly Majestic","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"    WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILER BELOW It is quite moving to look at this documentary and compare Ali then to how he is now.Back in 1974 he was probably the most famous person on the planet,full of life,confidence and a quite unique personality.Much of the teasing of opponents was funny and was generally part of the whole circus that came with Ali.Foreman was no slouch back then and Ali certainly did not get an easy fight.The circumstances of his victory were really amazing. He dances around the ring and Foreman just can't hit him. When Foreman is completely tired chasing after him ,this is where Ali finishes him off. The fight in Zaire and the whole hype regarding it are superbly documented here and this is a truly fascinating look at the most remarkable sportsman of the twentieth century.It is all the more poignant looking at Ali now stricken by Parkinson's Disease and back in '74 when he was simply majestic.    "},{"Title":"This is on of the the greatest","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the greatest documentary movies ever made. It`s fast, it`s handsome, it can`t possably be beaten. Muhammad Ali is truly the king of his time and a great fighter as well as a great artist both with his hands and with his mouth. Funny, interesting and indulging, this movie ranks as one of the best documentaries ever made.    "},{"Title":"Rolling Out the Red Carpet and Crowning a Champion.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  Wonderful Oscar-winner for Best Documentary Feature in 1996, When We Were Kings is an excellent film about the famous Rumble in the Jungle (the boxing match between Muhammad Ali and George Foreman in Zaire in 1974). Old archive footage leading up to the match, recent interviews and stunning information are the big calling cards. Ali, who had a decade of turmoil from 1964-1974, finally was able to re-claim a title that had been taken away from him due to bureaucracy and the U.S.'s uncertainty of his national and international motives. Director Leon Gast crafted an important movie here that would of course lead to even more as Ali would become a theatrical non-documentary feature directed by Michael Mann and starring Will Smith some five years later in 2001. 5 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"This Film Captures The Workings Of A Genius!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  In no other way is the genius of Muhammed Ali so accurately captured.  Not even being a boxing fan, you can see how a man held his opponents, his sport, the media, and the world in the palm of his hand.  This is truly an inspirational film, no matter what your interest! "},{"Title":"Excellent documentary","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  The Oscar winning documentary following the 1974 'rumble in the jungle' fight between Mohammed Ali and George Foreman in Zaire. The documentary footage follows the build-up to the fight, the concert that surrounded it and the fight itself. This is a wonderful capturing of the time by Leon Gast that will be of interest to both boxing fans and those who think it's all over hyped and a barbaric sport.The producer, David Sonenberg had the idea of hanging the footage on a series of interviews with Norman Mailer, George Plimpton and Spike Lee. Lee's contribution are mainly the effect of Ali on the black community at the time - being a positive role model and also showing a different image of Africa than Hollywood does. His opinions are interesting but you can't help feel like he's seeing the impact with hindsight.However both Mailer and Plimpton were at the fight and have many different perspectives and stories to put the bones on the story. This really gives you a good impression of what it was like and how everything happened. This includes the history of the fighters, background of the dictatorship of Zaire and a walk through of the fight itself. The film doesn't totally have a focus as it tries to look at every element of the proceedings - Ali, Don King, the chaos around the fight etc.However this isn't a complaint. The film is only 90 minutes long but it absolutely flies by, there isn't a dull moment in it. Many documents only appeal to groups with an interest in the subject matter, however this is so very good that I can imagine that anyone could watch this and enjoy it.A well put together documentary that mixes excellent, detailed footage with recent contributions to produce a film that deservedly won an Oscar. "},{"Title":"Ali, is the Greatest","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  Just when you think Ali can't inspire you anymore then he already has, then comes this gem of a documentary of the greatest sportsman of all time, and also one of the most influential figures of the 20 th century. Also this moving experience has an outstanding soundtrack, that captures the feeling of the 'Rumble in the Jungle'. "},{"Title":"Ali had to be the hero .  .  .","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  in this film because he took the trouble to actually act in it.The bonus material in the DVD edition reveals that Ali helped the director to set up shots and did second takes if the first didn't quite work out.In one sense this is less of a documentary and more of a docu-drama. "},{"Title":"One Terrific Boxing Movie/One Middling Concert Film","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  WHEN WE WERE KINGS, a long-dormant project about a music festival during the the '74 Rumble in the Jungle between Ali and the supposedly invincible George Foreman, is a dazzling overview of the turmoil that surrounds a epic boxing match, featuring surprisingly solid commentary from the decidedly un-pugilistic George Plimpton and Norman Mailer, who were both present at the bout.  Except for the poor video to film transposition of the bout, the film documents the intense feelings for Ali--and against Foreman--that had begun following Ali's return to the ring.Just avoid the concert footage, which offers little of note to music history, unless you enjoy watching musicians sweat profusely. "},{"Title":"entertaining insights into history","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  This was great viewing. James Brown, B. B. King, and The Greatest.  Good music, good laughs. The fight itself is not a gruesome bloody affair. I believe George Plimpton tells a story of repression that involves the murder of 100 criminals that is a REALLY gruesome bloody affair. There's a slice of the Cosell-Ali magic, and Norman Mailer tells some very good stories. In the end I was left pondering about Ali and his ministry in the Nation of Islam and Ali's place in world cultural history. "},{"Title":"Clay,Tramps,And Thieves","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  The so called Rumble In The Jungle ,now called When We Were Kings is a shifty documentary that highlights Muhammad Ali aka Cassius Clay's victory over a young George Foreman in Zaire Africa.Now I am like many who thought Clay would lose back in 74,but this film ironically shows the sleaziness of Don King and Clay. Instead of having the fight in Las Vegas or London Clay and King hold it in Zaire,a terrible country riddled by murder and repression.This is a place Ali takes to heart as he piously denounces black Americans who strive for a better life as acting white.Ali is looked upon as a god here and a native, being interviewed,says his people respected Ali for standing up to America for not going to Vietnam.This man thought ,unbelieveably,that George Foreman,not having seen him before was white. The nation of Zaire clearly wants Ali to win as it shouts ALI KILL HIM in their native language.Foreman has some in Zaire shout the same for him,except he shies away from the idea of a black man maiming another man while Ali does not.The gullible liberal press go goo goo ga ga over Ali and his poetry and his slick jive talk.In one scene in the film,Ali denotes the differences between musical appreciation of Blacks,Whites,and Asians in a way that makes what Reggie White said(which was true by the way)seem very very tame. George Plimpton goes overboard with the story Ali went to Zaire's Hitler Nobutu's witchdoctor to hex Foreman.The idea made it seem that it did work,Foreman did lose after all,but the intense African heat had more to do with that than any voodoo. For some people who don't know or will never try to research it,Cassius Clay was a golden child who fought injustice and was the people's champ.The thing is he won many of his battles over many of his own people with good black men(in the ring) and with black women(he has been married four times).He is one of the top cartoons for white people who enjoy his clownish antics ,while being able to remember he is just another loudmouth athlete. Of course we have the likes of Spike Lee telling us how today's generation doen't even know who Muhammad Ali is.The truth is they will never find out through this movie.It has some fuuny moments,some redeeming moments,not all of When We Were Kings is bad.But it is not good enough.Foreman is almost forgotten and the movie becomes onsided,for Ali and Don King,another deplorable character to forget.One day we will learn about the real Ali/CLAY in a book that tries to explain him as he really was.Ali Without Tears,harsh to explain but necessary.  "},{"Title":"Utter Garbage","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" Heed my warning, all ye who wish to watch this insipid piece of garbage!This is not a documentary about boxing or the Rumble in the Jungle. It was never meant to be. It is another attempt to sanctify a man who should have been SHOT for treason. It's a shame that Muhammad Ali has become a living saint. Is this not the man who told Robert Frost that people who practise interracial dating should be killed? How we forgive! Ali is neither funny, entertaining nor intelligent. He is an arrogant, brash idiot savante who just happened to have a lot of natural ability and was one of the best heavyweights of recent years. If you are interested in Ali, the athlete, the boxer, pick up Champions Forever. If you are interested in Ali, the man, try and get a hold of the candid interviews he did with Sir Robert. They are a lot more indicative of his personality/political stance than this utter garbage, insipid waste of celluloid. "},{"Title":"One of the best documentaries I've ever seen","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  This is easily the most dramatic documentary I've ever seen. Ali is a fascinating hero, and George Foreman a formidable, brooding villain (who would have thought he would transform into a lighthearted pitchman?). One of the greatest sports movies of all time. And I'm not a big sports fan. "},{"Title":"If you haven't seen it, watch it!  If you've seen it, watch it again!!!!!!!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  Once again Ali touches the hearts of many! He's witty, handsome and strong!  Some believe he was sent by God, others believe he was an ordinary boy with an ability to box and the gift of the gab.  I believe he was special.  whether you are a fan or not, this film should support my view!  LONG LIVE THE KING!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Ali was the king!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  This film brought me to think very much about the life of Ali not only the boxing category of his life, this film is great, because this man is great, a film of , a fighter , a philosoph a man to think about the brought me to think about my whole life and influenced me in a very positive way. "},{"Title":"my new favorite movie","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  when we were kings is a documentary with more suspense and riveting action than many fictional works. I am by no means a sports fan. In fact , I hate sports and really have no use for boxing. But after watching this film I have to put Mohammed Ali on my list of favorite people (which , if you must know includes Clinton, Morrissey, Janeane Garafalo and Thomas Edison). Ali is a genius. Not just in the Boxing ring, where he is easily the greatest athlete of all time (but what do I know), but all throughout the film, just to watch him speak and how he handles situations and how he reacts to people. I am amazed at how his mind works. You get the impression that put into any difficult situation he could handle it no problem, and be quick about it. He will make you ashamed of yourself for wasting your life. he will make you cry with joy that someone like him could truly exist. In a world full of lazy hippies, someone like him does not seem possible. I'll have to buy a copy of the movie just so I can prove to myself whenever necessary of what a man is capable of being. Mohammed Ali - the only role model you will ever need! "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  I liked it but it was no Rocky. It would've been better if they had an old crusty manager, played by Burgess Meredith, shout things like He'll know ya to tomorra, Rock! or He'll murdalize ya, Rock! throughout the film. I would've liked it better then. "},{"Title":"Remembering Ali at his best","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  Time has not been kind to Muhammad Ali. Parkinson's disease has reduced him to a shadow of his former greatness, which makes this film all the more special. It shows us Ali at his smart-mouthed, fleet-footed best. When We Were Kings documents the events leading up to the now classic Ali-Foreman fight in 1974, dubbed the Rumble in the Jungle. Muhammad Ali was more than just a superb boxer. He was the most charismatic athlete we've ever seen, and When We Were Kings reminds us why. "},{"Title":"Mister, We Could Use a Man like Mobutu Again","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":" Great film. I'm not sure what it was about. It felt like one of those wildlife documentaries, except with a boxing match and a concert spliced in between. They don't show enough Mobutu Seso Seko though. Whatever happened to that nice man.  "},{"Title":"Ali is awesome, the rest isn't","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Sport","Review":"  Muhammad Ali's boxing legacy was created before I was born, and so until I watched this movie, my thoughts on him were based on in-ring highlights and interview clips.  Judging from those, he was an intensely annoying man, with a confidence that was more like arrogance.  However, this movie changed my opinion of him.  Ali displays an extreme amount of charisma here, and he was so thoroughly charming that it became impossible for me to not like him. Unfortunately, the film has a great deal of footage that does not focus on Ali, and these parts of the film are mediocre at best.  I'd still call it a very good movie, since it forever changed the way that I look at Ali, but more accurately, it is often a so-so movie that is fortunately blessed with Ali's on-screen excellence. "}]