[{"Title":"Noir In The City","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  	In this contemporary film noir, two brothers with the same alma mater-- Folsom Prison-- discover something about loyalty and what `honor among thieves' really means, in `City of Industry,' directed by John Irvin.  Lee Egan (Timothy Hutton) puts together a crew of four men, including his brother, Roy (Harvey Keitel), to take down a jewelry store in Palm Springs, California.  If all goes well, they look to score a cool three mil in diamonds, and Lee has a fence in L.A. ready to move the merchandise.  Lee and Roy are solid, as is Jorge (Wade Dominguez), the third member of the crew who is already looking at 2 to 5 in Folsom, having been convicted of carrying a concealed weapon.  Jorge wants a quick score that will take care of his wife, Rachel (Famke Janssen), and their two kids while he's away.  The wild card of the bunch is Skip Kovich (Stephen Dorff), their wheel man; he has a wild streak that emboldens him too much for his own good, a flaky girlfriend and some ideas of his own about how the split from the job should go down.  Lee contends that it's going to be an easy score, with each man's share being `Not bad for a day's work.'  But you can bet that anytime you have a `sure thing' it's going to turn out to be anything but, and this caper is, of course, no exception.	As is befitting the subject matter, the film is dark-- much of it takes place at night, or in rather seedy, industrial locales-- with a touch of artistic cinematography that gives a sense of urgency to the story.  It quickly shifts from the posh atmosphere of Palm Springs to downtown Los Angeles and Chinatown, an environment through which you get a sense of who these guys are and what they are about.  As Rachel says to Roy at one point, `You guys are all alike--'	As Roy, Keitel carries the film with the kind of credible performance we've come to expect from him.  While this character is certainly not a stretch for him-- you've seen `Roy' many times before, played by Keitel and others-- he does put a unique stamp on him; he's familiar, but Keitel manages to avoid letting him slip into stereotype.  And that is no easy task when you take into consideration that in reality a man like Roy would necessarily share certain traits with others of his ilk.  What makes the difference is Keitel's consummate ability as an actor, and his concern with fleshing out the details of his character.	The role of Lee is something of a departure for Hutton, though similar to the part he played in `Playing God,' but with much more definition.  He gives Lee a very `real' quality, the cool confidence of one who lives just beyond the fringe of what society deems acceptable.  When he mentions that he's been in Folsom, it's believable.  Dorff, meanwhile, is effective as Skip, a guy perpetually pumped and strung out, crazy-- but like a fox-- with an aura of menace about him that is nearly tangible.  In attitude and style, Skip is reminiscent of Laurence Fishburne's two-fisted, gun toting Jump in `King of New York.'  And Janssen gives a notable performance also, successfully creating the one character in the film with whom the audience can sympathize.  You feel her desperation and the concern she has for her children's well being, which effectively adds valuable context to the story.	The supporting cast includes Michael Jai White (Odell), Lucy Liu (Cathi), Reno Wilson (Keshaun), Dana Barron (Gena), Tamara Clatterbuck (Sunny), Brian Brophy (Backus) and Francois Chau (Uncle Luke).  A violent and stylish examination of the criminal element in our midst, `City of Industry' is a hard-edged film that presents the matter-of-fact way in which those who subscribe to a life of crime seemingly function within their own sect of society.  It's a part of life many would just as soon deny in reality, but as Steve McQueen said many years ago in `Bullitt,' `That's where half of it is.'  And a film like this is not about to let you forget it.  I rate this one 8/10.    "},{"Title":"A Great Guy's Flick","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In my book, this is one of the overlooked action classics of the 1990's. With solid production values and a top notch cast, and set against a sunny and seedy Los Angeles backdrop, this fast-paced story of desperate criminals driven by greed and revenge is the perfect vehicle for Guy's Movie Night.Harvey Keitel is at his best as Roy Egan, the hardened career criminal bent on avenging a double-cross by former partner-in-crime, Skip Kovich (played by Stephen Dorff, in his best performance ever).  Also along for the ride are Timothy Hutton, the late Wade Dominguez (Dangerous Minds), and a very sexy Famke Janssen.  As if this weren't enough, this movie is notable for providing the only film nude scenes of Lucy Liu (a brief role as Dorff's stripper ex-girlfriend), and Dana Barron (Audry Griswold in the original Vacation).Despite its occasional plot holes, this film gets better with repeated viewings.  And for fans of what my Manly Man Movie Night associates have deemed Keiteling (the mandatory Harvey Keitel emotional and physical meltdown, e.g. the church scene in Bad Lieutenant) it doesn't get any better than this.  However, the film is quite violent, and I have not met many women who like it.  Still, City of Industry belongs in the collection of any fan of revenge-based action thrillers. "},{"Title":"Gritty, violent, tough guy Keitel tour-de-force","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Keitel runs, walks, staggers, stumbles, and crawls through City of Industry to settle a score with fellow thief Dorff in this surprisingly entertaining but gritty and violent action/drama from the same mold as Reservoir Dogs. Janssen plays a babe (what else?) caught up in the vendetta filmed in just about every seedy part of Los Angeles. Good stuff for crime buffs and Keitel fans into violent gangster-type flicks. "},{"Title":"... this is a sleeper ... time to wake up!","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the title City of Industry did nothing to sway me to watch this film. the cast brought me in to it's dark world, and i am forever greatful. harvey keitel first off - then i found a new femme fatale in famke janssen - then an incredible new villain in stephen dorff - and the list goes on, with an incredible film score and blend of unique artists, no superstars but viable musicians that make you want to hear more. note after viewing COI the first time, the next day i bought the soundtrack album. since my first viewing, i play the soundtrack in my car going to work. i have watched this film approximately 50 times. i have turned many friends on to it. i still get an rush everytime i watch it. it is truly one of the great sleepers, probably because of the title. today, i think the title is very hip. but had it not been for the cast, i might never have seen this incredible film. truly one of keitel's best! the opening credits and charismatic music should lock you in for the ride of your life. once the film starts, you cannot stop watching! i compare this film to American Beauty in that i compare AB to Panic with william h. macy - another sleeper which has gone on to receive phenomenal post-acclaim. **** almost every review. if you can make it through the violence (it is brutal like True Romance - but not overly gratuitous - the violence is there for a definite reason, i promise you that this film will leave an indelible mark on your mind and that you will never forget this film ever!  it is, without a doubt, a movie to be remembered. "},{"Title":"As usual Keitel is exceptional","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would describe Harvey Keitel's performance in this violent thriller as exceptional, except that he turns in such remarkable performances time after time. He plays Roy Egan, a veteran con helping his kid brother, Lee (Timothy Hutton), and two other desperados, pull a big jewel job in Palm Springs. The job goes well, but then one of the gang gets murderously greedy, and Roy goes into LA, after him and the loot.The other element which lifts the movie from competent to first rate are the downtown and industrial locations. For once we see an LA not made up exclusively of lush areas like Beverly Hills on the one hand, and no-go ghettos like South Central on the other. At the same time, writer Ken Solarz and director John Irvin make good use of LA's ethnic mix, with both Chinese and Black gangs playing a part as Roy hunts his man. Hutton, Stephen Dorff, Wade Dominguez and Famke Janssen contribute solid performances, and Lucy Liu is also to be seen. The movie may descend into too much mayhem for some; and the sunny epilogue seems out of place; but this is a must-see for thriller-lovers.    "},{"Title":"Worth a watch","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" City of Industry is a decent effort at a crime movie, and perhaps one the better of a bad bunch of these types of films that seemed to be on a production line since Pulp Fiction came out. We don't get much in terms of character here, well, we do but the two characters the film focuses on at the beginning... well, I'll just say they don't last long. The characters are setting up a jewel heist. They get Harvey Keitel's character, Roy Egan who is the brother of one of the two, and the wildcard character, Skip. The film then turns into a revenge film with Roy trying to track down Skip and get revenge and his money. Skip's introduction to the proceedings is an example of where the film fails, it tries to be too cool but it doesn't have the substance to back it up. Apart from this failing though, the film takes some risks that are worthy of note, such as deciding to focus the beginning part of the film on the two characters that get killed to advance the main plot. The film also has some nice LA locations, several murals are seen throughout the film for example, preceding Michael Mann's work on Collateral. "},{"Title":"A good old formula heist flic done right.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It has a perfect set-up for character establishment followed by a few surprises and then the chase is on between the young arrogant Skip,(Dorff), and the old but wiser Roy, (Keitel). You may forgive the film as it falls into tough guy with heart and romance for weeping woman scenario but that's part of the genre. The perfect hard hitting gritty drama for a late, late night viewing to keep one awake.  "},{"Title":"A great movie with a fantastic soundtrack","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies - great film noir and certain to have a cult following.  I saw it because I am always fascinated with the characters Harvey Keitel plays - he brings an emotional and physical intensity to his roles that is unequaled.  Here he is outstanding as Roy Egan- an experienced, complicated thief who never says much.  He is convinced by his brother Lee to rob a jewelry store ( when is Harvey going to learn not to rob jewelry stores?) They are joined by Lee's friends Jorge and Skip - these are four macho guys who we care about because they care about each other - except Skip who doesn't seem to care about anything.  When the heist goes bad, Roy spends the rest of the movie hunting down the guy who betrayed him. There is a scene when Roy is alone in a hotel room and begins to pound a table - even though he says nothing, we can feel his fury and frustration building - this is Keitel at his best.  All the acting in this movie is great - the four male leads are well- cast and work well together, and Jorge's wife Rachel is sympathetic as a young mother who wants to do what's best for her kids.  Elliot Gould has a small part as a loan shark and Lucy Liu shows up briefly as an exotic dancer.  The locations are interesting - this is the true dark side of L.A., and the ending - though violent- is satisfying and stays with you.  This movie also has one of the best soundtracks I've heard. City of Industry will grab you and pull you in at the opening credits and not let you go until the very end. "},{"Title":"flawed action flick definitely worth watching","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A must for Keitel fans (like me).  There was some sloppy film making as noted by other reviewers here. It was if they had to film the whole thing in one day, and if the light was wrong, too bad.  The plot was NOT complicated. This movie held my attention.  Keitel, even when playing a caricature of himself (as Maltin says), is engrossing on screen.  Look for Lucy Liu of TV's Ally McBeal fame. "},{"Title":"Harvey dominates the screen","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is pretty much a noir revenge story, with stone loner Roy Egan(the great Harvey Keitel) navigating the high and low of seedy LA, wending his way through dive bars, upscale LA law firms, and enduring beat downs from Asian and black gangs while pursuing THE BIG PAYBACK, son. As JB, the godfather of soul might say, His patience thin, he want revenge. Harvey reluctantly joins a heist crew led by little brother Hutton that will knock off high-end jewelry store connected to the Russian mob. The brutally executed caper is successful, but then Skip Kovic (Dorff) goes turncoat, cancels some of the crew, including little brother, and now Harvey is out for blood. The big man looks good, obviously still hitting the weights, with some Risky Business shades and tieless Man in the Arrow shirt look. Okay, so he is in his late 50's, with a bit of a gut, and he walks with a little swayback. But, you know what, this is the man who pulled off Fingers son, and he would dominate the screen even if he walked around LA reading from the Congressional registry. Best scene In his small hotel room after the post-robbery bloodbath, Harvey cuts through any Hamlet-style vacillation by pounding a card table with escalating fury, overturning it, sending out an unholy moan, and then setting out to kick some serious A. Only Harvey could turn a wordless moan and the act of overturning a card table into a statement of existential despair. Second best when the big man gives a slimy bartender a beat down. About this second scene post-robbery, Harvey goes to a hoodlum hangout, and tries to bribe the bartender for the whereabouts of Skip Kovic (Dorff). The bartender, who we know is in the know, tells Harvey to f- off, and Harvey steps back, squints, and waits, cigarette dangling. That goof with his silly goatee starts scrambling forward from the bar. Harvey administers a serious beat-down, KEEPING HIS CIGARETTE IN HIS MOUTH THE WHOLE TIME. Oh, and he picks up a gun for good measure. Now that is MOVIE MAKING, son. Irvin could have 86'd Eliot Gould and Michael Jai White, and the other Hollywood B-types trying to give the movie some bogus street cred. I buy Eliot Gould as a mobster as easily as I can buy a slurpee using a $3bill earned from my paper route on Mars. More of the stupendously sexy Famke Jannsen. And a nice cameo with Lucy Liu as a stripper with a SM motif. If Irvin was trying to channel the spirit of Michael Mann, he might have added more dialogue and made the Dorff character more complex. Still, I'll be here when City of 2 (Electric Boogaloo) comes out. "}{"Title":"Great Flick","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with Stephen.  I watched this film mainly to see Harvey Keitel's  work I was wholly unprepared for the slam-bang surprise after the heist.   I think it's a great revenge flick in the full Bronson mode. "},{"Title":"The most surprising thing about the film is how it takes such a familiar premise and gets it wrong.","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The biggest gripe I have with City of Industry is not because of its familiarity but for its execution. I love the genre of noir, pulpy crime and a couple of heist films but City of Industry is just a bank job too far; a wise talking gangster too far and a story of pulp fiction too far. City of Industry takes place in a world in which car alarms do not exist; in which if someone kicks open your apartment door and you're asleep, you do not wake up; a world in which people can survive multiple gun shot wounds without professional medical help and a world in which jewellery robbers don't wear masks. Throw in some badly done gunfights and a weak romance sub-plot and you have a sort of fun at times gritty crime film but something forgettable in the long run.The biggest problem I had with City of Industry is its point of view approach. It sounds like a funny thing to be pulling up a film for but just who exactly is the protagonist here? Who are we supposed to be following? Who's telling this story? It seems the film wants us to focus on several different characters at once but only one of them is in the film long enough for us to care for them while the others fill in the blanks when Roy Egan (Keitel) isn't on screen. At the beginning, Rachel (Janssen) and Jorge (Dominguez) talk on the phone &#150; he is due to go to prison for a few years and Rachel, his wife, is upset about this as you'd expect only twenty minutes later the film's initial incident has happened and Jorge is out of the picture. Before you say something, this is not a spoiler because the film's premise is a guy hunts for a betrayer after they kill his two heist partners. That gives away enough right there so why does the film have its initial character build up revolve around someone it'll kill off ten minutes later?Secondly, it seems that Egan is the character from whose point of view we're seeing this. The scene that suggests this is when he's standing at the trailer door when Skip (well played by Stephen Dorff) arrives because the camera cuts to his point of view; the point of view angle is very important as it puts the audience in the character's head, so the film has changed its mind again. The closing monologue all about how it was 'our' struggle and no one will ever know 'our' story is told to us by a character who has just spent all of about nine minutes on screen. Sorry, but it's not 'your' story because you didn't even do anything bar stay at home and look after the kids &#150; at this point the protagonist (or who we think is the protagonist) has disappeared.So the film is muddled in who is delivering the film, whose story is it anyway? Think of any other film that uses voice over work and chances are when they show other characters doing things a million miles away from them, the film will never 'shift' to their point of view. And so the film's initial incident kicks Egan into action as he punches and shoots his way through the city looking for Skip, an amateur amongst professionals with his mistreating of women and his hip, fancy music. There is some fun to be had out of this little journey because the film is feeding its narrative drive (that is, revenge) with the obligatory yet entertaining scenes you expect. Egan floors a jerk of a bartender, he spends some time with the widow that is Rachel and he gets around stealing cars and interrogating people &#150; good fun, you think.But then the film steers itself off the thin track it was already on. Revenge is still in the back of the film's mind but it is not the drive anymore. There is a sub-plot that opens up involving money, owed money, stolen money; I'm not sure. All I know is that Skip gets into trouble with some African-American gangsters and hell threatens to break loose; I say 'threaten' because nothing much actually happens. If we take 1999's Payback, we can see that Porter goes after Val for the money he owes him Porter narrates and we do not get distracted by anything else until the dénouement between Val and Porter; also, whenever Val is on screen it is a constant build up of how angry Porter is and how vulnerable Val is; in City of Industry, Skip continues to act deranged and immaturely, alienating us from the film's crime world and the revenge narrative-drive is sort of substituted for a little more violence and some characters running around for some missing money.It's at this point, around about the forty-five minute mark that the film looses us; it has abandoned its approach and has opted for explosions, impossible feats and mere petty violence. Nice opening, nice little hunt for Egan until a certain point and then 'bam', we aren't having fun anymore. Then the film gives us a satisfying dénouement before cheating us again and having Egan disappear. Rachel is left to tell us how hard it was for her to get everything sorted out, but that's just silly since she didn't do anything. Maybe a better film have been eliminating Regan in the trailer park and then having Rachel go on the revenge mission &#150; what fun that might've been. "},{"Title":"Caper, Double Cross, Revenge.","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thief Harvey Keitel comes to Southern California to join his younger brother, Timothy Hutton, and a nice Latino (Wade Dominguez) and a driver (Stephen Dorff), to pull off a diamond heist at one of those high-end stores that line the main drag in Palm Springs. They are successful. As they are about to divvy up the loot, Dorff kills Hutton and Dominguez. He tries to kill Keitel too, but botches it, which is what you might call a bad mistake.Dorff takes off with all the loot and the rest of the movie has Keitel tracking him down, at the cost of a lot of money and an infinity of pain. At the end, having dispatched Dorff, the wounded and bleeding Keitel sees to it that Dominguez' widow (Famke Janssen) gets most of the money from the job. Keitel disappears, perhaps dying, and Janssen retires with her two kids to Port Arthur, Texas. End of story.A lot of this is familiar territory by now and has been done better elsewhere -- Heat, for instance, or Straight Time. But it's not badly done, despite the rather weak script. It's always interesting to see the underside of L.A. The Chinese sweat shops, the bars where the black guys hang out, everybody in shades, dilapidated single-family homes with their front yards littered with trash and children's toys, Lucy Liu doing a pole dance, San Pedro's cracking plants, dusty and mostly empty motels with propane gas tanks ready to explode at the hint of a stray bullet, careering cars knocking down utility poles and emitting showers of fake sparks, sleazy flowered shirts that scream out Dollar Store, hotels with dark apartments where you wouldn't want to live unless you like junkies for neighbors.The director handles his background people with effortless aplomb. After he shoots two of his accomplices, Dorff chases Keitel through a louche trailer park, firing wildly. When he loses his quarry, Dorff looks angrily around. When the bullets started flying, the rednecks and their dogs scramble over fences to get out of the way, only to appear at their doorways seconds later. One fat guy in a cowboy hat cocks his shotgun, and another has a pistol at his side. It's amusing. You feel that these guys have been around such situations before. But the director has kept them in long shot and doesn't make a big to-do out of the point. Nice touch.In another scene, Keitel is beating the crap out of the bartender in an empty saloon. Two Latinos walk through the door, take a quick look at what's going on, and back out again.If there's not much new in the revenge plot, the details of life in this particular social world are pretty nicely captured. Well, I must say that the villain of the piece, Dorff, is thoroughly stereotyped. There's nothing good about him. He's a young, cocky, ruthless showoff. He plays raunchy music loud in his convertible. He shoots through his own girlfriend's chest in order to plug the guy holding her from behind, and shows not a wit of remorse. The director allows Dorff to commit a fundamental error. As in Platoon, every time the F word is used, it is shouted emphatically. And bring the EFFING money! That's not how the F word is used. If anything is stressed in an utterance, it's the noun, not the adjective. Bonus point Harvey Keitel has an opportunity to howl with anger and smash some furniture.Not a memorable movie, but one worth watching for diversion. "},{"Title":"Below Average for cast","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was too predictable. Kietel plays this type of character all the time. Too many scenes were those of the c'mon, there is no way that could happen, a few were not even close to being hardly-believable. People always says its a movie, its not real but it has to be believable unless its sci-fi. I expected a better script choice from Kietel at this period in his career. For the budget of this film and the quality of the special effects, this should have been a better movie. I don't expect every movie to be Oscar worthy but when there is an A-List actor and big budget, just spend a little time and money on the writers. Based on this film, the writers should be embarrassed about going on strike. "},{"Title":"Seriously underrated","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" John Irvin's City of Industry has the grit and pessimism of another crime classic, 52 Pick-Up. Although it's not as stylish as Frankenheimer's film, it is just as violent and just as radiant (in a sleazy way). Like 52..., there are several splendid performances, not the least being that of Harvey Keitel, a vengeance-seeking career crim, and Stephen Dorff, an incredibly savage villain. Set in parts of LA you'd only want to visit on the screen, this Ken Solarz-scripted underworld drama is constantly engaging and vicious while remembering to be intelligent, too. Timothy Hutton turns in a stellar performance, as does the always-watchable Famke Janssen as a woman recently widowed by the fall-out from Dorff's betrayal of friends. Irvin is not an ostentatious director, so when his source material is weak (as it was in Raw Deal), he can't dress it in pretty clothes. But when his material is strong, as it is here, he stands back just far enough to let the story take its rightful turn. This is a seriously underrated classic. "},{"Title":"Keitel All the Way!","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was written for Harvey Keitel, it fits him like a glove; and Stephen Dorff playing the antagonist, it is a perfect fit as well!!!! These two go back and forth like a Leonard-Hearns fight from the 1980's, blow for blow.  There was a few slow spots, but all in all I highly enjoyed this film, I suggest giving it a view. "},{"Title":"Standard Urban Thriller","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Immedietly after watching CITY OF INDUSTRY I was left with the opinion of  standard urban revenge thriller  . A few days later I was still left with this opinion and a few weeks later I was left with this opinion still . I think it's safe to say that this can best be described as a  standard urban revenge thriller It plays out very much like a heist movie where some naughty men carry out a robbery and then the naughtiest man in the pack decides he's going to keep the money for himself at the expense of his colleagues . One thing this movie can never be accused of is showing that crime is easy money or that there's anything resembling honour amongst thieves . This alone makes the movie recommended Another recommendation is the performance by Harvey Keitel who is incapable of ever giving a bad performance and in this type of role as a mean bad mother who is out for revenge he's certainly in his element . Director John Irvin gets the best out of Keitel and you really believe this guy is a killer , not something you can say about one of Kietel's peers in later films - Yes Mr DeNiro I mean you Despite a heart stopping sequence when it looks like the heist merchants are going to be caught when dozens of cop cars surround them there's one or two sequences by Irvin that don't really make sense . One is where Kietel's character has to make a getaway from a dirty double crosser but the sequence cuts to night where Kietel is crawling through an irrigation ditch . What it took him several hours to move a few hundred yards ? Things like this and Elliot Gould's pointless cameo stop the movie being anything more than standard but if passes the time if you enjoy crime thrillers "},{"Title":"A jewel heist in LA was action packed!","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The opening song, how they speed down the highway,and show the tall buildings in LA was so dreamy, I knew this was gonna be a fantastic film. Harvey Keitel did a superb job and this IS a CLASSIC in my opinion...very underrated!!! Timothy Hutton has become one of my favorites after viewing and buying this movie, he is one great actor. Famke Jenssen is actress who deserves better parts. I had seen her in House on Haunted Hill, and her looks are somewhat like Barbara Steele. She really impressed me in this movie. Stephen Dorff is one of my favorites, his talents also deserve better parts, what is up with that? Fear Dot Com and Cold Creek Manor, he really needs to get back to Backbeat, Who Shot Andy Warhol? and The Power of One type parts. He also blows Jude Law away with his looks and People magazine never has him in there. I don't like when he is mean and a villain, either.All in all this is a terrific action flick, and always worth a look. I own this and watch it all the time, and never tire of it. The views of LA are magnificent with that haunting brilliant soundtrack!!! "},{"Title":"I am finding my judgment to be better than Ebert. HA!","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Against my better judgment I just totally disregarded Gene Siskel and went for it. I just saw a magnificent motion picture. I will see it again. The locale scenes were absorbing.The plot was complicated but evident. One thing led to another. This will turn into a cult film. Yes, I voted 10 for City of Industry. Fine acting, fine filming, and a fine time.  See it and then let me know.. "},{"Title":"doesn't completely butcher the genre (6.5/10)","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this was a fairly entertaining crime drama.it moved at a quick pace and it wasn't boring.i liked the fact that it didn't feel as depressing as many movies of the genre.it's still dark and gritty,just not oppressive.it pretty much follows the standard formula.betrayal,leading to revenge ending in bloodshed,usually death.it's all pretty predictable,and there a few illogical moments.still,it is entertaining for what it is.what elevates this material though, is Harvey Keitel,who makes just about any film he's in better than it otherwise might have been.Stephen Dorff,Timothy Hutton,Famke Janssen,Michael Jai White,and Wade Dominguez co star.and Lucy Liu also has a small role.recommended as long as you know what you're in for.it doesn't break any new ground,but it doesn't completely butcher the genre either.for me,City of Industry is a 6.5/10 "}{"Title":"I'm my own police.","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sure, you can find some plots holes in this film big enough to drive a semi through, but that just keeps it from gathering awards, not from being worth a view.If you like revenge flicks, and noir, and lots of action, as well as a look at Lucy's Little Lius as she does a pole dance, then you might find this film interesting.What makes it most interesting, however, is the presence of Harvey Keitel. Having him hunting you down is a real bummer. He manages to get shot and almost beat to a pulp by the Chinese, and still keeps on ticking like a Timex. Maybe he just dreamed of being on the beach in Port Arthur with Famke Janssen (of X-Men fame). It could have happened! Check it out to see who wins and loses and enjoy the ride because it is worth it. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not bad, but the only thing i didn't like was the beginning. It was very cliché and its a particularly overused intro. For those that haven't seen it, or the ones that don't know what i am talking about, it was like shots out of a car window as the car was going along the highway. Also i wasn't particularly fond of the way the titles and credits where done. But yea other than that it was quite cool. All the explosions and gun stuff what quite cool. However, it was a good movie considering the time it was made. The story was a bit week at times but then a lot of film story's are getting week nowadays. I know the cinematographer for this, Thomas Burstyn, and I know he is definitely very good with colour and shots. Also i do believe he did that intro bit with just a normal handy-cam. "},{"Title":"A finely filmed Crime drama.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film thinking it might be only at B-movie standard due to it's lack of critical acclaim and subtle quietness. But what I found here was a classic example of a missed hit. Harvey Keitel is equally humane and menacing in a strong lead and enough foul language and evil threats to fill the pants of all he opposes. Tim Hutton is an exceptional talent but his being killed early is inevitable for the plot but a pity that such a worth-while actor is killed off so quickly. Dorff is quite surprisingly humorous and wicked as the back-stabbing, greedy, loose cannon. The entire movie is shot with respectable courage and no fear to really bring out the most notoriously devilish sides of all the characters, especially Roy, an almost psychotic robber, but who also shows great sympathy and care towards one robber's wife, played by Famke Janssen. Overall, a powerful and brutal crime-drama, but not for the faint hearted. "},{"Title":"Classy Production makes this one a winner","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even the incredibly weak story line didn't stop me from enjoying this film. It would rank as one of the best films of this genre that I have seen. Harvey Keitel once again shows his brilliance. The cinematography hit the spot just perfectly for this kind of movie. "},{"Title":"Cult gangster/robbery movie - not many around so a must se","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Good movie worth seeing as theres not many in this genre. "},{"Title":"Violent and exciting movie about seedy delinquents who pull off a fateful heist in L.A.","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a studio character with tones of suspense about some two-fisted criminals in L.A city . An old thief named Roy Egan (Harvey Keitel) , is drawn into the final jewel heist to Russian Mafia when his youngest brother named Lee (Timothy Hutton) asks him for a last score before they get out of the game . Lee forms a motley group (Keitel , Wade Dominguez and Stephen Dorff) to carry out the violent robbing . Unfortunately for him , Lee's picked one wrong partner and the events get worse . One of them decides he doesn't want to share the goods and betrays the group and happens murders and wreak havoc .The retired thief swears revenge on the lunatic who murdered his partners, while going on the run with the loot they stole.This modern adaptation of noir cinema contains thrills , intrigue, explosive scenes of action and over-riding feeling of heat . Interesting premise in which takes places a moving cat-and-mouse hunt through the seedier sides of L.A . Exciting and stirring finale full of shootouts , violence and fights into a factory . Good performances from all-star cast as Harvey Keitel as an old pro robber who has vowed to avenge his brother , Stephen Dorff as a volatile , violent wheelman and Famke Janssen as a suffering wife . Nice musical score including an emotive song at the beginning . Colorful cinematography by Thomas Burstyn who permeates the whole movie even in the hours of night and darkness .The motion picture is professionally directed by John Irvin with a well-achieved realization and elaborate scenes , though doesn't always live up to its promise . He worked extensively in TV before making his film debut with ¨The dogs of war¨ a cool rendition of a best-seller by Frederick Forsyth dealing with mercenaries in Africa. He went on directing ¨Ghost story¨ starred by old Hollywood-all-star and ¨Champions¨ about a courageous recovery from cancer stricken a steeple-chase jockey . After that , he realized a fine Vietnam movie as ¨The Hamburger Hill¨, ¨Turtle diary¨, an Arnold Szwenegger vehicle as ¨Raw Deal¨ and a good and realistic TV ¨Robin Hood¨. Finally , he made underrated films that not had the same inspiration since them as ¨Next of kin¨ , ¨Eminent domain¨ , ¨Freefall¨ and a sparkling comedy ,¨Widows peak¨ and is also of note a wartime genre as ¨When trumpets fade¨(1998). And of course , ¨City of Industry¨ , being one of the jewels in Irvin's crown , it results to be one of this most interesting works and an efficient contemporary Noir which had moderated success . "},{"Title":"Another well made violent crime movie, except for&#x85; !","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" No doubt it's catchy, incisive and coming to the point as no-nonsense movie. I loved the cast. (Famke Janssen)'s performance and beauty (her hair was exceptional !), (Harvey Keitel)'s silent mountainous anger, and (Stephen Dorff)'s attitude; they did the job finely. And I loved some scenes as well; like (Keitel) exploding with pain in a closed room, or getting out with the laptop debonairly, (Dorff) screaming devilishly (Rooooyyyy).. but as a whole it wasn't all flawless.Firstly, there are no depths, if you would think that that was a shortcoming. I mean the relationship between the lead and the woman was poor. Surely it doesn't need to develop into a romance, but with another treatment it could have been more memorable or touchy. However according to the movie's character as another violent crime movie it's the small shortcoming.Now medium shortcoming  the title. (City of Industry) fits a documentary more than a crime movie; especially this crime movie. The time that we have watched got nothing to do with a title of that kind. It's just a way to describe the background of the events with no serious shadows. I hate when they allege a meaning or a singularity by only a strange, outwardly profound, title !Then the X Large shortcoming  the theft. This is unquestionably the stupidest heist in the history of mankind. How they went to steal a bank in the high noon with no masks, no gloves, and no disguise or whatsoever ??!! If there were no cameras recording them, what about the people themselves ??! Shame on this movie makers and cast as well. This is, sorrowfully, pure nonsense ! It's half heist, half revenge movie. Great ? No. Average ? Yes. Watchable and satisfying ? Of course. "},{"Title":"Too familiar","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'City of Industry' has a nice first half hour and a fine Harvey Keitel to keep the other minutes entertaining. Keitel is Roy Egan who seeks revenge. After a score he is betrayed by Skip (Stephen Dorff), who killed Roy's brother Lee (Timothy Hutton) and a fourth person who helped with the score named Jorge (Wade Dmoniguez).The first half hour I was talking about shows us some preparations for the score, the score itself and the betrayal. Although it is not much we haven't seen before it is pretty good and entertaining. After this I liked Keitel. I liked his outbursts, his emotions on screen, the way he handles certain things (and people), and I liked his moments with Jorge's wife Rachel (Famke Janssen).I liked these things but the story is as predictable as it can get. Dorff is a nice villain, but he is as predictable as the plot and that doesn't make him very interesting. His violent side is effective, and sometimes funny as well, but it doesn't add anything to the character.In the end I wasn't really bored with this movie. I had a pretty good time although a lot of things didn't make much sense. In one scene it is day, in the next it is night, but the events we see seem to happen only moments later. It made me wonder, even smile a little. My guess is this was not the intention of the movie. "},{"Title":"A failed HEIST FILM classic.","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film had a lot going for it - Timothy Hutton, Harvey Keitel and Stephen Dorff all did admirable jobs with what they were given. There is a great dichotomy in the look of the film, the sunny California sky and the Industrial backdrops. The effect makes it look like Blade Runner in the daytime, Palm Springs and L.A. both look their grittiest. The music is very well done too. One thing I find strange though is that none of the comments have mentioned that this is essentially a Richard Stark novel. Almost every novel starring Parker, Stark's master thief, has the plot of this film A heist followed by revenge on one of the double-crossing heisters. Had the tough-minded aspect continued through to the end, had Roy Egan (our pseudo-Parker for this film) been more of a stone faced professional in private as well as public, had he thought of himself instead of the girl (Famke Jansen) and her welfare this would have been a Parker movie. Had Keitel been directed to act more like Robert Duvall in The Outfit and less like Mel Gibson in Payback we'd have a serious classic on our hands. What we have here is a failed classic. There are scenes that work by themselves. Just after the heist the heisters are pulling away in their getaway sedan. They stop art a stoplight and a half-dozen police cars approach them. The tension in that scene is terrific.If you liked CITY OF INDUSTRY try these filmsHEAT directed by Michael Mann, starring Robert DeniroTHIEF directed by Michael Mann, starring James CannRESERVOIR DOGS directed by Quentin TarantinoTHE OUTFIT directed by John Flynn, starring Robert Duvall & Joe Don BakerPOINT BLANK directed by John Boorman, starring Lee MarvinTHE KILLING directed by Stanley Kubrick "},{"Title":"I keep coming back","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's interesting to read all the reviews here, describing the movie as either fascinating and mediocre. I'd be confused! Anyway, there are not many movies to which I keep coming back, watching them again and again. This is one of them. I'm not sure why. On the surface, it's just another LA crime movie. But it really gets under your skin, deeper and deeper. Part of it has to do with me living here in LA, for sure. Most of the locations I can recognize, and have some own personal stories connected to them. It really captures the vibe of the city, of its underbelly, its dark undercurrent. The characters, the streets... I've seen it, I breathed that air... anyway, I highly recommend it, if you're into some deep film noir groove.  "}{"Title":"One simple jewel heist wrong. Very wrong","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good crime tale, with superb acting from Janssen, Keitel, and Dorff. The twist is completly unexpected, and took my by surprise. After that, the movie just got better with a memorable performance by Famke Janssen, one of Hollywoods underated actress. John Irvin did a good job directing the movie, moving it at a pace thats just right. Its not too slow or fast so the movie mounts suspense as it nears the end. The opening credits are also memorable. With haunting music and a depressing view of a industrial area. The only problem with the film is Timothy Hutton's role is short. He is a good actor, too good to have such a short role. Overall, the movie has a excellent story combined with the acting from Janssen, Keitel, and Dorff. All of this makes this at the very least, an enjoyable watch. "},{"Title":"A Noir Classic","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  City Of Industry is the bleak and noirish tale of a group of jewel thieves, who after pulling off a heist is betrayed and killed by the driver Skip(Dorff).  The only survivor Roy (Keitel) is now out too seek vengeance for his brothers death and to get back the merchandise.  Harvey Keitel shines as Roy Egan, he's at his badass best here people and Stephen Dorff does fine as Skip.  City Of Industry is a must for all Keitel fans.  But the film isn't just about vengeance and severe beatings.  It very powerful with a knockout finale which leaves the viewer with goose bumps.  I love this flick!  Check it out! "},{"Title":"Haven't i seen this before?","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh good another heist gone wrong movie - and it stars Harvey Keitel! The film started well and I thought it would compare favourably with other heist movies.  However this one is pretty slow and not really interesting. Stephen Dorff is just mean and doesn't really act.  Harvey Keitel is OK but elements of his performance are unoriginal and it's almost like the director said Harvey - remember that bit at the end of Resevoir Dogs where you cried and struggled with your emotions? ok do that!.Every element of this film reaks of copy of other films with the end result being quite poor.Don't confuse the slow dark atmosphere of this film for it being thoughtful or deep - it's an atmospheric copy of better films. "},{"Title":"Keitel is riveting. Stephen Dorff is outstanding as Skip, charming yet ready to blow at any time","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Harvey Keitel comes to play, delivering a fully-formed and convincing portrait of a professional criminal who wants revenge--and the loot that's been stolen from him.Violent and cynical, City of Industry is everything a crime film should be gut wrenching, powerful and intensely gripping.solid performances in Backbeat and Blood and Wine behind him, Dorff expands his range with a convincing portrayal of youthful amorality. City of Industry is, of course dominated by Keitel, the god head of indie crime films. Working with limited dialogue, he plumbs each gesture for everything that it's worth. Like his bad lieutenant and Mr. White, Roy is another classic creation.. Here is a film noir thriller that plunges the viewer in the dark underbelly of urban Los Angeles, City of Industry is a well crafted work that uses the city in question in a way rarely seen on film, aided by some sharply realised camera-work, that allows the viewer to be drawn on the journey faced by Roy. Keitel excels in playing these seemingly dark, complex souls and manages to give a polished, understated performance as a seemingly cold but deeply human killer to whom we are strangely drawn. Though he' killed off, Timothy Hutton is superb as the unfortunate younger brother, while the always vivid Stephen Dorff gives an urgent, energetic performance as the psychotic Skip. As the sole female of any note, former Bond beauty Famke Janssen is haunting as Rachel. Director Irvin creates mood and tension through use of camera-work and evocative lighting, and though the film is by no means flawless, especially in its relentless violence, it's nonetheless an arresting and fascinating cinematic journey.Keitel is riveting. Stephen Dorff is outstanding as Skip, charming yet ready to blow at any time, while Timothy Hutton is gripping as Lee. These characters drive this thriller, set in a gritty, ruthless Los Angeles. This is a film of contrasts and extremes that heads towards a new beginning; uncompromising, thrilling and engrossing entertainment. "},{"Title":"Not your average run of the mill PULP FICTION wannabe","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" SPOILER ALERT! Easy to dismiss as another in a series of PULP FICTION wannabes, this is much better than expected. Directed with a lot of finesse by John Irvin and starring Harvey Keitel, CITY OF INDUSTRY is a fine crime thriller. Keitel is part of a gang of thieves (which also includes his brother), ripped off by loony cohort Stephen Dorff. A tense game of cat and mouse takes place as Keitel tries to track Dorff down. Keitel, who could easily sleepwalk through this type of film, gives a very good performance (he takes a real beating...several times) and has a lot of chemistry with Famke Janssen (as the widow of one of his cronies). The film is not flawless. The night photography is at times too dark, there is surely one too many name-less characters chasing Keitel, and Dorff is not really threatening enough to be convincing. Nevertheless, it's a well put together revenge film. Stephen Endelman's staccato music is a big plus. "},{"Title":"Industrious types, those gangsters&#133;","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Harvey Keitel is so good as an actor, it's difficult to find words suitable to praise. And, even when playing a bad guy, he always manages to show the human side of even the worst of types...Because, make no mistake, in this story he's a tough minded, no-nonsense killer, Roy Egan, out to settle a score &#150; the psychopathic wheel-man, after the diamond heist just completed, has killed Egan's brother, Lee (Timothy Hutton) and a buddy, Jorge (Wade Dominquez) and run off with the loot. Hence, Roy sets out to find the wheel-man Skip (Stephen Dorff), kill him and recover that loot &#150; now converted to cash.Yes, this type of story has been done many times Point Blank (1967), its remake Payback (1999) and many other similar films. But, the attraction for a story about righting an injustice never fades, even if it is between gangsters and all. And, this is also where we can all revel lustily in the bad guys getting what's coming to them &#150; and not feel guilty about our own atavistic desires. Catharsis never had it so good...Although, some of the scenes are very bloody, so this is not a movie for the faint of heart or stomach. Which makes the ending all the more curious and almost out of place &#150; as if to say that even from the worst of situations, some good will come to those who deserve it. Like there's always a silver lining?Well-photographed and edited, in and around Los Angeles, the action rarely stops for a breather, and rightly so. The music soundtrack would appeal to some, but not this viewer; that from To Live and Die in LA (1985), for example, was much better. All of the actors were well cast, although it was a surprise to see Hutton in a real bad guy role. As the wheel man Skip, Stephen Dorff steals the show, no question &#150; a great act.If you like the tough gangster act, then run and get this one. You'll love it...as I did.But, what a title!! "},{"Title":"Might be worth a rental","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, there is some pretty good action, and Dorff is decent as a pretty maniacal guy who just likes to shoot people. The real treat is the nude scene by Lucy Liu...Keitel plays the part of the wronged brother well enough, but the audience is expected to believe quite a bit of material that is tough to swallow. "},{"Title":"mediocre blood bath","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Try and remember this one a week after you see it.  Gives the impression that they filmed a first draft.  Keitel's worth watching but there's absolutely nothing else.  "},{"Title":"I waited for the good part, but it never came.","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Good atmosphere, but ultimately empty. I love Keitel's work and was prepared to enjoy this movie.  I did, for about the first half of the movie.  Then came the jarring errors in continuity, like Keitel climbing out of a lake in the dark, breathing heavily, after being chased there in daylight. And the clumsy look-he-dropped-the-motel-key scene (how did Keitel get back into his room after that?). I'm still wondering about the black and Chinese gangs, and what they had to do with anything else in the movie. All in all, I kept waiting for the dynamic climax that would explain why the movie was made, but it never happened. Recommended for fans of good L.A. photography, and for fans of mindless violence (I expected a lot of things from this movie, but mindless wasn't one of them). "},{"Title":"Keitel (and Liu) and a couple other people whose names I forget.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really dislike Stephen Dorf in all but one role in one movie - and this isn't it (I'm referring to Cecil B. Demented).But what this story loses with Dorf's unnecessary hamminess, it picks up in Harvey Keitel's exquisite performance as a professional jewel thief on his last job, who suddenly finds everything shot to hell due to the greedy Dorf character - including his brother.There are indeed problems with this movie, but the essential grittiness the script calls for remains, which thus leaves Keitel in his element, and he does fine .Oh, the film also has a naked Lucy Liu before she became famous, and besides being very hot, she does a fine job in a bit part as an abused former mistress of the Dorf-guy. You know you've got a future star on screen when it's a small role and you wanna shout - wait! not enough! more of this on! And I admit that despite her splashy roles over the past couple of years, I still think the perfect role is still waiting for her, and her fans are still waiting to see it. "}{"Title":"Not Again!","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oh boy! Another Heist Gone Wrong movie! And, wouldn't you think that Harvey Keitel would be getting tired of these? After Reservoir Dogs, you'd think he'd want a break!But, not here. The heist is planned, carried out, and, guess what?!, there is instant double crossing, shooting and everything else. Heavens! The second that happened, I pretty much checked out, and just waited the rest of the movie out.And, of course, it's a final heist for Keitel's character. So, that naturally means that everything's going to go wrong, guaranteed!The film is entirely on the shoulders of Harvey Keitel's performance. His fearless brand of acting is what make the film worth watching.But, it's standard plot makes it not worth it otherwise.****** (6 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"A fairly gripping crime thriller that falls a bit flat","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" About 3 ½ years ago, I came across a copy of this movie in the video store. I had never heard of it, and knew nothing about its general reception. I read the blurb on the back of the case, and thought it looked interesting, so I decided to rent it. By the time I watched it, I think I knew it wasn't the most popular crime thriller ever made, and like probably many other viewers, I was disappointed, finding it to be a rather weak film of its genre. Earlier this week, I rented it again. I couldn't remember it that well from my first viewing, and decided to give it a second chance. This time, I had lower expectations than before, but was expecting to be more impressed than I was the first time, which I was. That doesn't mean I didn't notice any severe flaws this time, though.Roy Egan is a retired thief who is lured out of retirement by his younger brother, Lee, for a major jewel heist. Lee has chosen two other partners for this robbery, Jorge Montana and Skip Kovich. The heist is a success, but afterwards, Skip gets greedy and suddenly kills Lee and Jorge! He tries to kill Roy as well, but the veteran thief manages to get away! After this, Roy swears to have his vengeance for the killing of his brother, and sets out on a mission to find the whereabouts of Skip! During this mission, his foe realizes he is searching for him, and is obviously not going to make it any easier for him. Roy isn't the only one who has suffered a loss in the family as a result of Skip's greed and insanity. The lunatic's other victim, Jorge, has left behind his wife and kids. His widow, Rachel, is eventually involved in Roy's mission after she learns what has happened to her husband.Harvey Keitel plays the starring role of Roy Egan, and does a decent job, but this may not be the case with the entire cast. I didn't care much for Stephen Dorff as Skip Kovich, but I'm not entirely sure if that was because of the actor's performance or because of the character. The characters in this film are generally pretty shallow. There isn't much emotional depth or detail to them. However, at least there are some characters I could sympathize with, most notably Rachel Montana, and I guess Roy Egan to a certain extent. There are fairly weak moments, such as some unnecessary sex scenes (at least one involving Skip and his girlfriend), the film drags at times, and the dialogue may not be perfect. Despite these flaws, there's still at least some suspense, as well as poignant moments, and enough to keep me interested until the end, during my second viewing, that is.Now that I've seen City of Industry twice, I don't exactly think it's bad, as I definitely found more redeeming qualities the second time than I did the first (I'm not sure if I really found any the first time), and a major reason for this is that it just MIGHT be a better film to watch alone. On the other hand, it's still a flawed thriller, flawed enough for me to see why it's so polarizing and has been widely overlooked since its release in the late 90's. I wouldn't have really been missing out on THAT much if I had never noticed this film in the video store several years ago (meaning I still wouldn't be aware of its existence now), and I certainly wouldn't consider it a must-see for anyone, but if you like this genre, maybe this movie will do. Just don't expect anything too brilliant or original. "},{"Title":"Seen this, watched that...","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Keitel IS the film. That is about the only real positive I can say. It is a warmed-over Reservoir Dogs (insert double-cross flick name here). Dorff does his typical bad boy. Oh, and Lucy Liu topless, and pun intended by top-less. The cinematography was lit well for being naturally brooding. A few different camera angles were thrown in just so the viewer realizes this was a film and not some cheesy TV crime show. But not much better...except for Harvey K. and a nice turn by Elliot Gould. Famke does a nice job too, but seems to be trying too hard to show her legit acting after her Bond girl coming out party. I tried to like it, but this film seems too familiar and not oh wow enough to be highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Excellent little film with amazing acting especially from Famke Janssen","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I loved this movie i caught it on TV and wasn't expecting much it surprised me the twist at the beginning of the movie is very unexpected and shocking Keitel is good as the guy hungry for revenge but he's not the kind of actor who makes you feel sorry for me Famke Janssen compensated that by an amazing dramatic role too bad she had little to do in the first half of the movie but once the movie starts to focus on her it gets better and better! Doroff is great as the villain , Lucy Liu is also in this in a very small but nude role!i look forward to seeing him in other films overall great movie a must see for all Famke Janssen fans! "},{"Title":"dull dull dull","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's sad to say, but City of Industry is a dull movie. Oh yeah, you get fine performances from Keitel and Hutton (and also a slightly over the top one from Dorff) but there's nothing here that truly turns you on. Rather ordinary plot, average filming, and (now) usual use of violence for that kind of movie. I bet Clint Eastwood would have done a better job directing this ! "},{"Title":"Is this the worst paced film ever?","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worst films that I have ever seen, the director obviously had no idea of how to pace a film and I found myself fighting off the impending onset of sleep every ten minutes. No wonder this film did not succeed on general release in the UK "},{"Title":"city of industry is a good movie but not a patch on the triple cross","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" City of Industry is a copy of the KINJI FUKUSAKU'triple cross from the director of Battle Royale. City of Industry has got its good moments but it is not a patch on Triple Cross it is almost the same story line with some differences. If I was you I would see the two of them because they are two good movies and will keep you happy to the end Harvey Keitel is a very good actor and he does not disappoint you in this movie ever.Stephen Dorfe plays a very good bad guy and Timothy Hutton is not bad either it is a good revenge movie and not a bad heist movie either, don't get it mixed up with Reservoir Dogs because it is a different type of movie all together except from there being a heist in it but it is more of a revenge movie. "},{"Title":" Absolutely pointless retread of the gangster revenge flick...","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the appearance of Harvey Keitel in the lead role - usually a sign of an intelligent if not necessarily particularly good move -,and a decent director, this is a cruddy film which takes its lead not from the great caper movies of yore but from more modern versions like Payback and the cycle of films from the martial arts boys like Connors and Van Damme. How many times have we seen this plot re-enacted  Guy double-crosses his buddies, survivor goes after him. Nothing wrong with that if the writing is good, and the characters are interesting and the situations given a twist. But this film has nothing but Keitel as the guy on the side of the angels beating people up and getting beaten and shooting people and getting shot and killing people (but not getting killed himself obviously). Apart from Famke Jannson, who is a stunning-looking lady and not a bad actress, the film has absolutely nothing going for it except for its pointless violence. A film for morons, therefore, the sort that thought Payback was a goodie. "},{"Title":"A letter to Stephen Dorff.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Dear Stephen,Please don't let yourself become type-cast as a villain!  Remember Backbeat and The Power of One?  You have a great range as an actor.  Okay Blade was fun - but this guy?  A caricature villain in a realistic film just doesn't work.  Of course it's not entirely your fault - there's that lousy script and the slowly paced pretentious direction.  I think the director felt he was directing something much more meaningful than this shoot-em-up revenge nonsense.  And at times he did display a neat visual style that may have worked with a better screenplay.  Okay Stephen, so you did it for the chance to work with Harvey.  Who wouldn't?  But he deserves better than this too.  Mind you he plays the part with the tragic weight of Hamlet - and he almost makes it believable.  But what was Timothy Hutton doing?  He is a brilliant actor - but he is completely wasted (literally in the end!).  Maybe he did it for Harvey too.  So please Stephen choose more carefully next time - and remember you're a good good guy too.Love,David. "}]