[{"Title":"Just an EXCELLENT movie","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand how this movie is so unknown by most of the people.Simply put, this is an amazing film. Eamonn Owens' performance is just unbelievable.There are some serious and sensitives themes in this movie (murder, suicidal thoughts, alcoholism, child abuse, religion) however it's not a disturbing movie (it has its moments though). The reason for the lack of disturbance in this film is because we're seeing everything from the perspective of a little boy.The Butcher Boy is, for sure, one of the best dark comedies/dramas that I've seen. Highly recommendable. "},{"Title":"Very Dark Stuff","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE BUTCHER BOY comically chronicles a young boy's descent into madness.  The boy provides a voice-over from the present to tell the story of his youth in an Irish village in the early 60s.  His father's a violent drunk, and his mother is already insane, so it's not difficult to explain why the kid is losing his mind.  It's just that he really doesn't know he's going crazy.  He believes he's leading a perfectly normal life as we watch in horror as his actions grow more violent and frightening.  And it's a comedy!Neil Jordan is a craftsman and creates a very enjoyable movie even given the very dark subject matter.  The child actor's are great, the best I've seen this side of PONETTE.  If the subject and its treatment don't put you off you will like this movie.  If not, try something else.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant.  Simply, brilliant.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just caught this movie on cable; I hadn't heard of it before.It is a brilliant film; black comedy of the blackest sort.  What is truly amazing is the acting ability of lead Eamonn Owens; in my mind the finest performance of a kid his age that I've ever seen.The sardonic humor of this film, the way it treats such horrible things as lightly as it does, the acting, the script, the quaint narrative devices, and sense of menace cloaked in charming small town Irish life make this a thoroughly original and engaging character study.Sinead O'Connor is a scream as the Virgin Mary.The thick accents in this film make it a little bit difficult to follow in parts, but American audiences should still be able to understand most of the dialogue.I cannot recommend this film highly enough; it is proof that you can still make a quality movie without buying into cheap Hollywood cliches. "},{"Title":"An extremely Powerful, well acted and brilliantly written film.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil Jordan, famed for such hits as Michael Collins and The Crying Game, returns to a much more conventional style of filmmaking. This time he leaves out the stars no Liam Neeson, no Aidan Quinn, no Julia Roberts. This time it's cinema verite a sotto-voce cast (barring Stephen Rea) which takes the mind off the actors and onto the film.Which is good, because the film is a ripsnorter. It's a powerful expose on how children can turn out horribly wrong through a tough childhood. There is no fancy cinematography or cutesy-pie moments; no Hollywood endings or Schwarzenegger stick-ups. This is pure black comedy which relies on a fabulous script.It revolves around the life of Francie Brady, a young Irish boy who gets up to all sorts of mischief. Him and his friend, Joe, are the local troublemakers in Dublin. But, there's more to Francie than one would think. His is a soul which is black at the core, and the passing of prominent figures in his life, as well as time spent in and out of juvenile detention centres, plus the dirty priests which govern the schools, sends the boy over the edge.He paints a picture of hyperbole. Francie always seems happy, energetic and ready for action, yet boiling up inside of him are bloody demons and unimaginable violence. It's that hyperbole which creates so much tension in the movie, just wondering what he'll do and when he'll do it.The film is narrated by an older Francie, one who has spent his life in a prison for the mentally insane. His narration is humorous and ironic, yet occasionally it derives some of the power from the movie because of its light-hearted, schmultzy comments. Francie sometimes talks to his older self, making one remember Ferris Beuler's Day Off, but apart from that, the film is fantastic.It lags in parts. Occasional scenes are drawn out and lengthy, and you just want to scream out, pick up the damn butcher's knife and kill someone! To make the film increase in pace. But that's not a major problem, that might just be my attention span, if you didn't have those scenes you wouldn't have such a poignant movie.The Butcher Boy has a very satisfactory denouement. We all took our childhood for granted. It had its ups, it had its downs. This is a film which portrays what sort of childhood arises from continuous downs, dominated by misery and loss, and how much of an effect it can have on such an impressionable mind. This is a wonderful, black, violent, dramatic and hilarious movie. A rare offering, indeed.Nine out of ten. "},{"Title":"Weird but great!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Butcher Boy is a very weird film...This boy Francie has a bad influence; his father. His father is a violent man, alcoholic, but he loves his son a lot...This boy is very well played by Eamonn Owens, a young actor I didn't know before who surely worths a look at his performance. Stephen Rea is perfect in the role of the violent father, and Fiona Shaw is great in the role of a woman who hates Francie, because he beats up her son. But Francie is dangerous...The story is a mix of fear, hate, madness, happiness, that is mixed up in that little boy's brain. Sometimes, he's the good boy who protects his mother and sometimes he is the murderer...Francie is full of contradictions, and he tries to put happiness and death together. The narrator is very funny, but sometimes tells innapropriate things for the images we watch...but that's the psychotic part of it...incredibly well-shot, this film deserves lots of attention. I bought it for five stupid dollars...and Lost In Space was fifteen dollars...and the video sold it because of the lack of rentals...well, too bad for this video, they have one less good film on the shelf.... Neil Jordan brought us The Crying Game, Interview With The Vampire, In Dreams and some other good films...but I believe this one is his finest job...it's like watching Sleepers, Psycho and A Clockwork Orange at the same time. One thing that could be a problem; the accent of the characters when they speak...but I was happy to see that it was not set in the United States...Great film... I give it 85% and maybe it deserves better. "},{"Title":"An odd little gem","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went to my local video store last night and walked straight to its awesome horror section.  I was specifically looking for this movie, as i had seen it in the store before, and was about to see it until my friend decided that we'd walk out with Joy Ride.  The cover of this movie intrigued me, and lead me to think that it would be a darkly comeidic yet still very scary story about a boy's descent into madness.The Butcher Boy is about an Irish boy, Francie, whose domestic life is miserable.  His dad is always drunk and his mother is mentally unstable.  However, he lets his anger out through his mischevous behavior in the town, particularly directed towards Mrs Nugent and her son, a perfect mother with a perfect son.  Francie is also best friends with Joe, a sensitive kid of whom we get the impression from that he is losing interest in Francie's treatings of others, which are going a bit too far.A lot more happens in The Butcher Boy, but if you don't like what you just got, don't see the movie.  Though it's not slow, Francie's character development seems to drag, and Neil Jordan seems to advance his personality just before we've had enough.  The acting is what makes the movie what it is.  Somebody call Eamonn Owens and give this kid a part in a movie.  He owns the movie, he is the movie.  Words cannot describe how good th' young laddie is at acting as the troubled Francie.  This has to be one of my favorite acting performances of all time, right up there with Jason Schwartzman in Rushmore, and Kiefer Sutherland in Stand By Me.  This kid needs a good role badly.  Everybody else is decent, though i feel that Stephen Rea as Francie's father underplayed the role, and could've added more depth to the character.  The character seemed to be waiting to become lively and three dimensional, but Rea went for the B minus and stopped there.  The butcher boy was not what I expected, and if you're looking for a horror movie about madness, look elsewhere.  If you want a dramatic character study with a child actor better than a million Haley Joel Osments,  this is for you.  It is thought provoking, upsetting, and doesn't beg for it at all.  How many movies can you say that about? "},{"Title":"An odd little gem of a film","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'd be lying if I claimed that the original reason I saw this wasn't anything as simple and basic as curiosity... the plot simply sounds so bizarre that one can't help but wonder about the movie itself. The movie is a wonderful mix of surrealism, drama and black comedy. As another reviewer points out, the accents may make the dialog a little hard to make out... I was fortunate enough to have subtitles(as any Dane will tell you, we get subtitles on everything that is presented to us on a screen), but I think most anyone who has a good enough grasp on the English language(and a good ear wouldn't hurt) will be able to understand, at the very least, enough of it to follow what's going on. The film is quite disturbing... it's told by a psychotic, and everything is seen from his point of view, making the line between truth and fantasy blur. The narrative is impressive, underplaying some scenes to great effect. The plot is interesting. The pacing is a tad uneven... while most of the film moves as it should, not too fast nor too slow, there are parts where it seems to come to a complete halt. Luckily, these parts are few and far between. The characters are well-written and credible. They are also all competently portrayed. The acting... wow. What can I say? Eamonn Owens is nothing short of an artist. As you watch the film(which I hope you will), observe his eyes... look into them, as he looks around menacingly, and tell me that you don't feel fear. Pure fear. One is reminded of Donald Pleasence's marvelous monologue about Michael Myers' eyes(in Halloween, for the uninitiated). That stare... if I ever met Owens in real life, I doubt I'd dare look him in the eye. Even more impressively, this was his debut performance. I'll have to watch more of his movies, to see if he can pull off other roles as well, but he certainly nailed this one. Stephen Rea was great... I've seen him in nothing else, but I could recognize his face from the trailers for V for Vendetta, a movie I'm looking forward to(even more now that I know he will grace the film with what is sure to be just as astounding a performance as he gave here), even though I'm sure it won't live up to Alan Moore's graphic novel. Sinéad O'Connor was a blast(and seemed to be having one, as well) as Our Lady. I haven't been able to find out who portrayed the main character as an adult, but let me tell you, his voice acting is grand. The narration definitely adds to the film, both in use and in acting. The writing is great. The whole film is highly entertaining and very poignant. This should be seen by just about anyone who can live with(and more importantly, understand) the language and take the disturbing nature of the film. I recommend this to anyone who is afraid of neither accents nor the disturbing images contained herein. Very funny and quite unsettling. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Lurid And Exuberant","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Butcher Boy is exuberant, funny and horrific. It's passionate and inventive and unforgettable. The Butcher Boy was directed by Irishman Neil Jordan who's previous films are impressive. They include The Crying Game, Mona Lisa, Interview With A Vampire, and Michael Collins.The Butcher Boy is based on a novel by Patrick McCabe who also co-wrote the screen play. I'm very pleased to relate that The Butcher Boy isn't based on a true story!!! I sure hope it isn't anyway.The Butcher Boy is about a lad who commits a horrific murder in a rural Irish town. But the film certainly isn't solemn. Jordan has enlivened an essentially gory tale with a touch of inventive, sometimes humorous magic realism (a bewigged Sinead O'Connor plays The Virgin Mary). Jordan is also blessed by having available a wonderfully gifted leading actor.Fifteen year old Eamonn Owens, a schoolboy in real life from near where The Butcher Boy was shot, plays 12 year old Francie Brady.  Francie finds himself betrayed. His dad (Stephen Rea) is a drunk, his Ma (Aisling O'Sullivan) is suicidal. His best friend lets him down. The township and it's institutions aren't supportive. He eventually takes his revenge.The boy also has visions. We could say he's imaginative as children should be, but this boy is cheerfully violent as well. The Butcher Boy doesn't discuss cause and effect at all, but such is the power of the film, most viewers will wonder how such a thing could happen. Was Francie schizophrenic? Was he a psychopath. If he had had a stable loving family what might  have happened?Regardless, Eamonn Owens is just terrific as the cheerful, energetic, often very funny Francie Brady. This red headed bundle of uninhibited, unselfconscious energy has created a very memorable screen character indeed. Neil Jordan must have been tickled pink to have such a lead for his film.Leading English stage actress Fiona Shaw plays the prissy Mrs Nugent and Irish stalwart, Milo (the eyebrows) O'Shea plays a meddlesome priest. Stephen Rea fans won't find much to celebrate since Rea doesn't do much more than look drunk, sit, and kick in a television, but that's because The Butcher Boy quite rightly revolves around the wonderful, funny and bloody Eamonn Owens. See The Butcher Boy if you can. "},{"Title":"  You've   won,   Mrs. Nugent,   Joe   is  gone  forever  ","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" During the 1960's people were fearful of losing their world. What with the Cuban Missle Crises and the threat of Nuclear Winter, it's little wonder many hid in prayerful disillusion. For two young Irish boys, something loomed closer. Their lives encompassed their town, their family and their friendship. The first is Joe Purcell (Alan Boyle) a typical Irish boy out to enjoy his youth. The second is his best and closest friend named Francis Brady (Eamonn Owens) who becomes the unlikely hero in the movie, The Butcher Boy. To Joe, friendship is a temporary bond which enhances life with laughter, pranks and boyhood imagination. But to Francis Brady, friendship is permanent and indelible which nothing on the planet, including Atomic fire, can separate. Enter, the boy's Nemesis, the town gossip and constant irritation to their bond. Mrs. Nugent, (Fiona Shaw) sees the boys as lowly delinquents, petty trouble makers, vicious bullies and future criminals. During the escalating conflict, the audience watches as Francis loses many of the people he loves. Eventually, Mrs. Nugent causes him to lose his best friend. Vengefully, Francis marks her for ultimate punishment. Audiences must decided the boy's reason for his erratic behavior. Was it his drunken father's (Stephen Rea) physical abuse, his mother's suicidal tendencies, incarceration at reform school, becoming a victim of sexual abuse by Father Sullivan (Milo O'Shea), subsequent shock treatments, increasing mental delusions of space aliens or iconic religious figures. It's little wonder Francsis commits the ultimate act of revenge. This is an honest, straight forward movie, which depicts the inner workings of a fragile but psychotic boy in crises. Many people allow maturity to transform them into adults, but some refuse, paying the inevitable price for doing so. **** "},{"Title":"Original And Excellent Film...","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm glad I finally got around to checking out THE BUTCHER BOY - it's one of those sort of films that I've been keeping my eye on for a while, but never managed to pick it up. It turned out to be another strange, cult-like gem that was well worth waiting for.Francie is a troubled kid growing up in working class Ireland in a household where his mother is nuts and his father's a drunk. His one true friend, Joe is all Francie really has, until fate (and Francie's penchant for trouble-making) separate the boys. The rest of the film chronicles Francie's sometimes hilarious, sometimes touching, sometimes disturbing descent into his own madness...A strange films that will run you through the range of emotions - THE BUTCHER BOY is an original film that's hard to compare to any other. I guess I would say it somewhat reminded me of BAD BOY BUBBY (not in content - more in how it effected me) as like BBB - THE BUTCHER BOY has parts that are funny, witty, dark, sad, disturbing, heartfelt, and much more - all in one film, without feeling like it's being taken overboard. Another BIG plus - is that oftentimes I'm annoyed by child-leads in films - but Francie's character (and actually all the child actors for that matter) were spot-on in this film. My ONLY real gripe is that many of the characters have such a strong Irish accent that I couldn't tell what the hell they were saying half the time - but that's not their fault, I just found it a bit distracting. A truly strange treasure that I highly suggest checking out...9/10 "}{"Title":"hateful brat, tone mismatch, needs to be really dark","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Francie Brady is terribly wounded in the hospital. The movie flashes back. Francie and Joe play together. Francie's father (Stephen Rea) is a violent drunk. His mother is suicidal and is taken away. Mrs. Nugent (Fiona Shaw) doesn't like him and he doesn't like her. Francie's mom returns in a manic state. Uncle Alo (Ian Hart) comes by for a Christmas visit. After his mother's death, Francie starts bullying little Phillip Nugent and Mrs. Nugent.The kid is a hateful brat and I can't stand him. I can't stand most of the characters in this movie. I want to beat some sense into the boy or quite frankly anybody. The adults are mostly clueless idiots or drunks. I don't see any of this as charming but Neil Jordan seems intend on making this quirky. The music, the narration, and the whole tone is way too light. The tone needs to be darken to match the subject. I kept wondering if Neil Jordan thinks any of this is actually funny and why? This could have been great material for a super-dark super-violent drama. "},{"Title":"I expected better.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think the problem with the movie is that they tried to fit WAY too much into the 111 minutes.  I never read the book that it is based on, but I'm sure it's pretty good.  The premise, scenes, and narration of the movie were all good, but it's just a matter of fitting it all in.  In a novel (however long it is), I'm sure it flows much more easily...I'll have to read it. "},{"Title":"Dark whimsy and originality","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is as shocking and horrific as it was funny and touching. In a world of many heartless films that are shallow, annoying, and predictable or insensitive and too dramatic, this movie balanced all it's elements wonderfully. It's a tale of Francie Brady, a young Irish lad in the early Cold War, who at first has a lot of playful mischief and a deep heart for those closest to him. Yet as the film progresses so does the Francie's problems and so does the darkness within him as he tries to hold on and protect what little he was born with. His drunken father, who has a great knack with the trumpet, loves his family but his pain seems to override his tenderness. His mother is caught in the struggle of being a good mother and fighting her own inner demons, which ultimately consumes her. Francie invests much of his faith into his best friend Joe, a calmer but good-humored boy. But even the deepest of friendships suffer from the pressure of society, as Joe abandons Francie for a more conforming lifestyle. As all of Francie's allies leave him, insanity and anger take over his mind. He plunges into a life a wild and frantic searching and destruction. He takes out much of this anger on a critical and harsh neighbor, in a gruesome scene (which is funny considering how it differs from most of the Hollywood bull). Francie's escapades lead him to hospitalization. We then meet the adult Francie years later as he is released. We see the eager boy who grew into a lunatic and now has settled into a state of sad yet conventional behavior, but a good old friend (which was once a part of his insanity) comes back to comfort him. This film may be eerie and unconventional but that is what adds to it brilliance and fantastical charm. Viewer Note I'll never look at a pile of cabbage the same way again "},{"Title":"Very peculiar. Good. Odd.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps an Irish A Clockwork Orange, though not nearly as artfully done.I tended to disagree with the review by 1001 of B.C. Canada who saidMy biggest problem with the film is that it doesn't give a sufficient reason for Francie's (eventually) tragic actions. ... He's not surrounded by evil. There seems to be little cause for his growing extremismIt seems apparent to me that the child is downright psychotic. We can attribute this partially to his upbringing (his alcoholic father and mentally ill mother). Certainly, some people are simply mentally ill; psychotic not due to environment.This is not a film I would recommend lightly. If you did not like A Clockwork Orange, Brazil, THX 1138, Man Bites Dog, The Dark Backward or other such dark films, you will not like this film at all. "},{"Title":"What comedy??","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After reading the book, I was curious to see what Neil Jordan made of it. First the book tells a gripping tragedy, a boy is going down under thanks to the adults around him. Mrs Nugent comes first, then the priest in the reformatory. The red line in the story is the word PIGS, first used by Nugent, against the boy and his family. That is the onset of his brutal behavior. From now on he will be a PIG. Still, he trusts his friend, the priests in the reformatory and will only see his trust badly abused, which aggravates his behavior and makes him furiously rebellious. The mothers suicide and the death of his father are achieving him as a deeply disturbed, psychotic boy. Neil Jordan has turned a tragedy into comedy, without any regards for the psychological drama. Sure the book, because of his psychological depth, might be very difficult to turn into a script. I see that most of the reviewers didn't read the book and could not compare. If I give a 6 out of ten, is to the benefit of the actors, nor to Neil Jordan's film. Jordan has disappointed me. "},{"Title":"The Butcher Boy","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From director Neil Jordan (The Crying Game, Interview with the Vampire The Vampire Chronicles, Michael Collins, The Brave One), this Irish film used to be listed in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I was certainly hoping it deserved that placement. Basically set in Ireland in the early 1960s, in the small town of Clones, twelve year old Francie Brady (Eamonn Owens) is an imaginative boy who loves comic books, movies and television, and these fuel his interest in aliens, communism and the Atomic Age. Francie's mother Annie aka Ma (Aisling O'Sullivan) is a manic depressive, and suffering a nervous breakdown commits suicide, Francie is left in the care of his emotionally distant and ill-tempered alcoholic father Benny aka Da (Stephen Rea), and to get away Francie spends most of his time with his best friend Joe Purcell (Alan Boyle). More despair follows when Joe is sent to boarding school, and then he starts having conflicts with the neighbours, another boy, Phillip Nugent (Andrew Fullerton) and his nasty mother Mrs. Nugent (Harry Potter's Fiona Shaw), this friction was spawned from some form of paranoia. He finds work in the local abattoir which helps him earn some needed money, but then his father dies after drinking himself to death, the continuing argument goes to the point when Francie's condition has worsened with more bizarre behaviour, and he goes too far and murders Mrs. Nugent, who he blamed for all things going wrong. Francie is sent by the authorities to an asylum to attempt to help him recover and return to reality, but this is difficult as he cannot help but have fantasies and conversations with the spirit of a foul-mouthed Virgin Mary (singer Sinéad O'Connor), he is molested by priest Father Sullivan (Milo O'Shea), and the town will probably never forgive him following his shocking brutality. Also starring Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone's Ian Hart as Uncle Alo, Father Ted's Ardal O'Hanlon as Mr. Purcell, Alan Boyle as Joe Purcell, Niall Buggy as Father Dom, Brendan Gleeson as Father Bubbles and Never Mind the Buzzcocks's Sean Hughes as Psychiatrist #1. As the young boy near adolescence Owens gives a brilliant performance, and the performances of Rea and O'Connor add to it also, this is film full of both darkness and surrealism as the first mischievous child working in a slaughterhouse has his world slowly crumbling around him and his mental state deteriorates, but there are moments to make you laugh too, I admit some bits were slow, but overall I found it a most interesting black comedy drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Awkwardly distinctive - or vice versa","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Talented filmmaker Neil Jordan provides - with the help of even talented Irish actors - a peculiar overview of life in a small Irish town in the 1960ies, long before Ireland began to enjoy its economic success and openness to the rest of the world, even to rest of Europe. Through the eyes of an uncertain yet sensual boy Francie (splendidly performed by Eamonn Owens, definitely in my Top10 list of child actors), the viewers get a picture of issues and phenomena in a closed and conservative, rather poor society, with religion prevailing in virtually all layers of everyday life. Advancing is hard, there are different fears and setbacks, and all this is easily combined with growing pains - resulting with the fate we see by the example of Francis. True, there are bright moments and phenomena, but there is often laugh through tears, well, you can seldom laugh, just giggle at best. Nevertheless, the approach is nuanced, and character actors like Stephen Rea or Fiona Shaw provide additional, valuable angles.All in all, The Butcher Boy is another coming off by Neil Jordan. His admirers will not get disappointed. Probably others, too, unless they have black-and-white world view or are very religious. And it is hardly an educational family film... "},{"Title":"new  Oskar  Matzerath","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" great performance. smart script. wise manner to direct. and an extraordinary Eamonn Owens. Irish poor family is subject of few interesting films. so, The Butcher Boy is not original. only different because it explores childhood in a fascinating, realistic manner. lead character is a victim. but one who makes his personal definitions about life and world. for many people, imagination is an escape/refuge. for young Francie, it is a gun who transforms him in version of legendary Oskar Matzerath. an Oskar who has as drum only his life. his glasses is more fragile than a window. his revolt seems be crumbs from knights stories. his sensitivity is touching. a man under society pressure. or, maybe, only a parable about existence and fight against its traps. "},{"Title":"Mostly has its originality going for it.","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie is basically about growing up under tough circumstance, which is not without its emotional scars and eventually leads up to only more tragedy. It makes the movie sound like such a downer but the movie actually has a sort of light and pleasant atmosphere to it, that is hard to describe or compare to anything else but bottom-line is that it works out well and makes the movie a still mostly pleasant one.Not that the movie is always easy to watch though. It's still being a bit of a difficult movie to follow at times but it never goes overboard with anything. The movie just takes a too light and simplistic approach for that, which is all something positive in this case.I didn't really expected this but it really is a movie that is all about its young characters. All of the adults are truly being secondary characters in this and I would say that Eamonn Owens is on the screen for about 95% of the time, if not an 100% but just don't pin me on that. And I quite like movies that are entirely being told from the viewpoint of a young kid. I don't know, it's always easy to somewhat identify with I guess, since everybody used to be a young kid at one point.You also could say that it's a movie about the loss of innocence. Due to circumstance the young characters in this movie have to mature very fast, while they still have the needs and minds of a young child in them. This leads to some pretty surprising developments at times. Thing that this movie mostly has going for it is its originality. It's being original with its story but even more so with its approach. It also was the right approach to take in my opinion, since this movie would had been an incredible dry and heavy one had it been done as a completely serious drama.Definitely watchable but I should still say that this movie most definitely won't be everybody's cup of tea.7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"disturbed childhood","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Neil Jordan directed one of the most twisted -- and cleverest -- movies in The Butcher Boy. It focuses on a disturbed boy (Eamonn Owens) in an Irish village in the early '60s. A combination of his broken home and the threat of nuclear war push the little guy into complete insanity. Seriously, you aren't prepared for some of what this tyke does! Of course, the audience understands that the kid is merely a product of his environment, and so his actions -- no matter how jaw-dropping -- aren't really his fault. But the movie never moralizes. Jordan lets the movie be all that it can be, and the result is amazing. Watching the movie, I got the feeling that they had a lot of fun making it, with the understanding that it's got a pretty serious subject matter.Anyway, definitely worth your time. Also starring Stephen Rea, Fiona Shaw (Petunia Dursley in the Harry Potter movies), Aisling O'Sullivan, Seán McGinley, Ian Hart (Prof. Quirrell in Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone), Brendan Gleeson (Mad-eye Moody in the Harry Potter movies), Milo O'Shea (Friar Laurence in Franco Zefferelli's Romeo and Juliet), and Sinéad O'Connor. "}{"Title":"Interesting twist on those charmin' ol' Irish stereotypes...","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved two aspects of this film. One was the incredible performance of Eamonn Owens as the butcher boy. He is absolutely real and believable as the disturbed protagonist in the parts that demanded it.The other aspect is the send up of all those happy Irish films - from The Quiet Man to The Commitments to Waking Ned Devine. The ironic combination of these myths with gritty and nasty reality produces a surreal, disturbing yet funny black comedy.Unfortunately, the allegory and the reality don't mix as well as it might have. I kept on thinking that in real life, the butcher boy would have had the s***e beat out of him - many times over (not that it would have mattered). And even though I knew that he was not meant to be absolutely real - (somewhat like the boy in The Tin Drum) this felt really forced since it detracted from the realistic aspects of the film where it really excelled.However, overall, an excellent and different film which is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"If Angelas Ashes and Pink Floyd The Wall had a love child it's name would have to be...","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Why, Francie Brady, of course. WOW...Watched this for the first time a few weeks ago after seeing it sitting on video stores shelves for years and years now and haven't stopped recommending it since. Great performances from not just the outstanding cast but everyone involved in this, from costume design to location scouts. Unfortunately for them, the show is absolutely stolen by Eamonn Owens as the larger than life Francie Brady. Not for everyone but for those with a taste for the different this film was made for you. A great mix of pitch black humor, heartfelt drama and the macabre this film stands beyond simple A, B or C classification. It is neither comedy, drama or horror but something created from a mix of the three. Can't believe I walked past this so many times without renting it. Think Angelas Ashes meets Pink Floyd The Wall or and you've hit the tip of the iceberg on this excellent film. The thick Irish accents can be a bit tough to understand in a few places but most of it is easy enough to decipher. If you liked The Wicker Man, Clockwork Orange and King of the Hill (the movie, not the Mike Judge TV show, although that is quite good in it's own right too but I digress....)I can guarantee this will be well worth your two hours. Again, not for everyone but for those who like their comedy or drama with a deep dark twist..it's the goods. Am buying the VHS version as that's all that is available and will wait patiently for a DVD release of this. On my Top 10 films of all time list. "},{"Title":"Darkly brilliant","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This came on Hallmark Asia one evening and I just kept it on, not able to take my eyes off from the scene of Francie lying in the hospital all bandaged up to the end of the movie.  It was funny and tragic. Violent, but enlightening.  Your heart aches with each betrayal Francie faces that puts him deeper into his mental illness.  It's an amazing movie and I am glad to have caught it. 4 out of 4. "},{"Title":"GREAT FILM!!! Schizophrenia from the inside.","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is not for muddle-headed sheep who prefer Hollywood schlock; The Butcher Boy is the epitome of the human condition; it is Art in its highest form. However, like the human condition, it's not pretty. This film delves into the darkest recesses of a truly sick mind. We see and hear the alternative realities of young Francis Brady's inner voices, and from this journey, we can gain a greater understanding of schizophrenia. This film reminds me of The Eden Express by Mark Vonnegut, except that where Mr. Vonnegut's (Kurt's son) book causes feelings of sympathy, The Butcher Boy brings only horror. "},{"Title":"Eamonn Owens is incredible","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All I can say is that this movie is unbelievable, Neil Jordan has done it again.  The performance by Eamonn Owens is spectacular and I wish he would appear in more films.  On the basis of the movie, I have to say I love how Mr. Jordan and Mr. McCabe adapted it for the screen.  I thought it was a great dark comedy, about a boy whose reality was his imagination and his imagination was his reality.  The character of Francie, unable to deal with his abusive father (Stephen Rea, who I absolutely love) and his suicidal mother retreated into his own personal world of comic books, which can be seen through the specific type of dialogue, and lost all of his grips on reality.  I just have to say Neil Jordan is my hero!!!!  "},{"Title":"A brilliant, harrowing quasi coming of age tale about mental illness","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film could be called a coming of age tale, but that would be sorely misunderstanding this film. This is a film about human frailty, mental illness, faith, and the working class. It is about time a film is made that doesn't produce the lower working class as ethnicities. Also one of the first films where someone with mental illness has agency, albeit dangerous agency. A good film to chew on and an exciting director to watch. I cried for thrity minutes after the end of the  "},{"Title":"Superb Performances","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Eamon Owens performance is superb. The story is perfectly narrated from a kid interiors', from the wild mind of a kid whose acts evolve through out the film. Neil Jordan directing is straight forward but with a careful planing of details in order the viewer can jugde the act of the boy and have a clean and useful retrospective. I would have expected a more well utilization of the so versatile actor Stephen Rea. Fiona Shaw perfectly plays her character (Mrs. Nugent) in a effortlesly and incredible way.  "},{"Title":"great movie, great acting","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  before i rented this i was under the impression that it was about some crazy little boy that went around violently killing people. i like bloody horror movies and had been mislead to believe that this was one. i had seen it on the shelves in video stores for a long time and always wanted to rent it but never really got around to it. i finally did last weekend and i really enjoyed it. at first my friend and i were disappointed because we thought the main character, Francie, would kill a lot, so every time someone even mildly p***ed him off we would yell kill him Francie! but he didn't and at first we were angry, not because the movie wasn't good, but because we had been mislead. after seeing the movie the first time i watched it again the next day so i could really appreciate it. i really like this movie and i think Eamon Owens did a really great job playing Francie. throughout the whole movie i just really liked Francie, even though he was crazy and doing bad things. i know it sounds kind of weird but i just really loved the way he talked. not his accent, or the things he said, but the way he said things. it made me look up Eamon Owens on this site and when i saw that this had been his first role i was even more impressed with him. i'm definately going to check out his other movies. i want to buy this movie because i really really like it, not just for the incredible acting by Eamon, but also because it's just a great movie. "},{"Title":"A child that has been through so much...","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A man who has just been released by the mental institution looks back at his not-so-happy childhood. Francey Brady (Eamonn Owens) comes from a dysfunctional-family. As an only child, he has a an alcoholic father (Stephen Rea) who slaps and quarrels with his wife sometimes, a mentally unstable and suicidal mother (Aisling O'Sullivan), his best and only friend Joe Purcell (Alan Boyle) lets him down, Francey has been sent to a detention home and as well as a mental asylum, after his father dies of consumption and he becomes an orphan.Stealing Mrs. Nugent's (Fiona Shaw) apples was probably the start of all the trouble, the much older Francey admits it as he recalls his life as a teenager. He blames Mrs. Nugent, a totally hostile, sarcastic, unforgiving, unsympathetic woman for everything bad that has happened to him.Francey's imagination tragically turns into paranoia and self-deception, and he begins to have visions of the Virgin Mary. These are all parts of his mental illness. Francey appears to be a cheerful, witty kid, but inside, his depressing, psychologically weary life is destroying him. Eventually, he can't take it any more. He believes that Mrs. Nugent is what makes his life miserable and must be terminated. Think about it, she is so hateful and she always calls Francey a pig. Francey happened to have worked for a butcher and seen how he kills pigs. So...you call me a pig, Mrs. Nugent? Then I'll kill you like killing a pig! So Francey did.Like the leading role, this film is incredibly imaginative and I can't help loving it. Neil Jordan directed this movie with vivid, beautiful imagination. I am amazed by how this film portrays such dark, sad and even terrifying events in such light and funny ways. Eamonn Owens' powerful, fantastic performance makes this movie a definitely must see. I look forward to seeing more good works from this promising young actor. Finally, if you long to see something different, watch The Butcher Boy.      "},{"Title":"Fantastic stuff","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is phenomenal.  I don't know how people can say that they don't understand how this kid could go this way and descend into madness as he did.  He has a father who loves him, but who doesn't seem to give him much guidance and is passed out drunk most of the time.  His mother is virtually catatonic and a nervous wreck.  I think any kid could lose it without a helping hand during his adolescent years with that sort of parental supervision.  In any case, the actor who plays Francie, Eamonn Harris is top shelf.  This kid is just phenomenal.  He brings all the enthusiasm and joie de vivre, but obviously there are some crazy demons lurking inside him as well.  The narration and the motif of the film, the pig are very well communicated.  The narration, by Stephen Rea is so dry and drole.  It was hysterical.  You found yourself rooting for the kid even as you wanted to cover your eyes and even as you were laughing at the same time.  You could see what was coming but yet it was funny and sad.  Very audacious film.  I enjoyed The Crying Game but this is apples and oranges....this film is much better... "}{"Title":"The Incredible Eamonn Owens..","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of my favourites of all time, possibly because I love listening to (and imitating) Irish accents, but also because I thought Eamonn Owens as Francie Brady was fantastic.  True, the movie has a rather dark and sadistic theme to it but plenty of laughs as well and I thought the combination of these worked well. It will not appeal to all but I still find my self wandering around the house saying The incredible Francie Brady ladies and gentlemen, with my best Irish accent, 3 months after I watched the film for the 2nd time.  "},{"Title":"I'm scared","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Eammon Owens is manic and inspired, hilarious and nearly forgivable as the psychotic Francie.  The movie is darkly hilarious (with the exception of the very annoying voice overs).  Unsettling and disturbing with many strengths and many weaknesses.  The scenes of Virgin Mary are unintentionally hilarious- the campy scenes of Francie's visions of Mary played by Sinead O'Conner (which look really cheesey) contradict the raw power of a portrait of an insane child.  Just when we thought there was a realistic movie about the origins of prepubescent violence, Neil Jordan throws us annoying voice overs, a stiff and dull performance by Stephen Rea, and unbelievable visions of Mary.  What really comes out on top and redeems the whole film (flaws and all) is Eammon Owens as the charming and nuts Francie- here's hoping Owens is around for some time. "},{"Title":"Fantastic and wonderfully strange, almost worthy of naked Lunch.","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although disturbing this is the best film i have seen in a while. Neil Jordan has out done himself, i liked this better than crying game, which had an interesting directing to it. Not sure if this would be considered a Black comedy. "},{"Title":"Brazenly original","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The genius of Neil Jordan's brazenly original work is that he details the exhilaration of psychosis.  Jordan's adolescent lead captures the joy of childhood through the prism of a fractured lens.  In Jordan's boldest move, he forces us to root for the abused boy even as the kid grows increasingly unhinged.  While the cast is good, young Eamonn Owens is electrifying.  "},{"Title":"Imaginative, touching","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe that some people don't like or understand this film. I went and saw it because I love Neil Jordan films and this is his best ever (I saw it three times before I made that decision). I loved the look and structure of the film. The main character, Francie, was very likeable. He does some horrible things but he never lost my sympathy in any part of the film. The screenplay and the delusion sequences were amazing. The narration is very humorous and it's obvious that Jordan understood and was very familiar with the setting. I found watching this film to be a mind-blowing experience, dramatic, humourous, horrifying and very touching too. It has definitely made my top-ten list.  "},{"Title":"whimsical psychosis??","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I never thought psychosis could be whimsical and I still don't, but Francie Brady's descent into his own personal hell makes it seem so at times, albeit from the outsider's view. After all, some psychotic killers (say, Ted Bundy) had relatively normal lives. In that light, this film is doubly frightening because I have a disturbing suspicion that it's true. In the end, the movie made me wonder what ever happened to that freckled red-head who lived down my block.  "},{"Title":"This is not a Hollywood movie","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I felt that the movie was very carefully crafted, with a difficult theme but direct. The protagonist, the butcher boy was excellent in his performance and made it believable. You can tell this is not a Hollywood movie, because it is real and does not sweeten anything, the director was not worried about good taste but to tell a truthful story, and I loved it! "},{"Title":"An unexpected masterpiece","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure how or why or where I heard of this film, and even less sure what prompted me to buy it. I remember being slightly intrigued by the prospect of a (very) dark comedy about a young boy's dramatic life and loss of innocence, but it still stayed on my to-watch-list for a very long time. The simple fact is that this film seems to be largely forgotten and ignored, which, as I discovered when I finally watched it, is a real shame. It's the story of Francie, a boy with a depressed mother and alcoholic father, who escapes to fantasy worlds to deal with the real one. One by one the things that are keeping him somewhat sane are taken from him and as they are, he lashes out ever more drastically and violently. All this is set to the background of the Cuban missile crisis, which also enters the story in the last act. What sets the film apart from other such efforts are two things amazing actors, especially newcomer Eamonn Owens, who plays Francie, that manage to make the story come alive, and a tenderness in the telling of the horrific tale that makes it both bearable to watch and yet drives home the horrible situation even more. This film is not for everyone and there are also many flaws, but it managed to draw me in and fascinate me as few films have done before. If you can manage to get your hands on it, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"comment on the butcher boy from some idiotic American","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" to whoever wrote the comment about the accents and it being glad the film wasn't set in the USA. your comments were nice but displayed appalling ignorance. the film is based on a book by pat McCabe set up in north west Ireland which is the north west of Ireland so you'll excuse the actors for having Irish accents. the book is much darker and is a kin d of comment on the darker aspects of Irish society back in the 19860s. READ THE BOOK. also why does every film have to be set in the USA to be good? the film is wonderful and the whole surreal and narrator thing is the whole point. the narrator is Francie grown up. please do some more research and come back and post comments then. the ignorance is embarrassing and also makes Americans look really stupid although they are not "},{"Title":"1997 Irish version of 1990's Reflective Skin","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I would have thought this movie to be unique if I had not seen Reflective Skin earlier. THis is a walk inside an insane Irish kid's mind who started off mildly bent and then was tortured into insanity by his wretched surroundings. Reflective Skin, with acting that is not as sharp but a far superior script is the better movie on this topic.If you are sick and tired of all the beige Irish films that suburban sheeple with 1/8th Irish in them watch to feel more Irish watch this flick- it is the direct opposite of the tepid Irish comedy that has been shoved down our throats ever since The Commitments was a hit.This movie focuses on a red headed Irish lad and his exploits in a small Irish town as his small world slowly falls apart. I found the script to be daft but the acting brilliant.The boy get's the name Butcher Boy because he works at a butcher's on occasion- not because of any horror element. "}{"Title":"Superb and troubling film - so where's the DVD?","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a terrific film from Neil Jordan paving the way for some of his later, more famous works - but to my mind, this is his best film. Once you get past the quirk of casting Sinead O'Connor as Our Lady (a performance of great respect and ability, it turns out...) and get into the film, it's clear from an early stage that you are watching something pretty special. The acting is first rate throughout. The plaudits awarded to Eamonn Owens as Francie Brady are entirely deserved - it is a REMARKABLE performance, devoid of any guile or staginess, full of the intensity and sadness of childhood. He is supported by acting greats Stephen Rea and Fiona Shaw as his father, and nemesis respectively, and there isn't a bum note in the whole thing. It is an imaginative and almost unbearably sad film (and as only sad films can be it is also remarkably funny) that deserves to enjoy huge success and CERTAINLY deserves a DVD release, which at time of writing, was already long overdue. "},{"Title":"Brady's Wild Ride-unstable and out of control","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Know anything about mental illness? Related to someone with Unipolar BP or is schizo-affective? Brady speaks to Mary, is unambiguous in sexuality, rides horrendous stress at home and paranoidly blames his troubles on a neighborhood lady. In all his madness and tragedy he still is as entertaining as the moment you meet him. As always the book is a better read but cannot be translated straight onto film. See and read both. A fast ride through childhood hell with a jolly oblivious tour guide. As Brady and his life unwinds you'll miss subtle clues to what's going on and you'll watch again just to catch it all and to take in his manic energy. "},{"Title":"Hard going, but at the same time a whimsical dark comedy.","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In an Irish town in the mid 60s we follow the life of a ruthless young boy Francie, who has an unstable family and bleak life. He receives beatings from his alcoholic father who never seems to be sober and his mother is always on the brink of suicide. What keeps him going is his relationship with his best friend Joe and enjoying their childhood, but soon enough all that changes when he loses everyone close to him and that's the pot-boiler for Francie. As now his life has taken a sudden change and the effects have caused a dramatic turn for the worst.I really have to take my hat off to this stark Irish drama, which is based on the novel by Pat McCabe. Compelling black comedy (of the blackest kind) that has a real bitterness but manages to cross the line of fantasy as well. But that doesn't destroy the horrific reality of the problems the kid faces, as we go through the ups and downs of this young boy's life. The surreal moments of hallucination are there more for the wicked humour and to show the boy's wild sense of illusion. It wasn't what I expected it to be, but that's not taking anything away from it. Bubbling with zest and imagination, but also not forgetting the shocking and moving moments that really do capture the mind. It's just pretty hard to categorise, because it throws almost everything into the dark story. What hits you in the face is that of the thick and blunt sense of humour, which lashes out at the viewer, and it's sometimes quite funny in a roughly morbid sense. The blend of light-hearted moments does give this film more heart and an emotional edge, but that doesn't take away from the brutal moments in the flick. The violence is in your face and towards the end it takes a totally vicious turn.Eamonn Owens is fantastic as the foul-mouthed brat Francie who's always up to mischief. We see it all from this three-dimensional character's point of view. His knockout performance is the film, by giving a disturbing portrayal of an eccentric character that uses a cheerful mode to cover up his messy upbringing, where he picks up after his parents. When he becomes alienated you really do feel sorry for this character even though he is violent and crude beyond belief. The rest of the supporting cast with likes of Stephen Rae are more than adequate and work off each other impeccably well, but it's Owens show. The narration throughout the film, which is done by the older character of Francie, is rather witty and cynical, with it sometimes interacting with the younger character. The dialog coming out of everyone's mouths is very much bright and snappy with their heavy accents, but Francie attitude took the cake. The director Neil Jordan also gets a node in my books for creating such a profound texture with its many unpredictable paths and capturing the bleak times of a working class family struggling to cope. Simply it's beautifully illustrated with shades of beauty and horror gelling perfectly.The Butcher Boy knows how to shake you about with the trouble that's lurking underneath this cheerful lad, just waiting to explode. It's amusing, but at the same time sickening in the realism. A very odd but stinging flick that's very impressive! "},{"Title":"Dark and Twisted in a good way.","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Butcher Boy is one of those movies that disturbs you while making laugh. It's got the Charm of a Disney film, especially the loveable acting of Eamon Owens as the cute and freakin' disturbed Francie Brady.  While on the other hand, you get a shock equal to Pictures of Medical Anomalies.  A very good movie, if Dark is a word that comes to mind when you're looking for a movie. "},{"Title":"Difficult but funny at the same time","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A young Irish boy begins to create his own reality to escape the realities of his life whit his mother and his alcoholic father.  When his mother dies he retreats further into this world with the resulting actions taking him further into his own reality where people are aliens and he is able to do whatever he wants.  Visits to hospital and secure schools do nothing to help and Francie becomes more and more erratic &#150; forever driven by his voice inside his head.I had no idea what this was about when I sat down to watch it and this made it slightly more difficult to watch.  The plot is entirely of Francie's journey in life as told by himself as a man.  We get to see his world slowly fall in on itself and his fantasy become stronger to protect him from reality.  This in itself sounds pretty bleak but it is delivered with a great dark sense of humour that it's actually quite funny at times.  The scene where his inner voice asks him what pigs do, driving him to take a dump in the middle of the dreaded Mrs Nugent's floor is hilarious but oddly disturbing.The journey is perfectly paced and it seemed like Francie's descent was well set up and never moved too quickly so as to be totally OTT.  The humour is the film's saviour as without it the subject would simply have been too dark to be enjoyable.The heart of the film is a great performance from new boy Owens.  He is so convincing that it is difficult not to accept him.  He carries a sense of humour with him that allows him to do what he does with a smile and a song but when the damaging moments come that force him into himself he deals with them well too.  Stephen Rea is OK as his father but is much better as the voice in Francie's head.  The rest of the cast have plenty of good child actors but also a surprising cast in minor roles.  Ardal O'Hanlon and Sean Hughes are both strange uses of comedians and, to annoy the catholic church, Sinéad O'Connor appears as the blessed mother!The film is difficult to watch at times because the line between reality and Francie's madness to hard to always judge.  However it manages to have a great dark humour mixed with a convivncing depiction of one boy's journey into himself.  It's like a cross between The Naked Lunch and Father Ted!  Overall it's worth a look but it is maybe too difficult to totally enjoy.  Worth watching for Owens alone. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OOOOOOOOh, what a brilliant film. Neil Jordan truly does give the Irish a good name. This film is just superb. Another Irish lad you may want to look out for is Titus Richard, I saw the boys film at a festival and it was fantastic. A young lad with a good eye and a good sense of story. His film was titled 'Premorbid'. Keep an eye out for it and other films to come by the young (19 yrs. old) laddy.  "},{"Title":"Makes you think....","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was made in my home town, and there was considerable interest provoked in both the book (which, despite the fact that Patrick McCabe, the author who wrote the book the film is based on, comes from Clones, where the majority of the movie was filmed) and the film, and therefore there were packed audiences for the first few months.  And while watching it in the cinema, I noticed that it was getting lots of laughs at the 'comic' moments. On my way home, I thought,'hang on, that wasn't funny', so decided to re-read the book, and found the film to be an excellent adaptation.  The book is blackly comic, yet provokes thought simultaneously.  Most people I have talked to who have seen this film find it too black, yet I think that it is the humour juxtaposed with the unfolding tragedy that makes the film linger in the memory. It was superbly acted, and if justice ran true, Eamon Owens would be a star in the making.  Brendan Gleeson deserves this as well.And one last point - the accents!!  The accents are not those of Clones, yet are proper Irish accents.  Maybe some people can only understand the stereotypical 'Oirish' accent as perpetrated by American actors, but regional accents do exist, so get over yourselves!!  All over the world cinema attendees are expected to be able to understand all American accents, it doesn't matter how thick they are.  If we can expect it, why can't you? If the part calls for someone with a regional accent, let it be played in that accent. Just venting a little spleen!! "},{"Title":"Watch a boy go insane","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found Butcher Boy at a mom & pop video store, had never heard of it before, but it is by Neil Jordan, the director of The Crying Game. Found it hilarious that Sinead O'Connor was playing the Virgin Mary in the hallucinations of Francie Brady, the young Irish rogue who plays the lead role, especially after she must be hated by many Roman Catholics -- so I rented it. It's a great movie! You find yourself sympathizing with a boy who likely has insanity running in his family -- as his mother is mad (and his father is the town drunk). The movie takes place during the communist scare and cheesy sci-fi movie late 1950s, and Francie blends the two into his imaginary world. A wonderfully made film with a humorous edge that works as Francie gets madder and madder, and to himself, (as he narrates) goes about as if he is the only sane person in town. The only shortcoming is that it takes a while to understand the thick Irish accents of the characters. I put this up there with City of Lost Children and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas as my favorites. "},{"Title":"A movie with many parallels to Heavenly Creatures","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Butcher Boy is a fascinating movie about a young boy whose fantasies and ideas bring him closer and closer to insanity. The director, Neil Jordan, has made a fascinating and, at times, a rather strange and bizarre film that have some parallels to Peter Jackson's Heavenly Creatures. Both films deal with young people who live in a fantasy world and who get closer and closer to insanity. There are more parallels, but if I mention those here it will destroy the experience for those of you who haven't seen the movies.According to me, Heavenly Creatures (one of my fav movies) is far superior to The Butcher Boy even if the latter *is* a good movie. However, not even Kate Winslet (who stars in HC) can top Eamonn Owens's performance as Francie. Owens is brilliant and I am very impressed by him. Even if you watch this film and don't appreciate it, I'm convinced that you will appreciate Eamonn Owens's believable portrait of the butcher boy. Owens alone makes this a movie worth renting. "},{"Title":"Wildly disturbing and amusing...","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie twice so far on video and it was worth it both times.  I found Francie Brady's story to be both wildly disturbing and wildly amusing.  During the whole time that I was laughing, I thought to myself This isn't right!  I shouldn't laugh at this!  But I did.  I felt for the boy and really thought that it was a shame that he was so emotionally and mentally disturbed and that no one seemed to be able to do anything about it.  While I didn't think that Mrs. Nugent deserved WHAT she got in the end, I did think that she played a primary role in Francie's fall into madness.  I certainly don't think that she should have sent two grown men to beat up a little boy.  "}{"Title":"It'll be a bitter day for this town if the world comes to an end!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this film deeply. It's just about as funny as it can be, while remaining as tragic as any film I've seen. Welcome to the life of a young boy as those he loves and respects most take everything he values from him. Some people don't seem to get that process, but that's no big deal, it's their loss. The moment Stephen Rea (unfairly criticised in certain other posts here, i thought) tries to reach out to his son in the reform school only to discover he's too weak and his neglect has gone on too long is one of the most heartbreaking moments i've ever encountered in cinema.There's nothing wrong with this film. That's an incredible statement, if you actually sit and think about it. But i stand over it. "},{"Title":"The Most Complex and Well Done Film I've Seen","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i cannot categorise this film.there is comedy , drama  ,deep dark horrors of the mind and childlike innocense and that is but half of it all. it is the life of a boy affected by his environment ,family home, trying to enjoy boyhood innocense while struggling with his mind's demons as i see it. eammon owens, stephen rea fit together magically in the boy's film debut as though they 'd been close all their lives.' many things may be misunderstood of this film such as boyhood scenes with his best friend ( the only person in the world the lead character seems to be able to anchor to emotionally) as they elaborate in acting, the innocense and mischievousness( no idea how thats spelt), that is  expected of the dream childhood. as well as sinead oconnor being commented on as playing the part of Our Lady. for me , it is clear, she is but portraying a figment of the lead character's  imagination , whose interest in her seemed to manifest in the pictures and statues of our lady, hence sinead's lack of facial movements and the odd things she says.  many words and the irish accent may be lost at times on some americans but the flow of the film is uneffected by a few words lost here and there  they have told me. The brilliance of this film , actually endears you to a bully of a boy who commits the ultimate reprehensible act, because it follows his life and history of mental illness that lurks beneath the sweet faced , clever charmer.i must have seen this film 30 times i kid you not.  "},{"Title":"Gobsmacked!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Francie Brady has become a Cult figure in his own lifetime! The 'true to life' scenes of lower working class Irish life are only equalled by the 'tragi-comic' views of Francie's life. His frequent 'conversations' with Mary complete what must become The Cult Film of the 90's. It is a film you will either 'love' or 'hate'... Did you like the book Angela's Ashes? You may see shades of Francie in there too! Not seen it? Try it! Within 15 minutes you'll know whether it's for you. (Darth)   "},{"Title":"Okay film, However...","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie was just okay...however I was a little disturbed about another comment made.  The film, is set, and filmed in Ireland...not Scotland dummy. Do a little research so you don't sound stupid...too late.  And you use the word ledgible?  I HEAR movies not read them, and it is not even spelled correctly (legible). The Irish may have a heavy accent but, at least they can use the English language correctly, unlike you. A lot of the actors, were great in other movies I have seen, but were fairly bland here. This film is not his greatest, but then again, its not even close to the worst film I have ever seen.  I wouldn't expect a person who has time to watch marathons of movies to understand, nor would I expect a Scorsese fan to get it. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Crafted Analogy","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a wonderfully produced black comedy.  But that is only the surface level!  Look below and you will find a brilliantly crafted analogy of America's growing psychosis over Communism.  Consider the changing alliances, the Cuban missile crisis, the reference to pigs, and JFK - just to name a few.  Young Francie MUST destroy the threatening Mrs. Nugent.  A most righteous endeavor if ever the world has had one! "},{"Title":"Another oddity from a modern fairy-story teller.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the bleakest and darkest films I have seen yet. The scary thing is however, that it doesn't look like it. The Butcher Boy is like a rich fantasy, full of wonderful shots - the two young boys standing on either side of the cliffs, with the river in the background. It is also very reminiscent of that other 'young killers' flick, 'Heavenly Creatures'.With a firm grip on this production, Jordan has created in Francie Brady, a character every bit as believable and convincing as he was in the book. Stephen Rea, a Jordan regular, plays the invisible narrator. Sinead O'Connor even turns up as a cursing Mother Mary. The theme of unexplained violence and hatred is constantly brewing, witness the countless references to 'the Communists' and 'the bomb'. The startling thing that Jordan achieves, is to instill the character of Francie, with some kind of humanity, however warped.This is a film-maker who is confident of his abilities, and The Butcher Boy, doesn't damage his reputation any. It is a disturbing, but somewhat rewarding oddity, that should be viewed by as wide an audience as possible. Great stuff!!!  "},{"Title":"Some little boys are hell-bent.","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Intended or not this little drama passes for dark comedy. Some scenes are very disturbing and savage. I don't recommend for very young children. A troubled Irish lad(Eamonn Owens)develops a cruel streak that manifests itself in increasingly morbid fashion. Also in the cast areAllan Boyle, Peter Gowen and Sinead O'Connor plays the Virgin Mary. Lord have mercy! "},{"Title":"Wonderful acting, disappointing movie","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First, Eamon Owens is absolutely incredible playing a child slipping into insanity. Francie's insanity seemed fluid and real, and Owens' acting was, IMO, the best part of the movie. Unfortunately, it was also the only good part about this movie.Here's the plot. Basically, you have a kid, Francie, who's father is a drunk and whose mother is depressed. He hangs around with his friend Joe doing things that little kids do, including bullying another kid Plillip. Things start to happen in Francie's life and child mischief turns darker and darker. Okay, fine, great idea, but you also get a sense that the kid is evil to begin with. He seems to be conscious of what he's doing. A tagline for this movie was innocence undone, but I don't think Francie was that innocent at all. The movie never made a connection between what happened to his parents and Francie's behavior. One could argue that the connection's obvious, but I think that's an insult to anyone coming from a less than a Leave it to Beaver-like family. His father loved him despite, his mother loved him despite, and he was incorrigible, despite.I also don't think this deserves a black comedy label. For me, a black comedy is not just laughing at something unplesant, but laughing directly at that unpleasant action. Francie does some horrible stuff, but says something funny. That's not black comedy. That's throwing a joke into an unplesant scene. If you want black comedy, few movies are better than Man Bites DogUnfortunately, this movie followed a formula that got repetitive kid does something bad. Kid says something funny. Something bad happens. optional Kodak moment where kid drops down another level. Wash, rinse, repeat.6/10 -- original, yes, but in this case, no points for originality.  "},{"Title":"Angela's Ashes meets Naked Lunch...","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film left me a great deal disappointed. With a little more substance to the story line and a great deal of better editing it could have transcended being just another independent art film about insanity into being a great piece on the social conditions of mental illness.  "},{"Title":"A Butcher Orange","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     How many similarities are there between this film and 'A Clockwork Orange'. Don't get me wrong, I thought it was a goode film, but I can't say that the screenwriter was the first to think of some of these symbols and themes, and the plot.What are the similarities? A youth who indulges in violent acts, which are portrayed as dark comedy or at least unconventionally. This young offender runs into trouble, and is sent away to be punished/cured for his past. In this place he becomes more knowledgable on religion. He comes out, thought to be cured, but he is rejected, and cannot return to his old way of life. Devastated by what has happened to him, he takes drastic measures to change his situation. And, finally, in the end he grows up (only in the novel of 'Orange').   Quite a few similarities, but, I suppose, the plots have very different parts to them as well, and its worth seeing both, as they are both goode. Still, if you liked one of these, I can't see how you wouldn't like the other to some extent.  "}{"Title":"Good film, incomprehensible dialog.","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I tried to watch this movie on video, and could understand only about half of the dialog, which for the most part is spoken at a fast pace in thick Irish accents.However, it has been praised by many people, and I can accept that it is an excellent film. The setting is convincing, the acting is certainly good, especially that of the young actor in the title role, and one can always rely on Stehen Rea and Fiona Shaw, who like a true professional, manages to speak her lines so that the words come out clearly, yet without sacrificing the Irish brogue.I would advise anyone wanting to see it to hire it on DVD, with English subtitles. "},{"Title":"Bewildering story","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While Neil Jordan is one of the best directors today, I just couldn't make out the point of this film. Was this supposed to be a twisted coming of age tale? The story just didn't gel for me. I'm dumbfounded. I was quite disappointed after other Jordan efforts, such as The Boxer, The Crying Game, and In the Name of the Father. "},{"Title":"Loathsome butcher boy","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Butcher Boy (**1/2) has made several 10 best lists, but for me that must mean that we have a lot of emotionally maladjusted movie critics out there! Boy may be a brilliantly executed film, but I think it's one that's easier to respect from a distance than really like.  I for one could not get past the loathsome central character.  The film drags you relentlessly into the psychotic boy's mind to the exclusion of anyone or anything else. Personally, I didn't enjoy going there and was glad to be leaving when the movie was over. Some have interpreted the boy's behavior as being the product of his dreary environment and broken home, but I think this kid would have turned out the same way even if he had been provided with all the advantages. One might say that he makes a dreary world all the worse by his presence!  "},{"Title":"Very Interesting????","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My wife thought it was the most stupid thing she ever say but she gets into more serious dramas and not the artsy flix. I liked it though I thought the dialog was a little hard to understand because of the accents and all.  "},{"Title":"I'm still trying to understand the point of the whole movie.","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This dark comedy perhaps works for others, but I found it deeply unsatisfying. Despite a strong cast and a very weird plot, The Butcher Boy fails for me. The kid is irritating and nauseating throughout. Mischievous he may be, but there is little cause for all his insolence and intransigence. Little is explained in the movie to justify his actions. To make it worse, he seems to be able to find absolution from the apparitions of Mother Mary he gets. Worse still -- she apparently condones his pranks. Huh? Maybe I'm too dense to understand the satirical meaning here, but is Neil Jordan exorcizing some perverse pleasure here to make a point on the rigidness of society? Or something similar? Sorry, I'm still trying to understand the point of the whole movie.  "},{"Title":"Another Tragic Movie designed to tear down conservative values.","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I caught this movie, The Butcher Boy, from early on and was amused, then terribly sad. It is a very tragic movie, it definitely has a liberal message movie though. Sinead O'Connor playing the Virgin Mary should be your first clue, it also features a pedophile Priest, so you begin to see the biases that are involved here (it's a Liberal movie designed to tear down all traditional values). The other hidden message is that the State is the boys sole salvation, not the Church. Obvious references to Communism from the boy's thinking its a bad thing (so as to say it's really good if an insane boy thinks it's bad), support my view. While it was very moving to watch, it's really a movie to tear down traditional values and support a Liberal agenda of the State being your true savior, think about it.     "}]