[{"Title":"powerful","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"52 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  When Martin Sherman's play first appeared (with Ian McKellen as Max and Tom Bell as Horst) it caused outrage and much discussion with its sympathetic and frank treatment of forbidden love in the age of the SS.Here it has undergone a few changes but retains its stark power.  Clive Owen (probably not my first choice for the role) plays Max, the homosexual who pretends to be a Jew so he is not at the bottom of the pecking order of prisoners.  The way the SS force him to prove his sexuality is shocking whether on the printed page, in a theatre, or up on the big screen.  Brian Webber plays his intellectual lover Rudy with some class and it is a brief but touching performance.Lothaire Bluteau, who I had only seen before in 'Jesus of Montreal', was brilliant in the role of Horst, the prisoner with the pink triangle who awakens Max again from his imprisoned desires.  There are quiet and intense scenes between the two that are almost unbearably moving to watch, and are done within this film extremely well.Elsewhere in the cast, Ian McKellen himself plays Uncle Freddie (but those of us who saw him as Max would love to have seen that portrayal immortalised on screen), while Mick Jagger is surprisingly good as Greta (a role which could easily be played wrong but he's spot on).This play/film is intended to make its audience confront their prejudices, to shock, move, and inspire them.  I think it is an unmissable experience - a difficult one, but worthwhile. "},{"Title":"I am in awe","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I sat down to watch this movie, and I was completely drawn into it.  By the end, i thought that only 15 minutes had passed instead of an hour and a half.  The subject matter (homosexual persecution during the Holocaust) was approached with the right amount of dignity and respect.  Bent, furthermore, has the most powerful and original love scene that I have ever seen.  I do feel that it needed more character development, but regardless it is an intensely psychological and powerful movie. "},{"Title":"Very difficult to watch...","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Only half way through this film did I remember having seen a small theatre production of the play in Los Angeles a dozen years ago.  I only remembered when the rock-moving scenes began.  I don't recall being particularly moved by the play -- it may have been a condensed 1-act version or something. I only remember thinking it was too talky.  But, the film was very powerful and moving and enraged me!  I'm also older and more aware of prejudice on every level.  Every gay person...or minority of any kind (race, religion, etc.) should see this film just to remind them (us) of just HOW BAD it can get and how humans can become such sick animals as the Nazis were in this film.  I kept thinking Hey, how can they keep blaming Hitler, when he was not there ordering the guards to torture and ENJOY hurting people like that?  Powerful film! "},{"Title":"An Unusual Depiction of Persecutions In Nazi Germany","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"37 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Its always the Jew's travail I  hear about concerning the Nazi Germany Period, but other GROUPS apparently got treated miserably as well, and this movie deals with one of them.Pathos, tremendous camera action (black/white & technicolor), superb character acting, excellent thematic development and flow, and perfect music accompaniment.I will see it again. "},{"Title":"I was moved by this movie","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This is a very wordy and long-winded response to guajolotl (guajolotl@aol.com)'s commentYetch! In times of desperation and fear, people do awful, incomprehensible things. Everything you know is taken away, the comfortable fears of your daily life are stripped away in an instant and you are put in a situation you are completely unprepared for you could die. People who live like us, who live safe, cannot comprehend the stark and brutal reality of facing your own death. A drag queen that descends from the air every night to serenade a drunken, orgiastic crowd of sexual outlaws may buy their own life with the lives of others. They may embrace a wave of evil and violence so that it doesn't pick them up and drag them under and do it with the same cool smile that they display on the stage. But their song is still bittersweet and regretful, they still have money and time and information for the people they betrayed. And on a train bearing you away from everything you ever knew or imagined for yourself, an outlaw who has lived running for a year before you were tracked down like an animal, you might simply sit (eyes to the ground) while they drag someone you love away. Maybe after taking home a cute blonde only to see his throat slit by storm troopers in your living room, you would listen when someone told you that in order to survive you needed to sit and listen to them torture your lover without moving to help him. And after hours of hearing his cries and screams and being unable to do anything (because there is no way this is your life and your out of you mind with fear and pain) you would say you didn't know your lover when his limp and bloody body was dragged before you. Maybe you would listen to a nightmare voice that ordered you to beat him because there was nothing else to hear. You would follow the one instinct that they had left you, the instinct to survive. By the time they tossed his body out of the train, would you have anything left to feel? When everything had been stripped away but your own life, what wouldn't you do to save it? And maybe your redemption would lie in love. Maybe when you saw someone (someone who had screamed at you and wanted you and needed you and laughed with you even in the face of death) refuse to let you go, run straight into the arms of death rather than let it shoot them in the back, you would finally become fully human again. The agony of that loss would rip through every part of you but you would feel it, you would know that you could feel. And when you took your own life it would be with the utmost dignity; you would stop fiercely clinging to the uncertain promise of survival and wrap your hands around the walls that bound you as you flew free. "},{"Title":"Excellent drama","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I had seen the play on Broadway twice, once with Richard Gere and David Dukes, and once with Michael York and Jeffrey DeMunn. The movie is very faithful to the play and was just as interesting, which usually is not the case.  Mick Jagger is great as Greta.  All in all, I'd recommend this movie and did not find it pretentious in the least. "},{"Title":"Must See!!!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  What can I possibly say about this movie that would not bring me to tears. This movie was very powerful and thought provoking.  I just could not understand the hatred for human beings, just because of what religion, sexual orientation, or whether they had a big nose.  I just can't for the life of me figured that out.  I guess I will never figure it out.There were some very strong scenes in this movie that tugged at my heart. The ridiculous killing of men and women for no apparent reason other than what I said above.  The never ending work the prisoners did was just unspeakable.  The conditions, and also the ever popular  no touching each other.  The latter is the most difficult to endure for two gay men captured and put to work in the concentration camps.  In one powerful scene, that I have to admit I watched over and over about five times, during one of Max and Horst's (main stars) rock moving extravaganza's, they are allowed a three minute rest period while working a twelve hour shift.  They are not allowed to look at each other, they must stand up straight looking ahead (some rest period huh).  Well without giving away the scene.  They have what we would call very graphic and arousing phone sex.  And I have to tell you, I was right there with them.  This scene really brought these two prisoners much closer together and very much in love.  It was beautiful.I have a couple of things that bothered me in this movie.  I really hated the way the SS men spoke to the prisoners.  I mean, one word sentences like You - Walk - Friend? -  or Watching You.  I mean for a people who claimed to be the superior race, these guys were not intelligent at all. Also the fake train outtakes that were obviously superimposed into the movie.  The scenes themselves were in black and white which told the audience that they were not from the original film, but from some other movie.Overall, this movie was profoundly incredible.  It is a must see for everyone, no matter what the content of the movie - gays, murder, sex, SS men, Hitler's BS , concentration camps.  You have to watch this movie with an open heart and mind to actually feel for these people, not just because they were two gay men in love and pain, because they were human beings first and foremost.  7.5 out **********.  See it, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A must see.....a never forget.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This film, based on the theatrical production, is a moving and powerful experience.  It is both emotional and intense and its power moves even a cynic to tears.  While hope bounds throughout the hopeless scenario, the overwhelming feeling is desperation and despair.  Though the settings are largely historically inaccurate, they convey the mood of the era precisely.  A must see for anyone in the GLBT community or anyone with an interest in the Holocaust.Never forget.....NEVER AGAIN! "},{"Title":"Very sad and very touching.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  The play was great and I hoped the movie adaption will work. I'm glad to say it did.Some bits weren't perfect, but the movie is still very sad and bitterly romantic. How sad and heartbreaking...How could people do such things to other people?... Damn. Not an easy movie to watch, but still a must see. Great acting. "},{"Title":"Too Stagey","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Clive Owen plays Max, a loose, carefree, and cowardly playboy who is caught by Nazis along with his gay partner and shipped off to the Dachau concentration camp to do hard labor. He pretends to be in the yellow star unit meaning that he is Jewish instead of the pink triangle unit meaning that he is gay. But he meets a member of the pink triangle named Horst who he befriends and begins developing feelings for as they work day after day moving rocks from one place to another. The film is based on a play of the same name that gained much critical acclaim and won many awards. One viewer may realize this very quickly upon watching this movie as the film does feel quite staged. film works as a message film, the message being be yourself. The film nails this concept pretty much solidly. Unfortunately, there are some distractingly bad flaws here. As I mentioned earlier, the film is incredibly staged. The film doesn't feel like reality. There are scenes that are so stage like in execution, it almost incites an unintentional laugh. There's even a scene of violence that feels extremely prepared and strangely very dance like. It's really too bad because there are some fantastic scenes herein. There is an orgy scene early in the film that is full of erotic passion and beauty. There are some harrowing scenes that take place on the train that are pretty disturbing. And there is an early scene involving Mick Jagger that is pretty interesting. Overall, even though it's interesting, moving and well acted, it's a poor film. There are some undeniably powerful scenes, but there isn't enough there for me. I recommend it if it sounds interesting to you. Just be prepared for some really sloppy directing. "}{"Title":"barely watchable","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I love historical dramas. This subject matter is very rarely talked about. Jews, poles, gypsies and other undesirables were all brutally exterminated. Homosexuals are very rarely talked about. So this subject matter seemed very interesting. From the start the movie seemed like it was going to be a musical, and i almost turned it off. Then it seemed to try to be a rip off of party Monsters but set in pre ww II Germany. The action seemed to get better and the story line started to develop. However the acting and the plot just falls apart, into something predictable and bland. The whole movie seems like someone who wrote a high school play was suddenly given a big movie budget but decided to keep it in a play format. "},{"Title":"Tragedy abundant!","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This is such an extraordinary movie, that I'm not even sure it's possible to convey it. It contains everything that a good movie should. Dynamic characters, a good plot that is not too obvious, love, hate, violence, decadence and death. All the actors are very good. Every scene seems to have a point even despite the pointlessness of the violence and the killing.As i watched it, and time progressed I figured that the time Horst and Max spent in Dachau was supposed to be a catharsis for Max, teaching him not only that love is the only real reason to live, but also teaching him how to love! The film ends in the spring of 1945, and I was feeling so sure that the two of them would be together to experience the liberation by the Russians and so when i finally realized what was really going on I was horrified. It just seemed so pointless and meaningless. But then I suddenly got it. It was not pointless. Their lives had not been without meaning and their deaths weren't either. They loved each other and died for each other.The film was just positively full of beautiful and captivating moments set in the stark contrast of the concentration camp. The scene where they make love without touching. The scene where Max warms Horst. The scene where Horst knows that he is going to die, and gives Max the secret signal that says he loves him. I think that he does so to save Max's life. And the very powerful scene where Max put's on Horsts shirt and kills himself.This is a hard movie to watch. It's a hard movie to feel good about. But once I really took it in, once I understood it's underlying existentialistic points I actually did feel good about it, and would recommend it to you. "},{"Title":"Detailing the degradation of Nazi-regime victims...","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Homosexual playboy in 1930s Germany fights to keep himself and his gay flat-mate out of the grasp of Nazi soldiers, but they are soon rounded up and face the horrors of war. This tough-going drama doesn't delve too deeply into the Party's initial conflict over homosexuality, but it does touch on the labeling of gay men with the Pink Triangle, making them perhaps even more reviled than the Jews (Clive Owen picks the yellow Star of David symbol over the triangle, figuring being a Jew might actually help him survive). Initially arty presentation has flashes of pretension, but is still gripping on a visual and visceral level and very well-acted. It's almost two different movies however, with a work-camp second-half given an appropriately straightforward, if unexciting, direction. Adapted from the controversial play, the last act has perhaps more going on than is actually revealed, and the viewer may either feel the movie loses its energy and soul during this portion or that it is successful on an entirely different level. In any case, difficult as an entertainment, but certainly worthwhile for those curious about this lost chapter in history. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"If you didn't like it, you shouldn't be watching movies like this","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"20 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not a high budget movie, and you can tell.  But what makes a movie?  Not its high budget.  The story and the characters make a movie, and this one had it.  How brave of a group to go into this very untouched piece of history and show it so elegantly.  While some of the scenes may have seemed a bit cheesy, or stagey as someone said earlier, you need to understand the position these people where in.  While making love without touching may seem odd, or weird, that is all they had.  That was all the human contact they had.  If you can't see that you shouldn't be watching movies like this one. "},{"Title":"Blew Me Away (SPOILERS!)","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Bent succeeded in completely moving me. I'm known amongst my friends for not showing emotion during movies, but this one had me crying loud at the end. The performances by Clive Owen and Lothaire Bluteau were totally stunning and very believable. I also very much loved Mick Jagger's performance. And Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau! He was there for such a short part in the film but he amazed me! The violence did not seem to be too much, it was realistic and not overdone whatsoever. Some people seem to complain about it being too much like the stage play, but I actually preferred it that way. Bent is a truly beautiful story, I'm surprised I hadn't heard of it a long time ago. It's a great example of how horrid human beings can be toward one another, but also the true love and kindness that exists within us as well. "},{"Title":"slow but good film","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Bent was a movie i was once familiar with but have never seen due to it's NC-17 rating but i caught the R rated version and it was a good film. The beginning of the film was starting to steer me in the wrong direction but about twenty minutes in this film becomes engaging,sad,and powerful. Clive Owen gives an amazing performance in this film his character goes through many changes and Clive Owen adapts to each change. This film somewhat reminded me of Broke Back Mountain, not because of the homosexuality but how it is portrayed in both films it is portrayed in love, during the time periods of both films homosexuality was a forbidden love and that is what both films are about. Overall if you can stand some slowness and some bizarreness ( Mick Jaggar is in drag and sings all in the first five mins.) Bent is a film well worth watching. This movie deserves in R rating, there is a scene of pretty strong Sexual dialog and the violence may not be prominent but when it is on scree it can be extreme at times also there is some language. "},{"Title":"Powerful Performances (mild spoilers)","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  `Bent' has you feeling every emotion possible. Anger at Max and  Horst's conditions. Rejoicing in their affection. Sadness at their pain. Hope for their future. Despair for their realities. This movie shows a rarely exposed side of the holocaust in a realistic, dramatic, and extremely serious representation of these mens' lives. Like the star of David, the pink triangle is a sign of hardship and pride. The last moments of this film enforce that with unforgettable clarity. This is a film that should be seen by everyone with a strong constitution, an open mind, and a caring heart. "},{"Title":"Clive Owen has found a fan for life...","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I happened upon this movie in the Sundance Film Recommends section, and didn't even read the box before renting it. The name of the film sounded familiar...as it turns out, it was from a bit of miscellaneous info stashed in my brain Jude Law IS in this movie. Saying that, however, blink and you'll miss him. His role is exactly 2 lines, and he wears an eyepatch, so for those Jude fans on the prowl for great eye-candy, you may be disappointed.Granted, you will not be disappointed with this movie as a whole. I was extremely moved by this picture; it has the wonderful, heart-wrenching quality that only a great play can produce, mixed with a very compelling lead actor and fabulous supporting cast.Clive Owen as Max was a wake-up call; at the end you may be asking yourself, where can I see more of this actor??.  He plays his character with beauty, strength, and emotion under conditions that no lving thing should have to endure.The rest of the cast is equally wonderful, especially Ian McKellan as Uncle Freddie. He adds that special charm that we expect from his performances, no matter how small the role.This movie requires an open mind, and the ability to not deny the reality of horrific, true events of the past. Above all, to not deny the importance of love, that which always tests and strengthens the human spirit. "},{"Title":"An incredibly powerful, gut-wrenching film","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" A completely overlooked chapter in the cruelty and horror other minorities suffered under the brutal Nazi's. Brilliantly acted, written, edited and directed, this film is the most powerful film I have seen in years. The feeling without touching scene is brilliantly shattering and moving. The casting is superb from Clive Owen, Jude Law, and Ian McKellan and especially entertaining was the performance of Mick Jagger. At times the cruelty depicted was painful to watch, especially the scene in the train, but realistic nonetheless. This film will have you running the full gamut of emotions. Why it did not win Oscars Best Picture and Best Actor for Clive Owen I will never understand. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Yawn......","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Even though it is meant to be a good movie, it really isn't because it just doesn't seem to make sense for. OK in the beginning , we know well that it's set in a gay bar during world war II and of course, the lead character Max is gay.Then he gets involved with this Nazi solider and he gets killed when he was found out by the Nazi party. Then the other characters escaped and that's when I thought this movie kinda went downhill on me, it just didn't make sense! It didn't concentrate much on the characters as it should've done and the movie really dragged on so I decided to just not watch it anymore.Mick Jagger was excellent at his role and of course, singing streets of Berlin in drag!I just wish he really made more appearances in this film, it didn't work much without him / "}{"Title":"Jew. Pervert. Bent.","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The wonderful thing about art in general is that it is not created to simply cause sheer pleasure; therefore it can be good without necessarily being pleasant. 'Bent' is a textbook example for such. I saw the movie as an unconventional love story, set in Germany during the Holocaust era.Max (Owen Wilson) is a homosexual man living in Berlin with his dancer lover Rudy (Brian Webber), and indulging himself into an affair with a Nazi officer. Soon the Nazis track down this officer and slit his throat as a punishment. Shocked, Max and Rudy flee their flat and live in the woods, light years away from their previous lifestyle. However, they are found by Nazis and are transported to the Dachau concentration camp. The train ride is where the prisoners' spirits are first broken, as Max is forced to kill Rudy and have sex with a young girl in order to get the yellow star (signifying he's a Jew) instead of the pink triangle (which is for homosexuals). What originally motivates him is the sound advice of a more experienced gay captive, Horst (Lothaire Bluteau), who makes it clear to him that everyone is on his own and that there is no lower rank among the prisoners than having to wear the pink triangle. In a haunting sentence, Horst says If you want to stay alive, you cannot exist. Once in Dachau, Horst and Max slowly but gradually fall in love despite the inhumane conditions and hardships they have to endure.Director Sean Mathias made sure the train ride is seen as long and frightening trip to hell by portraying it as a machine of terror, aptly using black-and-white imagery and sound effects. He also did a wonderful job at capturing the desolate condition of Dachau by focusing on the iron gates buzzing with electricity. Though war is not explicitly dealt with, the scenarios were carefully selected to reflect the deprived sense of chaos, desperation, hunger and hopelessness. The background music, entirely played by classical instruments, also added to this effect and fit the purpose perfectly.Especially in the first half an hour the characters seem to be overly (melo)dramatic. The gay nightlife seems to be a glittering mess of orgies, with strange but artsy men and women (though mainly men) exchanging bodily fluids as it would be the sole purpose of their existence. I had a bit of a problem with that, because to me those scenes showed no real purpose. They brought out the fact that there were homosexuals also among the Nazis, and it also served as a great contrast to the Dachau environment, but I would have loved it if the story would have allowed a glimpse into another aspect of Max's life aside from sex and parties. However, in a play this underground eroticism must have had a different and perhaps stronger effect than on screen. I simply was looking for something more to Max in the first third of the movie.However, Clive Owen was so amazing that even this is forgivable. I watched him open-mouthed as he delivered the one-hundred-percent credible character of Max to the audience. It seems to me that he was born to bring to life the strong, direct, and at times shocking dialogue that was evident throughout the movie (another example for this would be his role in 'Closer'). I think if I were to read the script, I could not imagine anyone else as Max's voice but Clive Owen. He was a perfect choice.I must also point out and praise the brief yet powerful appearances of several other great artists and actors, such as Mick Jagger as the transvestite Greta, Ian McKellen as Uncle Freddie, Jude Law as the storm trooper, his former wife Sadie Frost as Max's friend, and Rachel Weisz as a prostitute.The viewer only begins to understand Horst well into the movie, when him and Max are assigned for the senseless act of piling stones (and later on snow) from one place to the other. At first he is very rejecting, but then he proves to be a very sensitive person, crushed by the weight of human cruelty. His love and longing for Max is very honest and direct, and despite the unspeakable circumstances, there was something romantic about their growing affection for one another. I absolutely loved the scene when they first 'make love' without touching, without even looking at each other, simply by using words and their imagination to reach out. There was something deeply sad about it, and yet it also managed to show just how ridiculous and meaningless the entire concept of the Holocaust was.It seemed to me that Max undergoes a tremendous change by the end of the movie. He goes from being an irresponsible pretty 'fluff' to a caring, strong man who realizes it is more important to be what he is (or symbolically wear the pink triangle) than it is to be alive without existing. His character shows the audience that surviving without being able to exist is just as meaningless as piling stones from one heap to the other.As I mentioned in the beginning, this movie is not pleasant to watch. Though at times it was disturbing, this movie opened my eyes to the wide range of victims the Nazi regime tortured and killed. It puts the focus on homosexual Holocaust victims, and I find that a very rare thing. What made it so heartbreaking was that I know that Max's story does not fall far from the horrid truth WWII presented to millions. Nonetheless, 'Bent' is a good movie, because it shows something true, if ever so painful. "},{"Title":"Do not forget-","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This journey is filled with seductive images and feelings-feelings that we tend to forget until we are reminded that life can change on a dime-There is a scene on the way to Dachau where the Max (Clive Owen) has to denounce knowing his friend... He is not my friend.....reminicient of Judas denying Jesus....was it to save himself or his friend....the answer comes when one cannot no longer deny who you are- facing your truth brings-reclaiming your dignity-Max's final journey.Lothair (Jesus of Montreal) and a new-comer, Jude Law (The Talent Mr. Ripley) add to make up a fine cast.Splendid job by all-especially Mr.Clive Owen.Take the journey -it's worth your time. "},{"Title":"A moving story of love over oppression.","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Martin Sherman's play Bent has been much-praised since its first staging starring Sir Ian McKellen, and Mathias's film builds on this success. Clive Owen and Lothaire Bluteau are astounding in this film based on the 'Night of the Long Knives', where so-called homosexuals were killed or sent to work camps.The film begins with the wonderfully decadent Berlin nightclubs Greta's club.  This is where Mick Jagger plays Greta/George and sings the empty, haunting melodies of the cynic. It continues through the backstreets of Berlin and later, the camps.  The photography is wonderful and if you've seen the play you might appreciate the broad 'staging' of the film the view is often wide, theatrical and stark.The film successfully addresses the oppression people felt at the outbreak of war and Nazism.  Ultimately, however, one might say it is a love story. The camp scenes, where the love story is 'located', are amazing.  Owen and Bluteau are on fantastic form. Doomed love, oppressed love and selfless love overcoming the dreadful circumstances.This is a film that inspires you the story of a fight for love and survival in the face of diabolical persecution. "},{"Title":"Contains spoilers","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This is about the 'Pink Triangle' aspect of the Holocaust perpetrated by Nazi's in the pre-WW2 Germany. Homosexual men were rounded up and placed into concentration camps and made to wear the Pink Triangles. The movie's main protagonist Max lived the good life in Berlin (i.e. having as much sex and cocaine with as many sexy men as he could find despite being in a relationship with another man, much to his boyfriend's heartbreak) before the 'Night of the Long Knives' in which the Nazis rounded up as many of the openly gay men as possible. In the transition to the camp Max is forced by the guards to rape a dead 13 year old girl and to murder his lover in order to prove that he is not 'bent'. Max begins to deny who he really is, denying his sexuality and refusing to wear the pink triangle. He makes deals with the guards (by 'going down' on them) and in order to wear the yellow star instead (odd). While in the camp he meets and bonds with a fellow inmate called Horst. They gradually bond and make love to each other without actually physically touching each other (you have to watch it to believe it). As a result of this, Horst says that We were real. We made love. We were human. They are not going to kill us. Horst challenges Max's denial of who he really is and Max admits that he loves despite not being allowed to love. The movie ends in tragedy but before that Horst has made Max proud of what and who he is and he starts to wear his pink triangle with pride. It is a story about love, intolerance and homophobia. The central message of the movie is voiced by Horst when he says about homophobia It is silly. The Harlequin Nazis, queer saints, queer geniuses and queer nobodies&#133;we just people. That is why I am wearing this pink triangle and that is why you should be wearing it. The message being that we are all people that are of equal worth. This is Clive Owen's best work to date and despite him joining the Hollywood A-List since, with hits such as 'Closer' (also a good movie) and 'Inside Man' (an entertaining movie); this will always be my favourite Clive Owen movie. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I'm not going to give anything away here, but it really is one of the most touching and beautiful films i have ever seen.The story is so touching and is an emotional roller-coaster, but it is written so superbly, that you feel you are experiencing exactly what all the characters feel. Even though at times, it is clear that it hasn't transferred well from the stage to the screen, you can easily forgive these errors thanks to it's stunning acting and brilliant editing.The moment (apart from the shocking and very distressing ending) was the scenes on the train, the editing in this scene was astounding. Obviously the action itself is very harrowing and extremely brutal, but the way that the train scenes are edited together is superb, and you feel the claustrophobia and stress that they are feeling.The ending of the piece really distressed me, but it is so moving that no film has ever moved me the way this did.Wow. "},{"Title":"Felt nothing for the main characters","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I watched this in two stages first half, late at night; second half the following evening. I love historical stories set in Europe during WWII. I was intrigued by the first part, even though it was quite disturbing, however, the second part between the two principles, the real heart of the story, just left me completely cold. I cared nothing for either of them. I don't even know what to say about Max, but if I did, there wouldn't be much good in it. Horst was just downright annoying and nag. I found their verbal sexual interaction boring and pretentious; I was sorry it was repeated later in the film. The action was so staid in this ridiculous situation they were in, that I was relieved when one of them was killed. Maybe you're supposed to feel that way. I don't doubt that such situations really happened, senseless as the Nazis were, but I just don't think it made for interesting story telling. Honestly, the only character I felt anything for was Rudy; I was sorry he died so early on. Just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Concentration camps of the mind","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" By coincidence, I was reading Double Life A Love Story from Broadway to Hollywood at the same time that I saw this movie.It will undoubtedly seem a stretch to compare the lives of a well-off creative gay couple in America to a pair of homosexual inmates in the extraordinarily brutal circumstances of a Nazi concentration camp, but during the very well acted parts of the film where Clive Owen stood next to Lothaire Bluteau and they were able to make love without touching or doing anything obvious to anyone watching, it did seem remarkably similar to the life the American couple led for so many years.They too could never touch or show affection in public. In New York they lived separately and one had a marriage of convenience to a lesbian in order to survive professionally. Even after they eventually lived together and despite the fact that most people knew they were living together, for many social and business events they would never attend together and usually appeared with a woman date.Even in Hollywood, of all places, for one of the men to get anywhere as a movie studio executive, any public evidence of their gay relationship had to be kept hidden away&#x85; and for that matter, most of the Jews in Hollywood during that time kept their Jewish identity hidden as well.What I saw in this movie was less to do with the Nazis specifically and more to do with the survival of emotional stability and of love in a hostile environment that refuses to accept that love can even exist.Even for the American couple, life was only tolerable when they did everything they could to conceal their love and their relationship for much of their 50 years together. And it wasn't just a matter of personal convenience. One was entrapped and arrested in a public toilet. The other was robbed and threatened with death by a pair of men whose main motivation was their loathing for faggots. Blackmail overt and subtle existed throughout their lives.Yes, the movie was set in Nazi Germany, the epitome of all that's evil, but the message isn't meant simply as a historical reference. The freedom to be who you are and to love who you choose is still held hostage by the official and unofficial suppression of minorities, whether it's in places like Iran or Uganda or even in Middle America. Just because we aren't forced to wear striped uniforms or yellow/pink badges doesn't mean that we're free. The suicide rate amongst young gay people in America ought to be a call for change, but it's dismissed just as what happened to gays in Nazi Germany is ignored.You can choose to view this movie as a further indictment of the Nazis or you can see it as a much broader statement. "},{"Title":"This movie moved me","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" At the beginning I was thinking Great, it's another classed up slow moving BORE that is going to leave me angry that no one seems capable of getting it right I have never been so honored to eat my own words in my life. This movie was so incredibly moving that I have encouraged everyone I know to watch it. I will not even try to describe how touching and beyond words the script/directing/Acting are. Even the set locations were done breathtakingly. I encourage any and all to find this movie and watch it, then watch it again with all of your friends.The actors (especially Clive Owen, Lothaire Bluteau, and the GREAT Sir Ian McKellen)pulled you in to their world and lives, in a way that many mainstream A listers would give their front teeth to be able to do. I applaud there seemingly endless ability to dig just that tiny bit deeper to make it just the smallest bit realer again and again. My only honest criticism of this movie might be that there was once or twice were I felt the writing almost crossed into the predictable cheese of romance. These are the kinds of people I want making more movies in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A look at WWII Gay Berlin","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This film was wonderful.  It may be the first to offer a good look at how WWII Gay Berlin may have been for people who risked their lives to  be themselves.  It is an important work in that the subject matter in this context has hardly been touched.  The casting and portrayal of characters were very well done and combined with the setting and script to create a haunting feel through-out the film lasting long after it was over.  "},{"Title":"I saw this 20 years ago on Broadway with Richard Gere as Max.","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately, there is only one review on this film in IMDb, and the reviewer found it to be a piece of tripe. Well, every one is entitle to his opinion; it just so happens that my opinion is thoroughly the opposite.I saw this piece on Broadway 20 years ago with Richard Gere in the lead, and was blown away.  I almost was afraid to watch this film for fear that it could never live up to the play, but it does. You don't have to be gay to appreciate the psychological implications of this piece.  Bent allows us to observe the human psyche under extreme pressure like the prison experiments that took place (and got terribly out of control) in America.  We see how strong the human will to live, even when it is horribly demeaned. We see that this will to live can drive us to acts that are beneath the diginity we would all like to have. We see, however, that love is the one emotion that can lead us to dignity even under the most extream situation.  Love is the one emotion that can make us humans honorable. This is a subtle and moving film that extends all boundaries. Bravo!  "}{"Title":"Unlucky Charms","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Nazi-era playboy Clive Owen (as Max) and his dancer lover Brian Webber (as Rudy) are pursued by Nazis, after Mr. Owen is picked up by blond hunk Nikolaj Waldau (as Wolf), in a gay club. After being captured, Owen and Mr. Weber are tortured, on a train to Germany's first concentration camp, at Dachau. Also on the train, Owen meets Lothaire Bluteau (as Horst). Mr. Bluteau wears the Pink Triangle identifying him as a homosexual, which is considered an especially low form of human life, by the Nazis. To avoid being beaten to death, Owen pretends to be Jewish, and is given the identifying Yellow Star. At the concentration camp, prisoners Owen and Bluteau fall in love; but, they must avoid any physical contact.The opening club/orgy sequence is presented in a disjointed, confusing fashion. It's hard to figure out what is going on -- you should, if possible, play the opening (up until the Nazis bust into Owen's pad) twice. The cast is enhanced by cross-dressing Mick Jagger (as Greta), and the original 1979 stage production's Max, Ian McKellen (as Uncle Freddie). Mr. Jagger also sings the haunting theme Streets of Berlin. Director Sean Mathias and supporting actor Webber make excellent first impressions; it's strange to see so little work (film credits) immediately followed this production.This film version of Martin Sherman's forbidden love story is far from perfect; but, it's still quite captivating. The extent of man's inhumanity to man is, as always, horrifying. The film's non-physical sex scene, performed at the concentration camp, is extremely touching. ******* Bent (1997) Sean Mathias ~ Clive Owen, Lothaire Bluteau, Mick Jagger "},{"Title":"Great performances, uneven story","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Gay lust/love and decadence in Berlin, Jews-Nazis-concentration camps - all intriguing elements, a good basis for developing a tense narration where different aspects of human nature move to the surface. The story can be roughly divided into 2 parts, different by mood - before arrest and after it. Although the 1st one has menacing circumference as well, events in the secretive club (including nice performance by Mick Jagger) are in total contrast with miseries in Dachau where gays and Jews were the lowest strata, suffering most hardships. The 2nd part includes the strongest scenes of the film where the 2 protagonists (splendidly performed by Clive Owen and Lothaire Bluteau) have to stand attention... The ending was, unfortunately, predictable, and not all scenes have equal significance for the progression of the script. Nevertheless, unless you are uncomfortable with different approaches on known events, then Bent is definitely for you; plus I think that Clive Owen should be used more in profound drama films - he did a great job here. "},{"Title":"A disturbing film with a lot to say","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This film stayed with me for a long time after watching it. The questions I asked myself about how I would act in these same circumstances. The cruelty of man is very clear here; not only physically but also spiritually. I cared about these characters and hurt with them. I would recommend this film to my friends. "},{"Title":"Has a stage feel, but is worthwhile","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  While I agree with many reviewers that this film does indeed have a theater feel--and it uses a lot of theatrical devices that seem awkward to us on the big screen--I didn't mind it so much. I like plays, also, so these components were fine. The movie is a bit weak at first in developing characters; we have to assume a lot about how likeable the protagonists are (which makes it hard to be terribly upset if they die-- we just don't know them well enough). On the other hand, this is an utterly unique topic. The Holocaust is often thought of as a strictly Jewish Holocaust and, while European Jews bore the huge brunt of its terror, Catholics, communists, Roma (Gypsies), Slavs, and homosexuals were also a part of it. In that sense, this movie has an extremely important message because it focuses our attention not only on the oppression of homosexuals per se but also on the nature of the Holocaust as it happened in 1930s/40s Europe. On this basis, it's a very worthwhile film. I look very forward to other films on this theme that this one has opened the door for, too. "},{"Title":"Why the MPAA is no good","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Think about loving another person and then not being able to touch them.  Think about a place where moral depravity is encouraged.  The themes and plot of this movie is for the thinker or a more mature viewer who can look past the stereotypes of homosexuality and see the truth about love.  This movie brought tears to my eyes. "},{"Title":"Not Completely Successful but Still Worth a Look","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Adapting stage plays to the screen is a process fraught with all sorts of dangers; decisions constantly must be made as to how faithful to make the adaptation. Sometimes a very courageous director will simply give the film audience basically the same thing the stage audience saw (as with THE BOYS IN THE BAND or THE BAD SEED); others will open up the play to make it more cinematic; the results there tend to vary from brilliant (CABARET, for example) to awful (A CHORUS LINE).Director Sean Mathias's film version of Martin Sherman's landmark play BENT is a harrowing look at the fate of the Gay community under Nazism told through the eyes of Max (Clive Owen), a promiscuous habitué of the boy bars who is arrested along with his boyfriend Rudy (Brian Webber) the morning after bringing home a member of the SA (Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau). On the way to Dachau Max is forced to beat Rudy to death by the brutal SS guards to prove his claim that he is not homosexual; Max has decided that a yellow star (Jewish) would be less dangerous a marker than a pink triangle.In the early scenes of the film we are given a look at the Berlin club scene; Mick Jagger has a stunning cameo as Greta, a performer at the club who knows what's coming and makes an abortive attempt to warn Max, but Max won't listen; neither will he listen to his uncle Freddie (Ian McKellen), an older and more discreet man who satisfies his desires in secret with rent boys. Freddie manages to get faked papers for Max but he will not leave without Rudy, and tragically, this decision spells doom ultimately for both of them.The second half of the story focuses on Max at Dachau; he is paired with another Gay prisoner, Horst (Lothaire Bluteau), and together they are made to move heavy stones from one pile to another and back again, and again, and again. Under the incredibly dehumanizing circumstances, these two men somehow manage to fall in love; and the result is one of the most remarkable and painful love stories ever put on film.Unfortunately, you have to wait nearly an hour to get to the story of Max and Horst, which is the segment of the film that has all the power and impact of Sherman's play. The first half, despite cutting out huge chunks of dialogue, seems interminable and lacks energy; one feels that had they kept the play's first half intact it would have taken about half an hour less to get to Dachau, which is where the beating heart of the story is located.The acting is wonderful, though. Clive Owen, brought in to fill Richard Gere's shoes (Gere had played the role on Broadway but was doing another film at the time), displays a haunting vulnerability as the terrified Max, and Lothaire Bluteau's Horst is in many ways the central figure of the piece, as he stands for what happens when love and hate collide. Bluteau bares his soul in probably the best performance in the picture, though he is in very good company.I give this one a 6 because what it does well, it does exceptionally well. It's a pity that the first half is so dull; the original was anything but. "},{"Title":"I was an extra in this film!","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I was an extra in this film, when I was 11 or 12 years old. I'm 24 now, but at the time I was a member of a local casting agency and me and another friend Lee found ourselves as part of the small group of children that had to paddle about in the water in the scene where the soldiers and prisoners march by. From what I recall it was a days worth of filming and I had to have my step cut out from my hair (it was the style back then!)but it was a really interesting experience. I remember the day being boiling hot but being treated really nicely by the production staff. It makes me laugh now at how blaze I was that this film starred the talents of Sir Ian McKellen and Clive Owen amongst others, but as an 11 year old I didn't know who they were! I was disappointed not to be credited at the end, that would have really proved to my friends that I have been in a film (albeit a very very small blink and you miss it moment!). "},{"Title":"This movie is GORGEOUS!","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The movie is gorgeous! I think. I especially like the part the two guys stood there and make love to each without touching and looking at each other...touching your emotion actually...the desperate suicide committed by the man was unavoidable and sad...'yes, I love you; yes'...a confirmation of love is more than thousands of words...nice movie! 10 lines comments? wow, too critical for a good movie review...the Gettysburg address by Abraham Lincoln was short but convincible!powerful.The movie is gorgeous! I think. I especially like the part the two guys stood there and make love to each without touching and looking at each other...touching your emotion actually...the desperate suicide committed by the man was unavoidable and sad...'yes, I love you; yes'...a confirmation of love is more than thousands of words...nice movie! "},{"Title":"Surprisely good","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I rented this movie without knowing anything about what it was about...only knew that Clive Owen was in it. I enjoy Clive Owen and think he's an exceptional actor. Well, to say the least, I was pleasantly surprised on how well this movie was done.Some points make you want to cry because it vividly portrays how cruel people can be. The movie is passionate and quite moving. I would recommend it to those over 18.One last comment it is a short film (only 100mins long) and holds a gay storyline, however it is done 1000x better that than crap Brokeback Mountain.I would definitely see it again! "},{"Title":"An intense statement","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Here-to-fore, I have refrained from commenting on any theatrical vehicle. (But) after reading some of the reviews regarding this movie, I felt compelled to articulate my humble opinion (with my run-on sentences and severely inadequate command of the English language). It is all so easy, apparently, to disregard or criticize a movie based on rather specious nitpicking. Bent is so much more than depicting an era or circumstance. It transcends the bourgeois concept of human strength. After all, there's only fear of the present, fear of pain, and fear of the prospect of death. Whether it is spiritual or visceral, human survival thrives in the mist of that fear.During my time in NYC (centuries ago), I had the opportunity to see the play and it moved me deeply. The movie captures the essence of the play. Like the play the movie is a testament to those who, while espousing 'Love of God and Country', sadistically treat others. The result is human degradation and the despair that erupts as one can no longer see their worthiness. When 'Max' says that 'queers aren't meant to love' epitomizes the current relevance and intolerance that the movie attempts to depict. Does anyone really believe anything has fundamentally changed? Such foolish children you are.I recommend this film without reservation. Its brutality and tenderness are intoxicating. "}{"Title":"Life's Not A Cabaret Old Chum","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" No person who is knowledgeable about the Holocaust can ever claim that without seeing Bent. The play which opened in 1979 in London is about those all too forgotten victims of the Holocaust, the gay people of Europe. On Broadway the lead role that Clive Owen plays was essayed by Richard Gere for the run of 241 performances in the 1979-1980 season. Doing his original role from the London production as Uncle Freddie is Sir Ian McKellan.For those who think that homosexuality doesn't have an inherited element in it, Bent certainly gives lie to that. During the Weimar Republic years Germany had a thriving gay if somewhat discreet scene. After the Night of the Long Knives with the SA purge in 1934, gays were systematically rounded up for a final solution and Hitler certainly did a thorough job of it. Today the German Federal Republic has once again a thriving gay scene. Those recessive genes are popping out in full force.Bent does begin right at the Night of the Long Knives where Ernst Roehm was killed and anyone whoever knew of him and his not so discreet gay lifestyle was done in. The long knives of Himmler's SS come calling that night on Clive Owen and his boyfriend Brian Webber because they've picked up a pretty young man who used to trick with Roehm. He dies quite gruesomely, but they escape.Owen seeks aid from an old gay man who's called Uncle Freddie played by Ian McKellan who gives him some help, but whom Owen doesn't take some good advice from. McKellan has been very much deep in the closet, it's what's made him survive a society where homophobia is not just approved, but is now the law of the land.After this the scene cuts to a train to Dachau and Dachau itself where Owen and Webber are taken. Webber doesn't survive the trip, that scene is something I don't want to reveal. Owen decides that he'll take the Jewish star of David rather than a pink triangle, in the Dachau pecking order gay is worse than Jewish. Just as Schindler's List showed the dehumanization of Jews, Bent shows the dehumanization of gay people. Only there was no Oskar Schindler to save some of them. In fact sexuality as a form of repression has not ever been better displayed on screen than in Bent.But Owen learns about gay pride from another prisoner, Lothaire Bluteau who wears the pink triangle in defiance. They find a connection and consummate that connection in the only way they can do it under the circumstances. Again a scene I can't reveal.This film should not be missed by any Gay/Lesbian/Bi-Sexual/Trangendered person on this planet. It shows better than anything else what we potentially face in the way of repression when we are dehumanized by law and societal mores. We cannot let that happen and we have to make sure it's stopped in the places it does happen in the world.And this review is dedicated to all the brothers and sisters who died back then. Here's hope for a better world for our next generation. "},{"Title":"I thought it was deep and beautiful.","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I just saw Bent after several recommendations.  I have read all of the other comments, and I agree (more or less) with all of them.  I can see how some would not like this movie, but I thought that it was intense, eye-catching, and thought provoking.This movie does have a strong psychological component.  They main characters are extremely dissociated from their environment, destined to a sisyphean feat of hauling rocks (the best job in the camp).  The obvious growth of Max throughout the movie is extremely metaphoric to the entire process of coming out.  The emotional distance that Max maintains in the camp is typical of what gays and lesbians endure prior to accepting themselves. And, I hope that I wasn't the only one who thoroughly enjoyed the encounters between the 2 men standing at attention.  This is the point in the movie that I felt that I was watching 2 men in the 1980's.  They finally opened themselves up to mental and physical intimacy without touching at all, although their physical contact would have resulted in gunfire instead of a virus.  But, even in these intense scenes, there is a potential to hurt those who we most care about.  I don't mean to sound melodramatic - I didn't live through the concentration camps and I didn't even have that bad of a coming out - but, I couldn't help feeling like I'd been through all of this in my own life.I can't wait to watch it again.    "},{"Title":"very engrossing and thought provoking","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  The characters were not fleshed out enough to move you emotionally one way or the other until further into the film. You find yourself becoming engrossed with the likelihood of the events portrayed in this movie.  "},{"Title":"Pink Triangle...lower than yellow star","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  In response to a previous review, claiming that we've seen the story of the holocaust told from everything but a dog's point of viewLast time I checked, Hitler had never commanded his troops to raid kennels or stalk the general areas surrounding fire-hydrants to round-up deviant basset hounds or infidel poodles.   So it should be a surprise to no one that finally, what we have here in Bent, is the holocaust experience from the other victim's perspective  --the unknown number of homosexuals who suffered and/or perished along with the Jewish.  Woof.  Or does this call for a meow?Cinematically speaking, our story limps along clumsily until our main character and his cringe-inducing mate are captured by the Nazi henchmen. In other words Hang in there...unlike Ozzy Osbourne, it makes more sense as it moves along.  And I must say, if I were saddled with a whining, Guy Pearce-clone, ballerina-boyfriend... I might be moved to throw him off a train too. Almost everything post-capture is compelling movie-watching Sad, repugnant, inspiring and most certainly disturbing.  Not boring.For the most part, Bent is a love story between two men in dire need and circumstance.  Nowhere on screen have I previously witnessed such a convincing and moving portrayal of the bond of love between two gay males. And this feat is pulled off with amazing restraint, zero touch, and nary a spec of eye contact.  Bravo to Clive Owen and Lothaire Bluteau, who despite their lack of character development command viewer interest at a consistent and affecting level.It's no masterpiece for sure, but so what...Bent rocks.  And it's a film that needed to be made...  in spite of Mick Jagger, whose appearance here in cheap, waxy, drugstore lipstick is surely enough to make Milton Berle do 360 in his grave.  Now *there's* a woof for ya'... "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This film is about the experience of two gay men who got imprisoned in a Nazi concentration camp.The film is minimalistic, but it is very touching. The most striking thing to me is the amount of time dedicated to moving rocks. It is dry, dull and boring, which reflects what life was probably like in a concentration camp. Another striking aspect is that the concentration camp completely changes Max. In the beginning of the film, Max indulges in carnal pleasures. As the film progresses, he becomes satisfied with imagination. The most touching thing in the whole film is the ending. He is finally allowed to touch Horst, but it is all too late.Bent is a touching film, and I hope it can reach out to a wider audience. "},{"Title":"Grim Doings","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This will remain an obscure film unless the viewer is familiar with the play as originally written and staged.  I saw the original production and a local production and the play deserves to remain on the stage.   In opening up the film, we get a mystic view of pre-Hitler Berlin that i enjoyed and also some detailed shots of the countryside location and the harsh reality within the factory where prisoners are working.  There are several intense scenes but the whole claustrophobic feeling generated on stage is never matched by the close-ups in the film. "},{"Title":"Mick jagger in drag-nice one","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This movie is heart warming, frightening, and hilarious. Mick Jagger as the formidable Greta was absolutely brilliant this man has definitely gone up in my estimations. Clive Owen gave an amazing portrayal as the tortured hero Max, and Lothaire Bluteau as Horst was exceptional. Both these fine actors both deserve a lot of recognition for their outstanding performances. The writer of this film used a winning formula and should have been recognised with an oscar. Whoever came up with the idea of Mick Jagger as a drag queen should be congratulated. "},{"Title":"Uneven yet affecting, with a great performance from Clive Owen","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Bent is an interesting little Holocaust-film curio (based on a stage production) that looks at the death camps from a homosexual perspective. It is intermittently affecting overall, but has its moments of pretension and self-indulgence (the baroque, decadent opening in Berlin comes to mind); the film can't really shake its stage roots, either, as reflected in certain scene setups (Ian McKellen's cameo in the park feels especially artificial). While conflicted over Bent's seesaw of moments both powerful and superficial, I wound up liking it. Max (Clive Owen) is a member of Berlin's decadent gay underworld before World War II; when the Germans invade, he is promptly shipped off to a labor camp. Along the way, he meets Horst (Lothaire Bluteau), a fellow prisoner who's homosexual; as the duo stacks rocks in blazing summer and freezing winter, they strike up an unconventional love affair (standing still during a 3-minute break every 2 hours, they make love verbally (and literally); these scenes are greatly affecting, with Owen and Bluteau fully convincing us of their passion. Several years before he became a household name, Owen really proved his capabilities here. Though Bent treads to an achingly symbolic conclusion, the effort--for the most part--is worth seeing the whole way through. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Moving, Brilliantly Artistic!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Incredibly Moving, Brilliantly Artistic! Who needs Spielberg to tell the gay story of Nazi Germany? The entire story builds up to an incredible LAST scene... If your butch, bring some kleenex. If your fem, breakout all the rolls from C*stco!! You must see this movie! "},{"Title":"Too pretentious and stagey","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  First, I admire the audacity of the filmmakers here. But, alas, this is a very bad film. People tend to tread lightly over and treat with kid gloves any movie involving the Holocaust or serious homosexual themes. Criticizing such films is tantamount to anti-Semiticism or homophobia. These filmmakers were probably trying to multiply such sympathies by using both themes. Its theatre source is apparent. It's pretentious and tries too hard to push our buttons. Bad outing.   "}{"Title":"Ashees  lake","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Powerful, delicate, strange. Slices of stories and one character. A film about love, deep refuges and truth. An ashes lake. It is not a film about the gay life in Nazi period. It is only invitation to choose. And to make the words basic facts. That is all. The movie, and the play, is more than a picture of a form of reality. It is more than a testimony, accusation or manifesto. It is reflection of many forms of silence. About the life as an old apple. About the evening without any morning. About the night of gestures and sleep of feelings. Bent is great for the traces after its end. Everybody may be Max or Horst or Rudy or the sadistic Nazi. It is simple. Cruel of simple. But this mirror of personal soul is more a game, more a joke. It is not a complicated film. In fact, it is another old Greek tragedy. A tragedy without end. Must see! "},{"Title":"fierce and pofound","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I suppose most, if not all, Nazi movies tackled the human condition- the inexorable disregard for life, the corruption of human integrity in one way or another. They are usually tear-jerking because they can't help it. The stories seem to be destined to be touching; the movies have 'profundity' written all over them. Sean Mathias' 'Bent' is not an exception. It is both potent and provocative, all accomplished without much aplomb and brouhaha.Unlike Schindler's List, this probably did not beckon to the viewers in droves. The tall, spruce, and handsome Max, for reasons unclear to me (partly because I'm a bit late in the movie, and mainly because I'm not good in deciphering the British accent), is in a country striking a deal with an equally snappily-dressed old man. Then he is lurking about and hiding in the forest with his geeky, glasses-wearing and increasingly edgy lover, a guy named Dunce. They got caught sleeping in the forest, and the next thing, they are on a train bound to a concentration camp. With them are other prisoners, one of them a gay who tipped Max off on how to survive. Max was told never to let on that he is gay, nor that he cares for his friend, or that he is even Dunce's friend. For the Nazi, the gays are the lowest form of beings. Interspersed with the scenes are shots of the train moving, evoking the steely, inhuman terror and tension happening inside. Dunce was beat up. He wore glasses, he didn't have a chance was the gay friend's verdict. It's not happening, it's not happening, Max chanted while he heard Dunce' s pitiful cries. When the Nazi police asked Max if he was a friend of Dunce, he vehemently denied. When they ordered him to beat his friend, he did so with riveting gusto. It seems that the requisite Nazi corruption-of-human-dignity has started.It's survival of the fittest from here on. After being reinforced in his conviction that he MUST follow the rules no matter what, Max bribed the guard to have the gay friend be stationed with him. Their work is classic absurdist-theatre fodder they walk bringing rocks from one end to the other. It's a completely pointless job, and it works well for the story (which, by the way, is based on an award-winning theatre play.)The pristine piano playing is hypnotically smooth, and fits just about perfectly. The acting is remarkable. Twice, the two lovers- who do not touch each other- reach mental telepathic- orgasm simultaneously. It is mildly amusing and erotic. When Max, equally world-weary but wiser between the two, initiates the mental sex, the gay friend croons amidst tears,You're not gentle... You've become hard... like them... It may well be an indictment against a society in the grip of hatred; a society that makes it hard for people to connect with one another, be they heterosexual or gays, in a set-up that compels one to be a 'robot' in order to survive. It may well be an attempt to show that the bond between two gay people, unacceptable as it is for going against the norm- will fail due to the macabre efforts of the powers-that- be. It could be a harrowing cry against insanity that a pointless life seems to lead us. It may well show that hypocrisy is name of the game when you're in power; Max performed 'blow job' on a guard to get medicines for his gay friend. ( The gay friend got jealous, and they had a lovers' quarrel). But when we have exhausted all the possible depth, significance and meaning of the movie, it is, in the end, just a poignant, powerful story about a guy who decided that life, without love, is not worth living after all.In the end, too, I think Max was redeemed, and the movie kept triteness at bay by NOT patronizing him.It's worthy of my praise and, I think, your time also. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking with good performances.....","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Movies that deal with concentration camp inmates are always difficult to watch.  For me, I have always preferred to learn about, experience, expose myself to if you will,  truly tragic, horrific historical storys by the written word. I guess it's my way of controlling the intake. I can put the book down more easily somehow than turning off a movie. Generally, as a rule, I do not want to watch a movie that deals with such excrutiatingly horrific situations. Drama is one thing, but films dealing with such subject matter as concentration camps is certainly not something I'm going to want to watch. Anyway, that being said, I did take BENT out of the library and watch it, all the way through to the end. Would I want to watch the film a second time? No, I would not. Not because the film wasn't well constructed or written or acted, but simply because I find the subject matter too morose and grave. But as a film, it was moving and had a singular story to tell that is not usually presented, that being the persecution of homosexuals under the Nazi regime during WWII.  If you're a particular fan of any of the actors in the film, the performances in this film will certainly not let you down.  "},{"Title":"An Unusual Depiction of Persecutions In Nazi Germany","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Its always the Jew's travail I  hear about concerning the Nazi Germany Period, but other GROUPS apparently got treated miserably as well, and this movie deals with one of them.Pathos, tremendous camera action (black/white & technicolor), superb character acting, excellent thematic development and flow, and perfect music accompaniment.I will see it again. "},{"Title":"Mick Jagger is the only reason to see it","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" As I understand it, Bent was originally a stage production in London. I don't know how the stage production was, but the movie version doesn't come out as good as it could have. Portraying a gay man (Clive Owen) in Nazi Germany pretending to be Jewish and meeting another gay man in Dachau, the movie never really develops anything as much as it could. In fact, it seems like the movie never really looks thoroughly at what the Nazis were doing. Mick Jagger, playing a transvestite, is really the only reason to see the movie.So, they probably had good intentions with this movie, but they never did with it what they could have. The whole thing comes out pretty muddled. Also starring Ian McKellen. "},{"Title":"Pretentious Rubbish","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  If like me you live in Britain and stay up late you often find obscure films being shown on Channel 4 . One night I stayed up and by chance watched BENT. After I watched I realised I should try going to bed earlyBENT  starts off bizarrely with transvestites parading around one of which is Sir Mick Jagger so I was expecting a sort of camp version of CABARET , but explicit scenes of gay sex followed and after that the film descended into a very pretentious and obvioulsy stage based drama where Clive Owen looks grim faced and keeps repeating  This can`t be happening  over and over again . And despite what other reviewers have said about this film I found myself feeling nothing except terminal boredom .In short this is the type of film that ruins the British film industry but which Britain continues to make despite a very limited market . And no I`m not being homophobic . If the characters had been , Jews , Slavs , trade unionists , communists or any other type of victim of Nazism I would still have hated this film   "},{"Title":"I must agree with Jimbo -- too pretentious and stagey, but","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" ... that means we can enjoy the fluff all the more!  Jude Law more nude scenes!  Rupert Graves you usually look good in anything (or nothing!), but  BLACK  is _tres_ _commes_ on you! Mick Jagger Greta, dahling you were mah-velous singing Streets of Berlin!  We loved it!  Dachau you should be ashamed of yourself!  When a body sees a body a-comin' through the rocks (or DOESN'T see it, as the case may be), you should not admit impediment to the marriage of true minds.  Sham "},{"Title":"Ummm....NO!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Lets just reflect for a minute....the story made a potentially sad and heart warming story into the greatest farce (PRE-Jacob the Liar).  I mean first of all we have the side splitting scene where Mick Jagger comes down as the Lady of the Night and sings in drag...Nice Legs by the way.  Then we have the dancer who needed to be bitch slapped til last thursday when he kept whining about his Dancing Lessons and how he wants to be a dancer!  Then Horst has his identity crisis and finally deals with it!  Good God!  And where was JUDE LAW!?!?!?! "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  There's nothing wrong with yet another film about the Holocaust.  When done well, (Schindler's List, Life is Beautiful) this genre seems quite valid. But when done badly, you ask yourself, When are they going to make a movie about the Holocaust from Hitler's dog's point of view?  The opening scene was all too reminiscent of Cabaret, which this film quite obviously draws major inspiration.  After the first scene, I felt like taking the movie out and putting in Cabaret, but I stuck it out.  Only to see two men orgasm while talking dirty, when in the distance you imagine babies being shot and children being gassed.  What they were trying to accomplish with this movie, I do not know.  I do know it was a lousy way to use my free movie credit at Midtown Video. "},{"Title":"I was expecting a good story...","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The premise grabbed me; it is about a gay man sent to the concentration camps during WWII. I was expecting some really good things from it; as a gay guy looking for gay entertainment, I highly dislike movies that assume gay people must want to see lots of sex, or stories about AIDs. I figured this would be something far different from that kind of garbage.To say I was disappointed would be an understatement; it's a bad sign when I wished the SS would just shoot the main character and make it a movie about his boyfriend instead! I despised the main character...he was everything I could possibly dislike about a person all rolled up into one.He's a multi-time cheater on the same person, a coke-head, a jerk, very promiscuous, makes (unwelcome) decisions for other people...throw in some domestic abuse and you've just about covered it.He's someone I'd be ashamed to know...needless to say, it was impossible to sympathize with his wretched character. And I can't say I'm happy with the clear stereotypes of gay life being portrayed from the very beginning; they were horribly unflattering, and pretty much assume we're all drugged up club boi's. In the end, this was just another gay sex movie, only it had what should have been a serious setting that could have made an important point. It failed. "}{"Title":"Yetch!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I stopped watching this movie during the train ride to Dachau. It is a completely amoral film, and not because it shows amorality. Jagger, whom everyone is so crazy about, turns the two lovers in for money. No one is outraged. Then the Nazi makes the protagonist beat his lover, to whom he had declared his love only hours before. No one is outraged. We are supposed to feel pity at the forced degradation, not contempt at the protagonist that holds life to be more dear than dignity. I would have, and I swear to it, beaten the Nazi to a pulp, knowing that I would be killed. Death is a small price to pay for keeping your dignity. The protagonist collaborated with the Nazis in beating his lover! Where is the outrage? He's as bad as they! Then, I am told, he is redeemed by love,  at the camp. I don't think so. Some things cannot be forgiven and forgotten so easily.  Antonio "},{"Title":"Too forced","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Sadly, though this film is only 1hr 45min, it feels like watching Ted Turner's Gods & Generals in slow motion.It's about as enjoyable as dental surgery.The main issue I have with a lot of gay cinema is that it places the gay male into one of two categories The Clown or The Victim.This film obviously takes the victim route, and even in the context of the subject matter, the film still needs to pander for the audience's sympathy. And ultimately, that pandering feels manipulative & it just distances the viewer from the material.The films seems more concerned with eliciting sympathy through contrived plot devices & Schindler's List-eque music than it is with building a strong character study.From what I understand, Burnt was originally a play in the 1980's. This most likely worked better then, given the 80's political environment. It may have served as a successful metaphor for the AIDS epidemic in the midst of the Reagan / Thatcher years.But the film was released in 1997, the Clinton / Blair years & the age of safe sex, so the political relevance is sadly missing, and the film just doesn't really click (for me at least.) So it doesn't really work as a historical analogy, which may be attributed to its original success.I highly recommend Marcelo Pineyro's Burnt Money as a film which successfully manages to break genre conventions. Rather than have the plot exist within the framework of homosexuality, homosexuality exists within the framework of the plot, therefore it works successfully within several genres. But most importantly, it doesn't use victimization to propel itself.And though Clive Owen is easy on the eyes, it's not enough to rescue the film's frustratingly slow pace or often cliched dialogue.And seeing Mick Jagger in drag doesn't exactly help the situation either. "}]